ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e274	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Thea Kweinen is dead, 85 years old. Thea Kweinden was born on 4 June 1930 in Harstad. After graduating artium in 1949 and the Secretary of Oslo School of Commerce in 1950, she worked a few years in bookstores before taking the bookstore school in 1953. After that, she worked for many years as a bookstore assistant and as a secretary in law stores. Thea Kübenn lived most of her life in Blackland, where she at the same time marked herself as a social enthusiast, among others. with involvement in the Sortland People's Library Collection and in the Local Red Cross Association. She also participated in local politics and represented the Right in Blackland Municipal Government and Presidency for several periods. For a long time she was a member of Nordland Højre's county government, and from 1975 to 1981 she was Vice President of the Norwegian National Broadcasting Board. Thea Kweinden was the first representative of Nordland in the 1981–84 ageing period and met regularly at Stortinget throughout the period. In the fall of 1985, she was elected as a permanent representative. She was re-elected in 1989, but chose to retire in 1993 to get more time for the family. At Stortinget, she was first a member of the Church and Education Committee and then of the Consumer and Administrative Committee. From 1989 to 1993, she was a member of the Social Committee. During this period she was also a member of the Right Group Board. Thea Kweinden was a member of the Norwegian Council of Stortinget's delegation throughout all his major years and actively participated in Nordic cooperation. She was primarily known as a social politician, but she also engaged in school policy and in a wide range of issues of interest to North Norway. For many years she was a driving force in the work of developing higher education in the northern part of the country. Thea Kwenjen enjoyed great respect in all political camps. She worked hard on the issues and was always open to listen to other people's arguments. She was wise, witty, kind, and caring. The Storting reminds Thea Kweinden of her work in Stortinget and shines peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e295	The representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Jenny Klinge, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Eirik Sivertsen and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen For Akershus County: Thore Vestby and Anne Odenmarck For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen and Monica Hauge Stiansen For the states of Hedmark: Rangdi Krogstad and Bersvend Salbu For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Jonny Finstad For Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal For Sogn and Fjordane County: Tor Bremer For the North Trondelag County: Gunnar Viken For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen from 13 June to 17 June to take part in the Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Ulan-Ude, Russia from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Anna Ljunggren from 13 June until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Hadia Tajik on Monday 13 June from the Progress Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Helge Thorheim on Monday 13 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften and Tor Arne Bell LjunggrenFor the county of Oslo: Inger Helene VaatenFor the county of Rogaland: Kari Raustein
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e423	Tone-Helen Toften, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, Inger Helene Vaaten and Kari Raustein are present and will take the seat. Representative Karianne O. Tung will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e428	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Magne Rommetveit, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Tone-Helen Toften, Marianne Aasen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself present a proposal for a representative on a national vocational competence centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e433	The representative, Mr Rommetveit, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e436	On behalf of Kjell-Idar Juvik, Else-May Botten, Kari Henriksen, Gunvor Eldegard and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for better maritime safety for recreational boaters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e441	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the proceedings of the Finance Committee, Case No. 1–6 has been completed, and then total voting on cases 7–41 at the end of today’s meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is then deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e487	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Green 10 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and up to six rows with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the President gives the floor to Irene Johansen, who is the case-rapporteur in case No. 1-3, the representative Mr Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e500	On 10 May, the formal procedure for the largest transfer of sovereignty we have had in Norway since 1992. It is the second time in the history of our country that we use § 115, former § 93. It shows the seriousness of the matter we are going to deal with. After the hearing, there have been significant counter-conceptions that we in the Centre Party consider further justifying a postponement of the examination of this case. Professor Eivind Smith, Chief Consultant of Constitutional Affairs and the country's leading expert, said: ‘The solution to the government wants to bring the Storting on is most of a purely formalisation of the requirements for the transfer of authority in the Constitution.’ He said that on May 24. On 28 May, we could read – after hearing both Elisabeth Aspaker and Siv Jensen talk about the fact that there should be real assessments in ESA – that there is only one man who should sit and make up ESA's assessments against the huge EU system of over 600 employees. It confirms that there are pure copy decisions, and that there is a circumvention of the Constitution, what we are now being invited to do. In addition, we have been informed after the hearing that Iceland is going to spend longer, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what is going to happen in Everything, and that the time pressure that the government has put on the Storting is no longer valid, because the government has been very clear in its advice to the Committee that it needs to be speeded up. Following the hearing, the chairperson of the Financial Committee has also made a proposal that this should be subject to a constitutional assessment and that the Court be asked to do so. A new information is also that the management of the Committee considers this to be irresponsible. In terms of content, more and more counter-representations have also emerged. On 2 June we could read that Kenneth Harr, financial regulator in Brussels, strongly warned against what is now happening. The proposition says that this is about regulation, but as he said, everything is about deregulation – that is, the opposite of what is in the proposition. Member of the Norwegian Financial Crisis Committee, Erik S. Reinert, has asked significant questions whether we could do what the Norwegian State did in the early 1990s to take over Norwegian banks in a crisis situation, or what we did in 2008. We have also not been informed whether the counter performances are correct or wrong, but there are very heavy counter performances, which should be illuminated before a final decision is made. In large cases, Stortinget usually takes a good time. You invite to the hearing, you get the counter-conceptions, and you're safe on the decision you're making. But in the biggest case we have chosen to rush it through. We invited to the hearing on a Tuesday, which was held on Thursday. It wasn't possible for people to sign up. There were people who were called and encouraged there and then. It went so fast that it was not possible to get the counter-representations properly. As a result of the proceedings, the country's heaviest experts have become increasingly anti-representatives. Eivind Smith has warned against it, the legal environment at the University of Bergen has warned against it, the legal environment at the University of Tromsø has warned against it. So the heaviest legal environments have warned that this can be unconstitutional, and we are getting more and more counter-representations from the fiscal environments in Norway as well. Therefore, I ask that we have better time to deal with the matter, that we postpone it, so that the Storting knows what it is doing, and so that we get an informed and good debate before we have to make a final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e529	I believe that the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, has tabled a postponement proposal. It should then be dealt with before we go to the matter itself. I will open a round of articles on the postponement proposal. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen is the first to register.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e534	Since SV is together with the Christian People's Party in the desire to ask the government to resume negotiations with the EU on the EU's financial supervisory authorities and given that it is unlikely to have a majority today, SV will subsidize the Central Party's wish to postpone the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e539	The Labour Party will not support a postponement of the case. We believe that the matter was sent to Stortinget within the time limit that Stortinget had set, 15 April, so that the government could wait for it to be dealt with in the spring session. If the Committee were to spend a longer period of time, it was an assessment matter, but it was a unanimous committee that decided to examine it now, with the exception of the Centre Party. For the examination of the matter in the committee, I would like to note that I was elected as rapporteur on 26 April, and we decided to consult on 4 May, which was announced on 6 May. So it's been a little longer than the previous speaker said. We believe that the matter is well explained in the proposition. The main features of the solution we are going to deal with today are also well known from before, so the Workers' Party is going in to deal with the matter today and is opposed to the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e546	I have so much sympathy for the Battle of Vedum, but there are some points I do not agree with him in. We have had a thorough examination of the matter in the committee, but I understand that someone wants more time, or perhaps more correctly: the centre party wants others to have more time in this matter. I feel that we really had this debate on Friday. Then we had questions related to exactly the same thing, and we now have to note that there was no majority for any of the proposals that were then put forward, from both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. We have therefore come to a somewhat different conclusion than the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, because as I said, we want the government to go back to the negotiating table, and they should do so as soon as possible. We are prepared to deal with the matter now, but it is subject to the condition that it went as it went on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e553	The issue to be addressed by the Stortinget today, which concerns Norwegian links to EU financial supervision, has in fact a long history, and a long process has taken place, which actually started in 2009. The matter has been thoroughly elucidated. It has been thoroughly legalised. That is why it is the attitude of the Advance Party that we want to deal with the matter today. So we are going to vote against the proposal to postpone the debate. There's reason to wonder if a postponement would really change some of the parties' positions. There's very little to indicate. The probability of that is so to say not present, so we recommend that we get a treatment and a decision in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e560	I have great respect for the claim that the model proposed by the government, which is to be handled today, is a constitutional design and thus challenges Section 115 of the Constitution. However, the urgency of the matter and the lack of careful assessment are both unreasonably and unjustly claims. The paradox is that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum himself has been sitting in a government that spent three years using considerable resources to find a solution to this matter – a work that today's government has continued. The case has been submitted to the Stortinget several times a year since 2010, both in the Financial Market Communication, in the State Budget, through the distributions to the European Minister and in the European Selection Board. And even though the cases will inevitably lead to difficult assessments, I have difficulty seeing that someone achieves something to postpone her. For this reason, the Left does not vote for the postponing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e567	Let me also say, for the sake of order, that we are going to vote against the postponement proposal. The reason, very briefly, is that this case has been known for the Storting for six years – through communications in the Financial Market Communication, through reference in the budgets. And the examination in the committee, in my experience, is not irresponsible in any way. We've had a hearing, we've got good insights, and the committee has had full opportunity to deal with this as both major and minor issues in this house are to be dealt with. I think there are few points of view to say that this will not be a proper treatment. That is why we will vote against the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e574	Several have not asked for the word to comment on the postponement proposal, and we call voting. Voting on postponement proposals in case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e581	Today, we are considering the position of the Financial Committee on Prop. 100 S for 2015–2016, Prop. 101 S for 2015-2016 and Prop. 127 L for 2015-2016. These propositions concern the proposals made by the government on how the EU system of financial supervision and a selection of other acts can be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, that this proposal requires the transfer of powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority and the EFTA Court in compliance with the Basic Law § 115, proposals for amendment to the EEA Agreement as a consequence, and proposals for a new law on EU financial supervision. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in setting up and handling the matter. There is a thorough explanation of the matter in the propositions. I will examine some aspects of the matter and the public debate on it, and present the majority position of the Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the Progress Party, and of the Labour Party. I expect the minority to explain their vision. The financial crisis in 2008 was international and revealed that many banks in a number of countries were not sufficiently sound. Many called for joint international regulation and supervision of banks and financial industries. In 2010, the EU Member States decided to set up a new common system of financial supervision, consisting of national financial supervision and four new institutions, in order to strengthen the soundness and consistency of regulatory application and supervision of the European financial industry. This is the European Banking Authority and the European Systemic Risk Board. [[ESMA]] [[ESRB]] Until 2010, the EU has cooperated on joint supervision between national financial regulators, where Norwegian financial regulators have also participated. It has also participated as an observer in the new financial supervision system from 2010. It has allowed the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to influence and intervene in common legislation applicable to the European market, where Norwegian banks and financial institutions participate in the EEA Agreement on the same footing as European financial activities. In order for competition conditions to remain the same for all those involved in the internal market, including in the financial field, the EU requires the EEA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein to be subject to the same requirements and rules in the area of financial supervision as EU countries. The new EU system of financial supervision is therefore to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Negotiations have been in progress between the EU and EEA countries since the establishment of the Financial Supervision System, on how this can be done. The negotiations were concluded in October 2014 and the government proposes the negotiated solution. The Government proposes that Norway join the EU system of financial supervision through the existing two-pillar structure of the EEA Agreement and give the EFTA Surveillance Authority the responsibility for monitoring and action and the EFTA Court jurisdiction on the EEA/EFTA side. This includes, inter alia: that ESA can take binding decisions against the financial supervision and financial institutions of the EEA/EFTA countries and that the financial supervision of the EEA/EFTA countries remains fully involved in the supervisory authorities of the EU but without voting rights, as they have done informally since their establishment in 2011. The solution also means that ESA has the right to participate in EU supervisory authorities without the right to vote, and vice versa. The negotiated solution therefore implies that the Norwegian financial supervision is still to be overseen by the Norwegian financial institutions, while ESA monitors compliance with common rules on financial supervision, as ESA does in other areas covered by the EEA Agreement. In addition, ESA may take measures directly against financial institutions in certain areas and the EFTA Court is given jurisdiction. The majority of the Committee endorses the negotiated solution. Some counter-representations that have been promoted against the negotiated solution include: that the authority entrusted to the EFTA Surveillance Authority is only a sandeel. I will refer to the government's clarification in Chapter 9 of the Proposition. ‘The EFTA Surveillance Authority shall, when taking binding decisions, base its decision on a draft of the relevant EU supervisory authority. Such a draft is of a non-binding nature and does not constitute in itself an exercise of powers vis-à-vis private actors in the EEA/EFTA countries. The draft EU Supervisory Authority is also not legally binding on the EFTA Surveillance Authority». A point with a single market, which Norway is part of by virtue of the EEA Agreement, is that all participants experience a level playing field in that market. It is also a point that common conditions and rules are followed and that supervision and follow-up are also reasonably similar. It should therefore not be surprising that ESA should base itself on draft EU supervisory authorities when making decisions vis-à-vis financial institutions or financial supervision. Nevertheless, the fact that ESA is legally free is an important clarification. It is also claimed that Norwegian financial supervision cannot now adopt stricter rules for Norwegian banks and the Norwegian financial sector than the EU has. I'm not going to express myself on a general basis about how this will be, but as of today, it is at least so that they can. One thing that has been mentioned in particular: Today's economy on 4 April 2016, which concerns new capital requirements for Norwegian pension funds, shows that. Here, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has adopted stricter legislation for Norwegian pension funds than the common rules adopted in the EU by the new Financial Supervision System, by ensuring that pension funds and life insurance companies are treated in the same way with regard to soundness rules, which the pension funds, businesses and members believe can provide lower pensions to members and higher pension costs for businesses, according to the paper. This shows that at least the way it works today, it can do so, and I have no reason to believe that it will be different in the future, provided that there are minimum rules. It is also argued that Norwegian financial institutions have not encountered any problems on the European market since the establishment of their financial supervision by the EU and therefore there is no urgency in clarifying it. Financial supervision in the EU entered into force in 2010/2011. Under the EEA Agreement, new legislation shall be incorporated into the EEA Agreement no later than six months after its entry into force in the EU. Negotiations have been in progress since 2010. According to the proposal, a large number of acts are not incorporated into the EEA Agreement pending a solution. This means that there is a growing gap between obligations and rights between EU and EEA countries. Where new legislation is not implemented in the EEA Agreement, there may subsequently be questions as to how to proceed with the EEA Agreement and as stated in the proposal: ‘Without the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the acts outstanding, it will in the long term be difficult to maintain functioning EEA cooperation for financial services.’ This creates uncertainty about the future of the EEA Agreement. We don't think that's what we're doing. Trade is important for Norway and the Norwegian economy. Trade creates jobs, which is the basis for us being able to build up the welfare state that we know today. Over 80 pst. Norway’s exports go to EU countries. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure the EEA Agreement in further cooperation with the EU and to contribute to the continued access of the financial industry and other industries to the European market on an equal footing with European industries. It is important for industry, and it is important for Norway. The working party believes that this solution ensures it. So the relationship to the Constitution. The proposal involves the transfer of monitoring and action powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA and jurisdiction to the EFTA Court. This transfer of authority is considered by the government to be more than negligible, and therefore consent of the Storting is requested in accordance with the Basic Law § 115. Paragraph 115 of the Constitution, before § 93, was previously used once, when the EEA Agreement was concluded in 1992 and competence was transferred to ESA and the EFTA Court in the field of competition. It is now proposed that powers be transferred to the same institutions in the field of financial supervision. The constitutional side of the case is discussed in detail in Prop. 100 S, where assessments of the transfer of powers to ESA and the EFTA Court of Justice by the Legal Service have been submitted in connection with the participation in the European System of Financial Supervisors. As is known, the Legal Service provides its legal professional judgements as an expert body independent of political leadership. To this end, the procedure has been applied in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law in all cases where the consent of the Stortinge has been obtained for Norway's adoption of EEA Committee decisions incorporating new legal acts with adaptations to the EEA Agreement involving transfer of powers, as the threshold of under-interventionary transfer of authority has not been considered to be exceeded. That's what Prop shows. 100 S that the Ministry of Finance has obtained a total of four assessments of the constitutional conditions of the various models that have emerged in the negotiations on the EEA adaptation, on which they have been submitted. The law department's assessments are therefore that parts of the transfer of authority in the financial field are more than minor and therefore recommend that the matter be dealt with in accordance with the Basic Law, § 115, which requires a majority of three-quarters. However, it is the Storting itself that assesses whether this is in line with the provisions of the Constitution and what paragraph the case should be dealt with after. But there is a long and secure tradition that the Storting builds its assessments on the basis of which the government provides, and the government is constitutionally responsible for the accuracy and coverage of the information provided. The institutional aspects of this matter have also been part of the proceedings of the Financial Committee and of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Financial Committee had an in-depth consultation on the matter, where these issues were also well-explained. The majority support the government's assessment. Finally, some believe that Storting should take longer to deal with this matter. We were also in the pre-treatment area today. Why the matter was submitted by the government for treatment in Stortinget so late in the spring session, the government itself has to answer. However, the matter was sent to Stortinget within the time limit set by Stortinget, on 15 April, so that the government can wait for the matter to be dealt with in the spring session. If the Committee were to spend a longer period of time, it was an assessment matter, but it was a unanimous committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, which decided to examine it now. There is also no new and unknown matter. It has been known and discussed since the establishment of the European System of Financial Supervision in 2010, when it was considered to be EEA-relevant. Negotiations between the EEA countries and the EU have been ongoing for the same period, and the Storting has been regularly informed about progress, through financial market notifications, state budgets, statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the EU/EEA and in the meetings of the European Commission, both the previous and the current government. At the meeting of the European Committee on 13 October 2014, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Europe reviewed the main features of the solution we are discussing here today, that it is within the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement, and that it involves the transfer of powers in some areas to ESA and the EFTA Court, which require the consent of the United Kingdom by a three-quarters majority, as stated. The Constitution § 115. The size has also been continuously informed about the matter, which started under the previous government, which has been important to us in the treatment of it. It is underlined in the proposition that the government does not want Norway to delay the entry into force of the Regulations and has therefore decided to seek the consent of the Storting before the decision is taken by the EEA Committee. The financial industry also stressed in the hearing that it is important to consider the matter now in order not to delay its entry into force. The Labour Party is pleased that we have agreed with the EU and the other EEA countries on a proposal for the implementation of the financial supervision system in the internal market and is in favour of the negotiated solution. With this I present the position of the Financial Committee in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e641	Thank you to the rapporteur for the work of the Committee. The rapporteur was concerned that, as she said, this was not a legally binding decision taken in respect of the position of Norway. At the same time, it is clear that many will claim that what is adopted in the European Union, we have to deal with it in a similar way. I quote from the proposition: ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU supervisory authority, the EFTA Surveillance Authority will take a similar or approximate equivalent decision.’;» Does the representative Johansen think that this gives Norway freedom, or does she think that we are fundamentally subject to what the EU might come up with on these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e653	Norway has concluded the EEA Agreement, which gives Norwegian industry, Norwegian banks and Norwegian financial industries access to the European market on an equal footing with European banks, financial industries and other industries. Once we've done that, there are common rules for competition. There will be common rules for the financial area in that market. Then I think it should just be missing that there is no common supervision that those rules are being followed. What we're doing now is joining a common system of financial supervision in that market. It is clarified in the proposal that ESA should base itself on an EU draft when a decision is to be taken, if appropriate, but that it is not legally binding. We're dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e658	The Joint Declaration between the Contracting Parties mentioned in the Proposition is quite clear. The authority that Hans Olav Syversen referred to instead shall – I can quote what is stated in the Joint Declaration – ‘act independently, objectively and in a non-discriminatory manner exclusively in the interest of the Union’. Then my question to Irene Johansen is: Is Irene Johansen sure that what is in the Union's interest at any time is in Norway's interest? It is a quite different economy and a different regulatory tradition in Norway than in many other European countries. So now we're just going to be subject to it, and – as it says – ‘only in the interests of the Union’? Is the Workers' Party sure that what is in the Union's interest at all times is in Norway's interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e665	Norway is not a member of the EU, but we have an agreement with the EU on access to a single market through the EEA Agreement. Through it, we have previously given authority to a structure – the EEA Agreement, ESA and the EFTA Court – that ensures that Norway adheres to the common rules applicable in the field of competition. Now we're going to give power to the same financial structure. We are still not a member of the EU, but we have an EEA agreement that is in Norway's interest to have, I believe. I am sure that when it comes to the proposition that ESA and the EFTA Court should base their joint legislation, draft decisions coming from the EU, but that it is not legally binding on Norway, it is that there can also be a separate assessment in ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e670	In his statement, the rapporteur said that this matter would not have any consequences for Norway's ability to regulate the financial sector as strictly as we would like to be, but in the Political Quarter on 30 May this year, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Tore Vamraak, said: ‘Having common European regulation is in itself positive, but the back of the medal is, of course, that we are not free to introduce as strict regulations as we would like from the Norwegian side.’ My question is, who is right? Is it the case rapporteur, or is it the State Secretary?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e680	I underlined in my post that I could not express myself on a general basis on that possibility, but that at least so far we have been able to have stricter rules than in the EU. I referred to the Financial Supervisory Authority’s proposal to have stricter rules on claims for pension funds than the EU has. I have no reason to believe anything but that it will also be able to function like this in some areas, after we have made this decision today. It depends on the type of decision taken in the EU, whether it is open for adaptation, so-called minimum decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e685	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e688	‘The financial crisis clearly showed how disastrous the consequences can be for a country if there is no control of the financial market. In a number of European countries, hundreds of thousands of people experienced job losses. Fortunately, Norway managed better through the latest financial crisis than most EU countries. In Norway, we learned from the experience of the banking crisis 25 years ago. We know how important it is with good supervision and supervision of the banks in the country. This was highlighted by the Financial Crisis Committee, which showed the importance of Norway’s choice to operate with stricter rules than the EU system.’ So begins a chronicle written by the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, published at the NRK Opinion yesterday. And that's how far I agree. Therefore, Norway also has stricter capital requirements and regulations than many locations in the EU. We will also continue to do so as we strengthen the supervision of financial markets through a link with the EU financial supervision. Thus, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority is not to be placed under the different financial supervision of the EU, but to be linked to supervisory practices that allow the control and supervision of a cross-border financial market, where Norwegian authorities may fall short. The alarming fact is that when the financial crisis developed in Europe, two of the three parties in government are now in favour of better supervision, transparency and control of financial markets. I had actually thought that it would make a little more impression to have to provide bank guarantees for 350 billion. kr through government bonds and a crisis package of 25 billion. kr, but obviously not. Despite Norway's good control and supervision of the banks, the financial crisis flourished in our markets, precisely because the financial markets are international. That is why we want a link with the European supervisory authorities. Norwegian securities are currently traded at European-wide marketplaces, even outside the control of Norwegian supervisory authorities. Norwegian financial corporations are customers of and suppliers of international capital markets. New EU regulations and supervision will thus safeguard Norwegian interests in Europe when Norway itself does not have the power to do so. But of course, it requires that we participate in the cooperation on enhanced supervision in our most important market. A Norwegian financial market does not function well without good and continuous access to the international capital market. At present, more than 180 legal acts are pending in Norway pending a solution for international supervisory cooperation. For each year there has been a greater gap between the commitments and the rights of the EU and EFTA countries. If this does not take place, we will lose a homogeneous internal market in the EEA for financial services. A no to well-functioning international regulation and supervision of the financial industry does not serve Norwegian interests. I would like to take a few examples of issues where the link to EU financial supervision will play a role. There is regulation of credit rating agencies, OTC derivatives and short selling. All three were assessed as central to the development of the financial crisis. The credit rating agencies were considered to have contributed to the crisis by underestimating the credit risk of structured credit instruments and by not adjusting the assessments when the market changed. Therefore, a detailed regulation is now in place to ensure the independence of credit rating agencies, improve the quality of credit ratings, increase transparency and provide an effective framework for registration and supervision. Supervision has been added to the European Securities and Markets Authority, ESMA. I'm in favour of this control. This is the Center Party and the SV against. I would encourage them to make a better proposal for the regulation and control of credit rating agencies. Before the financial crisis, Lehman Brothers and AIG were two of the largest derivatives trading actors. One went as a known bankruptcy, the other had to be saved by the taxpayers. Therefore, following the financial crisis, there was a broad consensus that the huge market for derivatives had to be better regulated, and already at the G20 meeting in 2009, Member States agreed that trading in OTC, or ‘over the counter’ derivatives, would go through a central counterparty that would be subject to both reporting obligations and capital requirements. The new regulations have contributed to both a reduction in systemic risk and a reduction in the risk of a party failing to meet its obligations. For Norway, this means an obligation to report OTC derivative contracts to a registered trade repository and an obligation to establish risk mitigation measures against OTC derivative contracts not managed by a CCP. This monitoring is carried out in cooperation with national authorities and the European Union’s oversight. We want to participate in supervisory cooperation because the financial market is international, and it is not only useful to have Norwegian financial supervision on one side of the transaction if it cannot be fully followed through. So the right wants more control over the international financial market than SV. My last example is short sales, which usually means the sale of a financial instrument that the seller does not own at the time the sale agreement is concluded. Short sales may help balance the market and mitigate the consequences of one-sided information. But during the financial crisis, trust between the banks and the banks was gone. The fear was great that the banks were unable to finance themselves, and many feared a so-called ‘run’, where depositors demand their money back immediately. In such a stressed market, short selling can seem very negative, and huge values can be erased in a short time due to market panic. In 2008, therefore, several countries introduced measures which varied in scope or prohibited the short sale of certain or all securities. The measures in the different countries were taken independently of each other based on national legislation. Experience from the financial crisis showed that these uncoordinated national measures were ineffective. This experience led to the introduction of uniform reporting obligations for a number of financial instruments through the Short Sale Regulation. The goal is, among others: increased transparency and reduced risk. National authorities will retain the possibility to prohibit or restrict certain types of short selling or similar other lawful transactions. However, in such cases it shall also ensure cooperation, on the one hand between national supervisory authorities and, on the other hand, between national authorities and ESMA. In particular, this Regulation is opposed to the Central Party, since, in a crisis situation, the EU supervisory authorities may intervene with the authorities of EU countries if they do not take action in a stressed market where large amounts may be lost. When we see how the financial crisis grew, also to countries with a stable and good economy, such as Norway in 2009, it is quite incomprehensible that someone can be against this. Only the crudest speculators in the financial market will benefit if Norway is outside this cooperation. So, of all the predators that the Center Party has chosen to protect, they choose international financial sharks. The EU wants sound and stable financial institutions and has put in place harmonised and strict regulation of financial markets to prevent the recurrence of the financial crisis. However, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules across the European market, there is a common European supervisory practice in place that oversees the supervisory authorities. It is related to this supervision we are now discussing in Stortinget. So this is not about for or against the EU, for or against the euro, Schengen or Norwegian border control. It is about the soundness of regulation and supervision of a cross-border financial market, where experience from the financial crisis shows that coordinated action, regulation and follow-up are necessary. The ESAs are not just a cornerstone of the EU’s response to the financial crisis. Strong and coordinated financial supervision is essential to preserve and further develop a single market for financial services. I have registered that someone thinks it is not urgent, but the work on finding a solution started six years ago, and for every single year, the number of acts has increased and thus spread between the commitments and the rights of the EU and EFTA countries. If this does not happen, we will lose a homogeneous internal market in the EEA for financial services. It's not right that this should be dealt with urgently. The case has been discussed and addressed in the Stortinget in all financial reports since 2009 and in the State budget in 2010, 2011, 2014, 2015 and 2016. It may be more important that the matter has been included in the presentations on important EU and EEA matters every year since this government joined, where the principles of the solution we are discussing today were presented as early as November 2014, with broad support at the time. From my knowledge to the opposition in this room, both the constructive and the other, I would think that this was something you wanted more of, not less of. This concerns the soundness of the regulation and supervision of a cross-border financial market, where experience shows that coordinated action, regulation and cross-border follow-up are necessary. It is only then to thank the rapporteur for a very good and thorough work on the matter and also the committee for the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e740	Both from the case spokesperson and from the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, it was stressed that Norway will be free to impose stricter requirements on our financial institutions even after Norway joins the EU’s financial supervision. In Political Quarter on 30 May this year, Secretary of State Vamraak said that having a common European regulation is in itself positive, but the back of the medal is of course that we are not free to introduce as strict regulations as we would like from the Norwegian side. Greeny, who led the programme, asked: Is it so that curious capital requirements for the banks, we must now put that away? The answer from Vamraak was: On the capital side, we are holding within the common guidelines drawn up by the EU. My question is: can Norway impose stricter requirements and stricter regulations on financial institutions and our banks after Norway joins EU financial supervision today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e751	Norway has been one of the countries that have adhered to EU guidelines and had the most stringent regulations in Europe. I have noticed that the Central Party in this debate believes that Norwegian special regulations are good. That's why I'm a little surprised that in e.g. the financial market notification just criticises the central party of the government for maintaining Norwegian special regulations, inter alia. weighting of municipal loans, introduction of SME rebates and new unweighted capital management requirements. The SME discount, which is not justified by actual risk conditions, could weaken the soundness of banks over time. This means that the Central Party, on the one hand, does not want regulation and, on the other hand, does not want the overall authority to reduce the risk of a new financial crisis. I would strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e756	I thank you for an answer that was not an answer, but an interpretation of a misinterpretation of the Central Party's policy. You can't do that without it. But I want an answer. And my question should be very clear and slow to read, because I'm talking about social issues -- it's not always an understanding question. Now I'm going to be very clear: Will Norway be free to introduce stricter regulations for financial institutions and banks after Norway has joined EU financial supervision today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e763	Norway today has some of the most stringent capital requirements in Europe, which we can maintain, but there will be changes to some of the requirements that we have introduced, such as: the deposit-guarantee scheme will be slightly modified. This will ensure – for once – a deposit guarantee scheme for small savers in the EU, while in Norway it will be somewhat reduced. There will be changes, but overall inclusion in the European Financial Supervision System will give so great values to Norway – and ensure us against a future financial crisis – that it is worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e768	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e771	The EEA Agreement was ratified by Stortinget on 16 October 1992. After two days of intense debate and strong contradictions, it became an overwhelming majority to link Norway to the single market in Europe. There was a far greater transfer of competence to the EFTA bodies than the realities of the issues currently being dealt with by the Storting on common rules for the financial market in Europe. Until recently, proposals for new investigations and assessments were also submitted at the time, but the Stortinget concluded that all aspects of the EEA Agreement had been thoroughly examined in order to take the decision to safeguard Norwegian interests linked to the European Community, which was also in strong development. Some claimed at the time that the Storting said yes to the ‘goods and services’ Europe by accepting the four freedoms as an absolute prerequisite for European economic cooperation. In 1994, Norway actually said no to political Europe, and a majority of the people did not want Norway to become a member of the EU. Now Norway has more than 20 years of experience with the EEA Agreement, and experience suggests that this agreement has served Norway’s interests very well. It currently ensures Norwegian enterprises and consumers access to a market many times larger than in 1992 — now with more than half a billion inhabitants. Uncertainty about the future and development of the EEA was prominent in the debate almost 24 years ago because the agreement could not be static but on the contrary provided for a dynamic adaptation to the development of new EU legislation, and not least Norway could be confronted with EU requirements that would not be fully compatible with its own Norwegian interests at all times. The challenges have arisen, and they have been solved continuously through political processes and influence for the benefit of Norway. The EEA Agreement has clauses allowing new areas to be included in the agreement, just as areas can be excluded. The arrangement provides for adaptation to the legal obligations applicable to the EEA/EFTA countries and procedures are in place to address such issues. The EEA Agreement has ensured Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry in general predictability and non-discrimination in the European market. In 1992 the Stortingen decided to give sovereignty to the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA and the EFTA Court in order to ensure the supervision and control of competition rules, public tender rules and State aid rules. ESA was given the opportunity to exercise direct authority over private legal entities in Norway in order to meet the requirements of free competition both for Norwegian and foreign actors – of course a major challenge for those seeking protectionism and regulation rather than free and dynamic competition on equal terms. The issues raised by Stortinget today do not concern EU membership or the transfer of Norwegian financial supervision to the EU, as attempted in less nuanced opinions on the network and in the media. Nor does it apply to or contrary to the EEA Agreement, even if a no can become a serious challenge to the agreement. It is essentially about how Norway should comply with its EEA obligations under the principles of cooperation. It is a complex and comprehensive area we are dealing with now, and I have great respect for the strong commitment in many environments, including those who are very dependent on Norway joining a common regulatory framework for the financial market in Europe. Both Finans Norway and the Finansförbundet have clearly expressed support for the solution negotiated by the government, while at the same time referring to the unfortunate aspects by saying no to common legislation. There is reason to stress that no-one claims that the internal market is closed for Norwegian financial institutions with immediate effect if we do not adhere to this legislation. However, 180 new legal acts are waiting for implementation in the EEA Agreement. If there is no solution to the issue of financial supervision, so that these acts can be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, we may risk gradually putting it out of play in the financial field. Norwegian financial institutions will benefit from continued access to the European market, and Norwegian consumers will benefit from Norwegian financial institutions being exposed to competition in Norway. Norway’s accession to the EU’s new financial market supervisory body has a long history, and it has been regularly reported back to the Stortingen on the negotiations with the EU. The process actually started in 2009 and there has been an expressed wish from Norwegian point of view that it would be appropriate to establish an adaptation in line with the two-pillar structure between the EU and the EFTA/EEA countries. Direct membership and voting rights of the EU Supervisory Body have been rejected by the EU because we are not a member. The government’s proposal does not imply the surrender of powers to the EU but the surrender of limited administrative and decision-making powers to EFTA bodies, where Norway is a dominant member. The decision-making competence is secondary and can only be used under certain conditions and in specific situations where national supervisory authorities have failed to fulfil their obligations under the supervision regulation. The draft decisions of the EU Supervisory Body shall be formally dealt with and adopted by ESA, but ESA is not legally obliged to accede to any decision. Disagreements need to be discussed in the EEA Committee between representatives of the EFTA countries and the European Commission, and decisions are anchored in agreement within the EEA Committee. It is therefore the ESA that is to take the formal decisions addressed to national authorities and to EEA/EFTA undertakings, based on drafts from the relevant supervisory authorities of the EU, and Norway is involved in their decision-making and preparatory work. It will continue to be the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority that supervises and controls Norwegian financial institutions and the Norwegian market, but in some demarcated areas ESA will be empowered to take decisions with direct consistency for Norwegian actors. The opposition to the EEA Agreement, and thus against the government's proposal to join the common financial market rules, pushes many lawyers and professors to their breasts. Of course, we need to listen to the expertise, but there is also considerable expertise – not least legal – that has designed the solution that is now recommended by the majority of the Committee. Professor Eivind Smith said to the Nations on 24 May this year that the government's proposal for treatment under the Constitution § 115 is a « bypassing the requirements of Grundlova». The same professor has characterised the EEA Agreement as a ‘constitutional disaster’, despite the fact that the Stortinge has ratified the agreement by a three-quarters majority. The Progress Party is in favour of the EEA Agreement, and we are therefore in favour of the solution that is now available from the Government. Cross-border supervision and control of financial markets are important and there is a need to ensure the same level of regulatory practice in order to ensure financial stability, protect Norwegian consumers and continue access to the European market for Norwegian financial industries. Economics are becoming increasingly global. With that, financial institutions must also become more global. This also allows problems in a financial company or financial market to have negative consequences in many countries. There is therefore a need for cross-border cooperation on regulation of the sector – it showed the financial crisis. Lack of international cooperation can easily mean poor or no regulation of the sector, and then we know from experience that the bill can easily be sent to taxpayers, including in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e797	It was a balanced post, I would say, from the figures of the Progress Party. What he did not come up with, which was part of the debate here on Friday, was the possible precedent for this decision. As we know, developments in the EU are increasing the use of this type of supervision. And the way in which Norwegian sovereignty waivers are made in this case, i.e. not voting rights in Norway matters, will easily become the EU's position on a number of other issues where EU supervision is on the steps. This may concern energy, telecommunications and data surveillance. The government writes on page 12 of the proposition: «Full participation without voting rights must be the objective throughout.» Is it also the view of the Progress Party that this will have the kind of precedent, and that is what we can count on in other supervisory matters as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e809	I have also recorded that the question of precedent and whether the treatment of this matter will create precedent for similar matters in the future has been quite prominent. The starting point of what the government writes in the proposition is that the EU does not want Norway or the EFTA countries to vote in the EU body, precisely because we are not full members. We must then find other ways of resolving this in order to join the legislation, and it is therefore important that we be able to establish a structure through the EFTA countries and through the EFTA body, as the government is now proposing. In my view and in the view of the Advance Party, there is no automatic way that this matter creates a precedent, because any similar matter must be subject to individual treatment in each case, both in government and up to the treatment of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e814	Let me quote from the proposition: ‘the European Supervisory Authority shall: [[...]] [[European Banking Authority]] Norway is not a member of the Union, thanks to the Norwegian people who have said no twice. Is the Progress Party now convinced that what is in the Union’s interest is in Norway’s interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e824	It would certainly be very naive to answer yes to that question, and he did not expect it either. It is clear that at times there will be slightly different perceptions of what is the Union interest versus what is Norway’s interest. It is therefore important to strengthen cooperation in the EEA area, to strengthen cooperation between EFTA countries, to establish this approach to the EU’s financial supervision system and common rules for the European financial market, through the EFTA body, as we know before, and which has a similar role for all other areas regulated by the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e830	Are the members of the Advance Party in Stortinget released in votes on the waiver of sovereignty to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e835	I thank you for that question. Just to correct a small, wrong premise: this is not a matter of renunciation of sovereignty to the EU. This is a transfer of administrative and decision-making powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority and the EFTA Court. The question of exemption has not been a subject of the Progress Party. We have considered the matter thoroughly, and we have joined in what is the proposal and the recommendation of the government, and which appears in the majority vote of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e842	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e845	The financial crisis hit the EU hard. The experience in many EU countries was that the regulation and supervision of banks and financial institutions were too weak. These included: In Norway, probably with a background to the crisis we had at the end of the 1980s, it is significantly weaker than in Norway. Therefore, in the wake of the crisis, the EU has proposed stricter financial market regulation and a new common financial supervision. Many of the new regulations are EEA-relevant and have been introduced in Norway, largely without challenges for our part. However, Norway’s role in EU financial supervision has been a demanding matter for the Norwegian authorities, and it has been a demanding matter for this government, as it was for the previous government. For five years Norway has been negotiating with the EU. The reason why the negotiations have taken so long is, of course, that the EU has been very reluctant to give what we believe to have been right, from Norway’s point of view. Getting the full vote on the new financial supervision was not realistic since we are not a member of the EU. However, we have fought for a plan B which would imply voting rights for the financial supervision of EFTA States in matters affecting the authorities and market actors of the EFTA States. It has been important from the Christian People's Party to seek a solution along that very axis – both because it would have maintained a real influence far more than what we are now facing, and because it would have been much more in line with the Constitution § 115, which requires Norwegian participation in international bodies to which we give sovereignty. It would have ensured Norwegian influence over decisions in the EU’s financial supervision affecting Norway and thus greater opportunities for more accurate and better decisions adapted to the situation in Norway and I would say our strict and successful supervisory tradition here in the country. To date, this has not been possible for the EU to participate. The result is a solution that in some areas places Norwegian financial supervision under EU supervisory bodies, practically without Norwegian voting rights. A design has been made in which all decisions in Norwegian cases will be formally taken by the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA, but in practice the ESA will have no room for action relevant to taking decisions other than those of the EU Financial Supervision. The Government's proposal involves a waiver of sovereignty that is more than minor in scope, as stated in the Constitution. The proposal therefore also requires the agreement of three-quarters of the representatives of the Storting. However, I would like to give the government credit for so clearly recommending such a method of progress and not trying to hide behind what has been done in many other contexts, namely that this is part of the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law, i.e. that the waiver of sovereignty that you might have to make does not have a particularly influential effect. In this way, I commend the government for the procedure you have chosen constitutionally. This argues, in our opinion, that the proposed solution is not accepted. We have promoted a proposal that is referred to, and which I also mention: ‘The Government requests the resumption of negotiations with the EU on EU financial supervisory authorities with a view to obtaining Norwegian voting rights in matters relating to Norway.’ Why is this also important constitutional? There is great reason to believe that this decision today will create a precedent for other supervision. EU financial supervision is part of a general trend in the EU towards increased use of supervision in both the further development and enforcement of rules in the internal market. These inspections are increasingly given the competence to take decisions that are binding on the authorities and businesses of the Member States. The manner in which Norwegian sovereignty waivers are made in this case, i.e. no Norwegian voting rights in matters relating to Norway, will very easily become the EU’s position in a number of future cases. There are other EU supervision on the steps in terms of both energy, telecommunications and data supervision. This has also been confirmed by the government. In the proposition on page 12, the government mentions this. You write: «Full participation without voting rights must be the objective throughout.» Then I record that the representative, on behalf of the Progress Party, expressed a different view now, that this was a single matter and would not be binding on the view of the Progress Party on how other matters should be dealt with. But this is now at least what the government has reported to Stortingen in this matter. There has been no easy case, and there have also been questions about the procedure. I want to say that the question now is, are we going to go in, or are we going to do another round? As we see it, we are more comfortable that the Storting today gives a message to the government to try one more time. I would also like to believe that within the EU system – we have a vote coming in a very important EU country in a short time – there are limits to how much authority different countries can give without having implications for how the Union will be assessed, both by EFTA countries and by its own Member States. I think that's what I'm talking about because you're trying another round. We have had a hearing, as mentioned. There I would say that it was able on short notice, that is correct, but at the same time I would say that the counter-representations that have been up on this matter had plenty of time to be presented in that hearing. In this way, it has been an important part of the procedure. With that, I take up the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e879	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e884	I hear the statement from the representative of the Syversen, but there is something in the case order and the argument here that I cannot fully support. As several have explained, the principles of what kind of agreements the government will enter into have been explained in the past. EEA and financial market notifications have been provided. The Christian People's Party and the committee leader also agreed to say that this matter should be dealt with before the summer, and we had it under consideration. Now, however, you have to postpone the matter. You have to have a whole new account and review. Wouldn't it be better if the Christian People's Party and the committee chairman had addressed this earlier? What really has changed over the past few weeks, when we've known the matter for so long, which makes the Christian People's Party take such a fundamentally different position?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e889	Our proposal came into the committee's position, so it's nothing new. We have gone into the matter very thoroughly. I must also say that when you refer to that this is a kind of natural end of five years of treatment, I do not agree with that. The core point has emerged recently, namely whether Norway would at all be able to vote in favour of this, by the fact that the cases concerning the EFTA States and the EFTA Surveillance Authority would involve some form of vote in the case or only a demonstration of sand. We have to recognise – and I think the majority do – that the solution that is now on the table is sand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e894	The chairperson of the Committee gave a good account of the work carried out in the Committee. With the background of experience as chairman of the Committee and otherwise from the Storting, would he say that the members of the Financial Committee have had both sufficient time and sufficient evidence to make a thorough and good assessment of the matter, as it has been in the Committee? The reason why I'm asking is that outside people who don't follow so well the technicality of this, they don't know what they're doing and what they're assessing in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e901	I think I'm restricted to answering first on my own behalf and on behalf of my own party. We have had a very thorough debate and a round of rounds in our big group on this matter. It is a very comprehensive matter, but I would say there has been more time on this matter than many other matters. We have also reached our position within the time frame set up by the Committee, and it was given an opportunity for consultation. Then it's a little difficult for me to assess whether other parties' representatives have felt that they have had the same time to address issues, and how the treatment in the different size groups has been. Unfortunately, I do not have a passport there – which I sometimes think I should have had – but at least I can answer for the Christian People's Party that we have had a good treatment and have come to the result we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e908	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e911	We are the big deal that celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. We celebrated it, it was a party all around the country, and it was a special anniversary secretariat here on the Stortinget. It was a grand anniversary – where the president himself said with full force on Eidsvoll 17 May: ‘I choose the Constitution.’ In the party speech, the depositor elected from the Right Constitutional Law. Today, the Grandfather and the Right choose to bypass it. ‘It is not a purely formalisation of the requirements for the transfer of authority in Grundlova’, said Eivind Smith in May. In the image "Violence 1814", which hangs behind us, Grand President Christie turns towards us, as a symbol. He looks down at the president, looks down at the Prime Minister's place and looks up at the castle. There goes a line from Eidsvoll and into the hall. In every place is the Constitution. Now it is our turn to manage that legacy, and today it is badly managed. In practice, the size shifts power to an organ we are not a member of. We are not allowed to do that under the Basic Law, but we have had a purely formalistic way of dealing, where there is one man – whom we have been informed during the course of the case – who is to sit and copy the EU decision. It's a copy decision. With such a great waiver of sovereignty as we now have, it would be to be thought that there was something fundamental that would be repaired by the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority – by the Norwegian Code – that the Right, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and most of the Left see some fundamental weaknesses in Norwegian financial regulation and our governance structure. But is that the experience? The experience of the early 1990s with the credit card was that we acted quickly. You acted right. The 2008 financial crisis showed us how important it was with national action when it was at worst. The state acted, and it has been essential that we as a country have been able to act when it has blown at worst. In 2008, as a country, with the government at the head, we determined that other countries could learn much from the Norwegian strict regulation of the banking and financial sector. Now the opposite happens. We've had good tools and control over the toolbox. Now we're going to have worse tools, and in a crisis situation, we might lose control of the toolbox. Because after this, the EU supervisory bodies will be able to override the Norwegians in a crisis, and that is the transfer of authority we are now doing. The government – with Secretary of State Vamraak – clearly said it in a debate I had with him: «The back of the medal is of course that we are not free to impose as strict regulations as we would like from the Norwegian side.» In the same debate, Vamraak says about the deposit guarantee scheme, which is currently 2 million. kr in Norway, which is now going to be EUR 100 000, i.e. approx. 800000 kroner – let me quote: ‘It is an area in which the EU has sought full harmonisation. Norway has had to give up the good regulation.’ So, in order to have a European administration, we need to weaken our legislation. It is very unwise to weaken the regulation of the financial industry and give up power and control of the toolbox. Let me end by quoting one who might not always vote for the Centrette, but who at least agreed with us at this point, Øystein Stray Spetalen: "We shouldn't say that from our right of self-determination, we do that piece by piece. Each country has a different economic base and a different financial sector. I have no faith in transferring the right of access to anyone else." Norway and the Union may have different interests, and what is now on the table is that it is the Union’s interests that will ultimately be crucial – a Union to which the Norwegian people said no in 1972 and 1994 and I hope that the Progress Party will now release its representatives and allow people to vote according to their conscience. This is one thing that I know concerns a lot of people. There are different views in all parties, and therefore all representatives should be able to vote what they themselves think is right for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e958	The President shall assume that the representative shall also make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e961	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e966	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e971	The centre party has put forward proposals for a postponement of the case. One of the reasons given is that we should wait for the vote in the United Kingdom, because if ‘the United Kingdom were to withdraw from the EU’, as stated in the comments from the Central Party in the vote, ‘it is highly doubtful whether the United Kingdom would accept such a transfer of sovereignty to the EU’. ‘The United Kingdom and the EU must therefore find another solution, which could also be a possible solution for Norway’, it says. The United Kingdom is currently a member of the EU and is a member of the EU’s financial supervision for its own financial sector. The same sector is just afraid of an EU exit from the United Kingdom. What does the Center Party base its assessment on here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e978	Switzerland is another country that is not a member of the EU and has not been subject to EU financial supervision. They have a very large financial sector and banking sector and have had no desire to do so. The horror that has come – partly from the government, partly from the other parties on the Stortinget – that this could affect the Norwegian financial sector, we believe is wrong. We believe that it is most relevant for the United Kingdom to see what is happening in the United Kingdom, because what is happening there – whether it becomes a no or a yes to Brexit this June – obviously has relevance to the future development of the EU, and it will also have an impact on how EU financial supervision will be governed. We believe that there was no basis for urgent treatment, and that it would be a good information for the United Kingdom to know what is happening in the United Kingdom. As it now stands, it looks like it's quite open whether it becomes a Brexit, or whether the United Kingdom remains a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e985	Norway is part of the internal European market through the EEA Agreement and must therefore have a link to the EU system of financial supervision. It was the previous government, of which the Center Party and the representative Battle Force Vedum were part, who started work on finding a solution for the EEA countries. On 9 June the Financial Committee received a letter from the Finanzverbund, which reads: ‘Norwegian financial industry is an international industry. The industry depends on having the same conditions as the foreign operators, so that they also have the opportunity to assist Norwegian companies on their way into the world. The financial federation is therefore committed to ensuring Norwegian financial institutions stable access to EU markets, and not least the ability of Norwegian authorities to influence legislative changes that will take place in future EU financial supervision.’» The question is: how will the Central Party, which does not want this agreement, ensure that Norwegian financial industries have good access to EU markets and that financial institutions are given the same conditions as foreign operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e997	At the beginning of the question, it was about the participation of the Centre Party in the previous government, and that we also had negotiations with the EU on different arrangements, for example. the deposit guarantee scheme, which we did not submit to, but on which today's government has agreed. We believe that the deposit guarantee scheme we had was a good one, and that there was no basis for weakening it. Then the government has made its proposition to the Stortinget. As Professor Haukeland Fredriksen said in the hearing, this plan was not a, it wasn't plan b, it had to be plan c – the third choice – that finally came. At the end of the question, we believe that this fear is wrong, because when one looks at the administrative capital of European banks in Norway versus Norwegian banks in the EU, the administrative capital of European banks in Norway is much greater than the opposite. Nor does the EU have any interest in putting a stop to this. Switzerland has obtained good solutions; other countries have obtained good solutions. We are also going to be able to do that, even if we are not going to be under the control of Brussels. We think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1006	Even though I'm not in all of the claims Battle Violence Vedum looks forward from the pulpit, I have great respect for his and the party's commitment to this matter. Then it is – a little to follow up on the previous question – at times really to ask: What did Battle Violence Vedum actually do when he himself was part of a plural government, which put this matter on for three years – and his former party leader put back into the sub-selection of the then government? What has happened in retrospect that the same involvement did not crystallize, so that government put its foot down and found a solution to this already in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1013	That year and a half I was the Council of State, I got the most criticism of today's government parties, that I had a vision different from that of the European Union in my area of responsibility. It's about customs protection. I am very happy that we dared to think anything other than the EU did, and it has gone very well. In this case, the government we were part of, had its primary positions that you worked for. EU countries are countries with which we cooperate. We want to find good cooperation solutions, but the solution that's chosen is not the first choice, it's not the second choice, it's probably the third choice. We weren't very close to making a proposition when we ran, because this wasn't good enough. What a government is responsible for is to ensure that the negotiations it conducts result in a result that is good enough and that is in accordance with the spirit and letter of our constitution. We believe that the proposal here is not in accordance with the spirit and is a circumvention of the letter of our constitution. Therefore, we could not have made such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1022	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1026	On the one hand, this is a difficult matter, on the other hand, correspondingly simple. To start with, it was certainly sensible and necessary for the EU to harmonise and introduce stricter regulation of financial markets, so as to avoid a new financial crisis. Norwegian government powers and Norwegian finance industry have been at an early stage and not only harmonised with their EU legislation, but also ensure that Norwegian financial institutions are in general the most robust in the class in 2016. Since the EU created new supervisory arrangements for the financial industries in 2010, Norwegian financial industries have in practice been able to continue to compete as if they were part of the internal market. For the same time, doctors in the cards – both the red-green government and today’s government have spent considerable resources in the last six years to find a solution – that Norway would formalize the cooperation. The EU has thus treated the industry more closely with those who are at home in EU countries. Two governments have made expectations that Norway will formally join the cooperation. The goodwill that builds on such a fact can quickly disappear if we say no or postpone the decision further. Although the Norwegian financial industry is a major and important industry with 50 000 jobs, unfortunately our industries are much more dependent on the EU than the EU is on them. Another argument on the simple side is the concern of international cooperation and interpersonal and international trade. If it is an industry that really symbolizes it, it must be the finance industry and the infrastructure importance it has for more or less all other businesses and for our consumers. Solidarity, dialogue, democracy, open borders, common European values – nitid developed and institutionalised over 70 years – are now under pressure. The solidarity that has led rich countries to be willing to seduce poor countries is threatened, and vera-seg-self-nationalism and egoism are emerging in an alarming way. Is it one time that it may be more important than ever to be a driver of international cooperation and togetherness, not least with good neighbours in Europe, it is today. Then to the more difficult one – Grundlova § 115. Formally, the majority today are on a safe footing when they give up sovereignty to EFTA with at least three-quarters of the majority. It is also clear that the case has been thoroughly and lengthily evaluated and distributed, and the claim that the matter is urgent by the guard is factually unimaginable. However, it is not difficult to understand and respect the claim that the model proposed by the government is a constitutional structure and that questions are asked about whether EFTA through ESA is just a pure sand-spraying agency and that we are actually giving sovereignty directly to EU institutions. In that case, there is nothing significant new. It has been a rule that the Stortinget has been well reconciled in several areas since the EEA agreement was signed, and that has sparked Norwegian interests as well. In the field of financial supervision too, it is likely that ESA will only pass decisions that come on their table. It is also likely that, in most cases, it will be both sensible and beneficial for the Norwegian financial industry, Norwegian consumers and Norwegian interests. When different EU bodies make decisions that are problematic for Norway and do not open up sensible – and this happens – I think the Left should challenge the EU much more often than we do. Responsibilities in this matter are primarily determined by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The financial supervision itself strongly recommends that Stortinget say yes. For the Financial Supervisory Authority, if there is a change in the whole of it, it does not represent a major practical change. They will continue to supervise Norwegian banks and insurance companies, and they can still be of the best – a model use for the rest of the European colleagues – what is required to impose strict requirements and thus not weaken, but, on the contrary, contribute to increasing the security of Norwegian enterprises and to the benefit of both Norwegian interests and European cooperation. Finally, I also need to thank the case spokesperson for good and thorough work and for the job done in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1045	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1048	Norway has sound government finances, and the Financial Supervision Code has proved to be good. When the representative Breivik says that cooperation and goodwill with the EU could disappear if one says no today, in my opinion it is an empty threat. Initially, the intention of EU financial supervision was to intervene in the inflated financial expansion, which more and more consider to be the trigger for the financial crisis in 2008. On the contrary, further liberalisation of the financial sector has become the current objective, and instead of strengthened social control of the financial sector, EU surveillance is aimed at ensuring the free flow of capital and the free internal market for financial services. There is something that provides very poor protection against future financial crises. This is the Central Party fully in agreement, and the Center Party is based on the right of seamen to decide a code that suits us. What is needed is strengthened social control and more popular control of capital. Why does the Left disagree with the Center Party in the basic view I have now referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1057	I expect the representative Lundtigen to listen to my warm defense with a moment's silence for what we need today, is more international cooperation and togetherness, not less. It's very close to actually asking the question back again. If we were to take the Central Party by the word and go back to the situation before 2009, it was just such a scenario that he can now describe, which was the reality, where it was up to each country, freely forward, to have regulations for its own financial industry, and where, in reality, there were the financial industries that had disproportionate power in the policy of each country, and which then resulted in that we did not actually have a particularly good control over what led to the financial crisis. Even in Norway, which at the time also had a solid banking industry, we did not avoid falling victim to the consequences of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1062	The Central Party has worked for many, many years to improve control of cross-border financial movements. There has been an exponential growth, and the crisis that came, foresaw many. What we are now talking about is the basis of the legislation that will apply, and that was my point. The basis for EU legislation is to facilitate more free movement of capital in an area that has a state financial situation that is completely different from that in Norway, where there is an interest rate that is extremely low and the build-up of debt is enormous – quite the opposite of what is Norwegian government finances. How, then, is it wise for Norway to join an ideology and legislation based on a completely different situation and ability to manage the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1069	In a slightly different way than Per Olaf Lundtigen's user, this is a description of what has really lit Norwegian interests since the EEA Agreement was signed, namely that even if we are outside the Union, it has access to the free market, including Norwegian finance, which is really one of the pillars of Europe's success today, which is also the key to facilitating democracy and peace through free trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1074	Several have not asked for the word for a line, and the cord shift is thus changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1077	President! I understood that others had asked for a line – if not, then a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1082	Then Per Olaf Lundtigen gets under doubt the last line, even after the president's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1085	Thank you very much, President. The strong thing to hear here is that when the representative Breivik defends the position of the Left here today, it is based on the role of the European Union as a representative of democracy and peace. That's what's the sacred cow in the argumentation. A chooser to ignore the facts, chooses to ignore the real economic situation within the central EU countries and within the EU system, chooses not to respond to what is the basis of the financial supervision on which they are to be based, namely the free movement of capital, where the democratic institutions to control it do not have sufficient power to ensure it. How will the representative answer that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1094	Once again, I have to remind the representative Lundtigen of what we are really discussing, and it is giving Norwegian finance industry the same rights as the financial industries they are competing with, that is, access to markets in Europe, through the EEA Agreement. We are also discussing – I thought that the sincere representative Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie are in complete agreement – putting in place supranational schemes that ensure that we do not go into the same trap as we did in 2009, and that is a financial crisis that not only affects the Norwegian financial industry, but also consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1102	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1105	I am a strong supporter of a coordinated, supranational effort to regulate the financial sector. Lack of regulatory control, both nationally and cross-border, was a central part of the source of the financial crisis – in which the representative of Breivik is absolutely right. The subsequent structural problems have hit many countries hard. This includes mentioning that EU policy in the regulatory, economic and financial fields has also hit many people and many countries hard. That is why, in principle, I have a strong desire to support Norway's accession to a financial sector supervisory body that ensures cross-border financial stability. Therefore, I think it is a pity that the government has negotiated an agreement with the EU that gives Norway no control over supervision Norway in practice, that the agreement involves the inclusion of a large number of directives and regulations without the future consequences being well discussed or investigated, that the agreement also involves harmonisation in areas where Norwegian practices are more stringent today and provide better protection for customers and people than in the EU, and not least that the government in the negotiated model risks creating a precedent for Norway's future membership of the EU supervisory bodies that gives little real influence, and, as far as I can see, lack of qualitative remedies for Norway and Norwegian operators. In order to join us in stronger international cooperation in this field, it is necessary to negotiate an agreement that provides better opportunities for regulation and supervision, not worse. Further participation of the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority in all levels of EU financial supervision is now being formalised in a way. However, Norway will not have the right to vote, nor in the cases relating to EFTA States and market players from the EFTA States. We should expect that. I am being considered about the imbalance that arises if Norway de facto agrees to comply with orders from an agency in Norway that does not have real influence over it. Then we are at one of the starting points of this debate. It is absolutely right that it is formally the case that the ESA and EFTA courts grant supranational powers to EFTA, but it is the bodies of the European Union that will issue non-binding decisions and drafts to the EFTA bodies. Although they may in theory conclude differently, the proposition states that they should initially not occur. Yes, it even says that ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU Supervisory Authority, will take a similar or similar decision.’;» As demonstrated by the government’s own proposal, ESA will not, in reality, be allocated resources to enable an independent assessment of the proposals of the EU bodies. Like the representative Syversen and the Christian People's Party, SV – initially – is prepared to deal with the matter now in order to send it back to the government with a view to achieving a better outcome of negotiations with the EU. Nevertheless, once we have subsidized the proposal of the Central Party for postponement, it is for the simple reason that the hearing and the subsequent public debate on the matter should have something to say. That's why you have a hearing. Therefore, I think it is a bit surprising that the majority in this case places such emphasis on the fact that the Financial Committee was initially prepared to deal with this matter in ours, and at all events does not take into account all the statements and observations that have been made since that time. Those statements are a lot of them. Holmøyvik and Haukeland's chronicle in today's business 12 May 2016 is quoted earlier today. I want to quote it again, for it's clear speech: ‘The problem with the outlined solution is that it is embarrassingly clear that it is a construction. Esa’s decision shall be based on finalised proposals from EU surveillance authorities. Esa will not be allocated resources that allow an independent assessment of the proposals. The substantive procedure will take place in the EU.’ And on the other hand, ‘If the Stortinge joins the government’s proposal, a very formal approach to the membership criterion in the Constitutional Law, paragraph 115, is shattered.’ Professor of Law at the University of Oslo, Eivind Smith, has on his side stated the following: ‘The solution the government wants the Storting on is most a purely formalistic circumvention of the requirements for the transfer of authority in the Constitution.’ This must, of course, impress the majority. The whole point of having a hearing is that more votes should be heard, and that important counter-arguments should be released, while in this debate it almost sounds as if there has been no consultation, and as if there has been no public debate after the proposition was sent to the Stortinget. When leading lawyers and social economists ask Stortinget to pull the brakes, there should be a good reason to think about it again. The presentation by the Government and the majority of the United Kingdom today of the unproblematic nature of this waiver of sovereignty is not consistent with the warnings and objections raised by several teams in the hearing and after the hearing. The clear recommendations given to the Committee on the importance of rapid progress, i.e. by the government, do not match the fact that Iceland is not going to deal with the matter until the autumn. One thing is the whole Stortinget agrees on, and it is that this case requires the consent of Stortinget in line with the Basic Law § 115. But then there is reason to point out that the transfer of authority is theoretically only to an organ Norway is a member of or becomes a member of, and that the government's proposal therefore involves making Section 115 of the Basic Law, given its wording and purpose. There can be no doubt – when the government itself states it in its proposal – that we give sovereignty to a body that will in practice take copy decisions from the EU. It should encourage reflection among the majority parties. Therefore, SV wants to reject the matter from the government and ask the government to negotiate further in order to achieve a better result. It would have been the clear best outcome of this case. Firstly, because Norway’s relationship with the EU’s financial supervision will be without formal influence on policies having direct effect, not only for Norwegian regulatory authorities, but also for Norwegian actors and legal entities, secondly because Norway’s accession gives power to the EU’s financial supervision of which it is difficult to overlook the future consequences, thirdly because Norwegian operators, as far as I can see, will not have real access to the EU’s complaint subject, fourthly because the Norwegian authorities will not have the real opportunity to bring legal proceedings in cases where the European Union’s regulatory authorities interpret the EEA legislation contrary to the Norwegian position, fifthly because Norway, when concluding the premises the government has negotiated, risks creating a precedent and weakening Norway’s position in similar negotiations on participation in other areas, such as telecommunications, privacy and energy, fifthly, because Norway, on the occasion of the accession of the Norwegian Government, is likely to give Norway greater impetus in negotiations on the basis of, at least on the basis of the principle of which it has been accepted, but is not yet to be accepted by the Norwegian Government. I think it would have been okay if the majority at least recognised this issue. I think Terje Breivik was well on his way, but I think the rest of the majority have a way to go. Of course, SV will vote in favour of its own proposal together with the Christian People's Party – it has already been raised – and we will also vote in favour of the two remaining proposals from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1152	SV has used relatively strong words in its criticism of the Labour Party's approach in this matter, including: by more than suggesting that labour party representatives are forced to support this proposal, which does not necessarily result in correctness. At the same time, SV was late on track in this matter and, having first argued for transnational supervision and control of the financial industry after the financial crisis, they are now arguing for national supervision and control. What has happened in recent times that has led to this hunchback?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1157	SV has always argued for transnational supervision and control, and that is because we believe that there is a need for transnational supervision and control of financial capital and the financial industry. This is a good example of the financial crisis. But you do not have to throw the child out with the bath water. Adherence to supranational supervision and greater supranational regulation of financial capital presupposes, of course, that it is in the form of an agreement that increases our ability to achieve it. The government's negotiated agreement is weak. It is weak for the reasons I have explained in my post just now, and in addition, we are at risk of creating a precedent for a weaker possibility of influence on future supervision Norway is also going to join. So it's just to notice that the representative Hagebakken almost says straight away that all of the workers' party's claims representatives who today vote in favour of this agreement and this waiver of sovereignty are doing it by the free will and the full force of their hearts, and that's also a signal to give. I think there are many out there in the country who had expected that there were many in the Workers' Party who would see the problems with this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1164	At least I can say that in my party there is no one who is forced to do anything. But you can easily get the impression, which you have so far had over a number of years, that SV is a party that is very much a member of regulation, control and transparency – in most cases, I would almost say. The comments on this case show that SV ‘is strongly attached to a coordinated, transnational effort for the regulation of the financial sector’ and that they ‘have a strong desire to support Norway’s membership of a financial sector supervisory body ensuring cross-border financial stability’. Finally, it is ‘note that the further involvement of Norwegian financial regulators in all levels of EU financial supervision is now formalised’. So the question is, isn't this the last thing to formalize, which is the condition that in the future you should be able to achieve what SV is a member of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1171	I believe that the best way to ensure Norwegian voting rights in the various financial supervisory bodies of the European Union is to negotiate Norwegian voting rights in the various financial supervisory bodies of the European Union. I have noticed a trend in the debate today from the Right where one almost expects SV to conduct a populist mining agitation, since we disagree with the Right, and there is a cognitive dissonance since we establish that in principle we are strong followers of a supranational control over the financial industry and a supranational supervision. We are, and we believe that the government should therefore negotiate with the EU in order to establish an agreement to live with for Norway. I mean, for example. the lack of voting rights and the lack of right to apply to both Norway and Norwegian legal entities is too poor an agreement, and there is something the government has to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1176	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1179	The work on finding a solution to the relationship between the EFTA States and the European System of Financial Supervision was initiated by Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen as early as 2009. In October 2014, I agreed with the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance of the EU Member States and Iceland and Liechtenstein on the principles of a link. The relationship is, in short and overall terms, based on the two main elements of the EEA Agreement, which are consistent regulation in two separate pillars. I briefed the Storting European Committee on these principles on 13 October 2014. The EEA Minister and EU Minister Helgesen briefed the Storting on these principles in its statement on EEA cases on 20 November 2014. After this, Stortinget has been regularly informed of the work on concrete adaptation texts that operationalise these principles. Work started until March this year. The proposal submitted on 15 April contains draft decisions in the EEA Committee with concrete adaptation texts in line with the principles agreed in October 2014. The present draft EEA Committee decisions require a fully demarcated authority to be transferred from the Financial Supervisory Authority to the EFTA Surveillance Authority. The supervision of Norwegian financial undertakings and the Norwegian financial market shall continue to be carried out by the Financial Supervisory Authority, with the exception of the supervision of credit rating agencies and some types of securities records. The EFTA Surveillance Authority is further empowered to: prohibit or restrict certain types of financial activities or savings products where this is not adequately managed by national supervision to resolve disagreements between national supervisory authorities and to take decisions directly against market participants where national supervision would not do its job; As noted above, all the materiality of the supervision of the financial market and the financial undertakings in Norway shall remain with the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority. Since this transfer of powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority in the sense of the Basic Law is considered to be ‘more than negligible’, we ask that the Stortinget consent by a majority of three-quarters, as stated above. The Constitution § 115. First, what we achieve with these agreements is a formal basis for the Financial Supervisory Authority to participate in the cooperation between national supervisory authorities in charge of the European System of Financial Supervisors. A formal link between the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority of the EU Financial Supervisory Authority, where the Financial Supervisory Authority, with the exception of the voting rights, will participate fully, will allow the Financial Supervisory Authority to exercise influence over the professional assessments carried out by the supervisory authorities. Financial supervision may participate in different preparatory bodies and sub-groups, in line with EU countries, have the right to speak in the decision-making body and to be a member of colleges of supervisors of financial institutions with cross-border activities relevant to Norway. Secondly, I would like to point out that the main purpose of the EEA Agreement is the participation of EFTA States in the internal market for, inter alia, the following: goods and services and shall comply with an EEA legislation corresponding to EU legislation. This basic mechanism does not change through the link with the EU system of financial supervision. The financial crisis in 2008-2009 showed that a single European regulatory framework is necessary to avoid new crises in the banking sector. A crisis in the banking sector in one country will affect several countries, which requires international cooperation. Following the financial crisis, the EU has developed a great deal of new legislation on the financial market. Many of these EU acts contain references to the EU financial supervisory authorities. Therefore, in order to incorporate such legislation into the EEA Agreement, we need to have a solution for the relationship between the EFTA States and the European System of Financial Supervisors. Today we have 180 legal acts that have not been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, pending the issue of Stortinget. We have in Norway, for example. already introduced new capital requirements for banks, which were adopted in the spring of 2013, and for insurance companies, which were adopted in the spring of 2015, which are broadly equivalent to the EU Member States’ obligations. But the EEA Agreement requires that we also establish an obligation to have such legislation, and external monitoring that we follow the obligation. In the light of some of the comments and playoffs in this case, I would like to say something about what this case is not: The EU shall not take over the supervision of Norwegian banks. The financial supervision shall continue to supervise Norwegian banks, insurance companies and other financial undertakings, with the exception of credit rating agencies and trade repositories. As of today, we do not have such undertakings. Nor should the EU system of financial supervision be confused with the banking union with the common crisis management authority, and neither the EU financial supervisory authorities nor the EFTA Surveillance Authority should deal with any future financial crisis in Norway. The procedure for incorporating new EU legislation into the EEA Agreement and implementing it in Norwegian law is not affected by the link with the EU financial supervision system. This concerns issues of full harmonisation, EEA adaptations and the amount and design of legislation. I had more on my heart, but I see that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1230	In the debate on this matter, there are contradictions to the negotiated solution. Among other things, some believe that the government should go back to EU countries and resume negotiations. They believe that we should be able to reach an agreement involving the right to vote. Others claim that the solution available means that the authority entrusted to the EFTA Surveillance Authority is only a sand detection. And others claim that now we cannot adopt stricter rules for Norwegian banks and the Norwegian financial sector than what the EU has, if desired. Can the Minister of Finance comment on these claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1236	I've also noticed several of these points of view. It is true that for many years we have been negotiating with the EU and the other EFTA countries to find the best possible solution within the framework of the EEA Agreement. I believe we have now achieved that. The issue of voting rights has never been relevant, all the time it requires membership of the EU, and this would probably lead to a completely different debate among several parties and members of this House. I also disagree with the claim that this will only be a sandstorm, and I would like to stress the fact that we are transferring limited powers to ESA, while the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority will operate essentially just as today and have control of Norwegian banks and financial institutions. As regards the issue of stricter rules, it is that we will have the full opportunity within the framework of the directive to have stricter or less stringent regulations, as Norway considers it to be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1241	There has also been a part of the debate and, to this extent, it is mentioned in the proposition, which way this can further demonstrate for Norway's links with various agencies and supervision, and it is then concluded in the proposition that: «Full participation without voting rights must be the objective throughout.» Then I also heard what the Minister of Finance said and what the speaker of the Progress Party said. How important has this assessment of possible precedent effects been to the government in the assessment in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1251	The government has primarily worked to find a solution to this specific matter, based also on the basis of the negotiation that was provided by the previous government, the previous, red-green government. It is not automatic that the solution now available will define the framework for the solutions found in other areas. It will depend on the degree of similarity between the different domains and positions of both EU and EFTA States. Let me just be very precise: we have made it clear to the European Union that we do not believe that the solution in the financial supervision case sets a binding precedent for future cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1256	25 May was Minister of Finance Siv Jensen in Stortinget. I want to quote two sentences as the finance minister said. "It's a market we'd be closed out of if we hadn't found a solution." And in answer to the next follow-up question: ‘would be excluded if we were unable to find this mechanism’. [[...]] As I have read this matter, and as I have also heard the statement from various professionals and also from the Minister of Finance's own State Secretary, this is a direct mistake. Now, the Council of State also said in the hearing of the Finance Committee that the matter was extremely difficult, so I can understand that one sometimes answers incorrectly, but does the Council agree with me that it is wrong what was said on 25 May? Let me quote again: "It's a market we'd be closed out of if we hadn't found a solution." Is it wrong, or is it right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1276	Let me at least be a little bit more specific. Of course, it is not a matter of physical exclusion, but the basis for this matter is, of course, access to the EU's internal market also in financial services. It ensures our business, our financial institutions and banks full access to this market on equal terms with operators in the rest of the European market. If we had not found a solution to this, our banks and financial institutions would have received a third-country treatment, which would obviously have consequences for both competition conditions and regulation, and which would in the next instance face challenges in relation to the whole framework of the EEA Agreement. This is therefore about including this issue in the existing EEA Agreement and continuing to ensure full access to the internal market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1281	I understand that the Council of State will not say that she said directly wrong, because it is a bit demanding to say, but I understand the answer that she said it. It's her honor. Thus, in response to the Storting, the Council of State replied that the administrative capital of non-EU banks entering Norway is many times the administrative capital of Norwegian banks out into the EU area, so there is no reason for one to operate that type of exclusion. Let me move on to the next follow-up question. The Joint Declaration on the Proposition of Party Leader and Progress Party State Council, Siv Jensen, states: ‘ [[(...) (European Banking Authority)]] Is Progress Party leader and State Council Siv Jensen sure that what is in the Union’s interest is always in Norway’s interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1293	You have to be unusually thin in order not to get the Viedum quotes from the proposition during the debate today. I'm generally in favour of objective criteria. I am also concerned with a system that acts in a non-discriminatory way between actors who are to participate in the same market. When I have worked on this matter, which I think we all agree that is technically complicated, I have been concerned about how we can ensure Norwegian interests in the best possible way towards the market that is the sovereign main market for our business. I believe that, through the very long negotiations that have taken place, both under the Vedum government itself, and under this government, we succeed in achieving the best possible solution within the framework we have, which still ensures us full access to the internal market, which was in a way the whole pillar of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1298	Is the Minister for Finance satisfied with the resources that ESA will be allocated to make independent assessments of the draft decisions of the EU financial supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1303	It is at least that ESA has sovereignty over its own resources, and that is also how much resources they need to spend at all times on different issues they deal with. At the moment, there is very little reason to believe that the flow of things in this area will be very large. There has currently been virtually no single case relating to these issues either in the EU bodies. But I can assure the representative Valen to increase the need for resources, of course, it will come to both the government and the Stortinge table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1308	The representative, Mr Limi, the spokesman of the Progressive Party, said that it would be very naive to say yes to the fact that what is exclusively in the interests of the Union is also in Norway’s interest. So state council and party leaders answer that objective criteria are needed. The objective criteria must always be interpreted. The Union is an economic union without a political union. That's what's called an experiment without a pattern. Here the Union really has a problem where it is not elected by people in the Union who are to interpret the criteria. My question is simply: The opposition to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority in the Progress Party is significant. Many in the Progress Party see that Norway is better served with a financial supervision under the authority of Storting. Can the leader of the Progress Party confirm that the Group of the Progressive Party is today free and voting according to its own opinion on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1315	Let me first say that what we are now discussing is an area of significant cross-border activity. Making sure that our business, our financial institutions and banks get access to our sovereign most important market, I think that's good. It is about establishing and developing a good industrial policy also for a large and important financial industry for Norway. Then it is that the Financial Supervisory Authority will continue to be essentially under the control of the Biggest. Here I believe the representative Lundtigen is constructing a problem that is not present. The limited scope of powers transferred to ESA is manageable, but all the essentials of control over Norwegian banks, insurance companies and financial institutions will thus be under the control of the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority. The size and government will have control of tools and instruments in the same way as in the past, given that a new financial crisis we have to deal with at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1321	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1324	There is a big and important matter The Storting today will take a decision on. The issue of Norwegian membership of EU financial supervision through the EEA Agreement has been high on the case list for both this and the previous government and has been the subject of demanding negotiations. It is a core area of the EU internal market and of the EEA Agreement. The solution allows the continuation of the EEA Agreement with full participation of Norwegian actors in the EU internal market in the financial sector. The financial crisis has shown that there are good reasons for supranationality in this particular area. By finding a solution that ensures a consistent practice in Europe, we are safeguarding important interests in the Norwegian financial industry and in Norwegian business and households dependent on the Norwegian financial industry. We avoid fragmentation of EEA cooperation for financial services. It is not appropriate for us to place Norwegian financial undertakings directly under EU supervisory authority. The EU side could, for its part, which must be seen in the light of the general experience of the financial crisis, not accept a solution without transnationality where all authority remained at national level in the EFTA countries. The solution was that, in defined situations, the EFTA States give powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, which Norway is affiliated to. This is consistent with the two-pillar structure of the EEA Agreement and compatible with the Constitution. The tasks and powers of ESA are complementary to those of the national supervisory activities. ESA shall exercise its powers as financial supervisory authority – as in other areas – independently of the EFTA States. Before taking a binding decision by ESA, national supervisory authorities shall be invited to assist with technical expertise. The right to make such professional recordings is in addition to and complements the right to participate, without the right to vote, which representatives of the national supervisory authorities of the EEA/EFTA States will be given to work with the three EU supervisory authorities. As stated in the proposal, ESA will not have a legal or other formal obligation to take a decision, or take a decision with a specific content, in the light of the draft by the EU supervisory authorities. This implies that ESA can formally not both fail to take decisions and take a decision with a different content. Any deviation from the decisions taken by the EFTA and EU pillars could be addressed to discussions within the EEA Committee in accordance with the usual rules of the EEA Agreement on dispute resolution. Therefore, the solution does not formally imply a transfer of power to the EU pillar. A fundamental principle is that EEA cooperation should be further developed in the context of the development of the internal market in the EU and in order to ensure legal homogeneity and a level playing field. When the EEA Agreement was concluded, there were almost no agencies and supervision in the EU. Therefore, the participation of the EEA/EFTA States was not regulated in the EEA Agreement. You could say that both the previous government and the current government have had to do new work. Today, EU agencies and supervision are a central element of cooperation on the internal market. This also has a significant impact on EEA cooperation. In order to ensure functioning EEA cooperation, EEA/EFTA countries need to have an adequate link with EU agencies and oversight. Few areas are more important than the financial market area in this way. Norway must have an offensive and solution-oriented approach in order to ensure participation in relevant agencies and supervision, although this may involve some challenges of an institutional or legal nature. Full participation, even without the right to vote, must remain the objective, as has also been the practice. The right to vote for non-Member States in EU agencies and supervision is not applicable. Here, the EU adopts a clear principle approach. The participation of the EEA/EFTA States will be necessary in order to continue to ensure a functioning EEA Agreement, regulatory equality in the EEA area and as much as possible a level playing field for Norwegian enterprises. It is difficult to say exactly about possible wider implications and possible precedents of opening up the transfer of powers in the financial supervision process, in particular because EU agencies and supervision may differ significantly in roles, functions and powers. The Norwegian approach must continue to be that each EEA case must be dealt with on the basis of its own premises and what, according to an overall assessment, serves our best interests and a desire to continue a functioning EEA agreement. It is neither possible nor desirable to find a ‘standard’ solution for the relationship of the EEA/EFTA countries with the European supervisory authorities and agencies. A lot of resources have been invested in this matter, and we believe that the negotiated solution is a good one. It is not realistic that we will be able to achieve better results by resuming negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1357	Can the European Minister explain the possible consequences of the failure of the EEA countries to reach a solution in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1362	It would have the immediate consequence that significant parts of the EEA Agreement, i.e. the four freedoms and the part relating to the financial industry and the type of services, would gradually be diluted and could be put out of play. I also fear the overall approach to Norway’s relationship with the EU and the importance of the EEA Agreement. If the EEA countries are obstructing and fail to find good solutions when one has spent a long time sitting at the table and negotiating what both parties agree on is an acceptable solution, it does not create a good climate for further cooperation, which is so important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1367	I have to say that it gave a little insight into how the government views the parties in this: it was the EEA countries that obstructed and were difficult and did not align with what the EU had to have of possible solutions. I'm kind of jumping over that, as a basic starting point. But to the question, which is what template this provides for possible new areas we are going to follow this procedure that is chosen here. It's very interesting to see what's in the proposition. The Minister of Finance said that this was the case and nothing more, and it was probably also the Minister of Europe inside, while she in the Nation is quoted at least as saying that this can work as a good template, not least on the energy side. So my question is now really, what does the government mean? Is this a template, or isn't it a template?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1376	Let me start by saying that the EEA Agreement is an agreement between Norway and the EU, and it involves both rights and obligations. That is what I was dedicated to stress in my previous answer, that it is such that we have entered into an agreement where we are well aware that there are some rules of play that apply, and they must also follow Norway. The representative of the Syversen then asks whether the financial supervision solution is a template for other areas as well. It may be, but it can't be. I think both the finance minister and I stressed that in every case that appears now, there may be some similarities, but also many inequalities, and that means that we have to approach this from case to case and look at what is possible to find, and what will be the best solution for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1383	Here I have to say that I experience a change in the government's argument over time, and I take note of that. Now it's also said that our influence is real, and then I have to ask when it's in the proposition: ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU Supervisory Authority, will take a similar or similar decision.’;» How is it then possible to talk about real influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1395	It is possible that ‘short time’ may also be a slightly relative concept. What we're very concerned about is that we get this top pillar solution, that ESA should take its decisions on an independent legal basis, and that we should be able to consult with national expertise. Then it's my starting point that then ESA has to take the time you need, regardless of what it says about – and what you define as – ‘short time after’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1400	The government has found the Council of State designated as an ‘adequate’ event to circumvent the Constitution, and many of us are concerned about what precedent it will have for other types of supervision. The risk is that being part of this event can now make us weaker when it comes to getting through other supervisory negotiations that are also ongoing. One of the negotiations in progress is the question of ACER, the Energy Agency. It is an energy agency that may influence what kind of influence NVE has in the years to come, and they have also made decisions in conflicts between Member States regarding cross-border pipelines. Gas pipelines are something we know about in Norway, and we have strong national interests linked to them. The council did not answer the representative Syversen, but I would like to ask directly: is this the event that has now been presented, a template for connection to the Acer, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1407	I would like to distance myself from the allegations that the government has presented a solution in which we bypass the Constitution, as the representatives of the Central Party today argue. It is still a reality that, in the case of Acer, the kind of adaptation that Norway should have to adapt to this Agency is being discussed. I once again stress both the answer given by the Minister of Finance, and the answer I gave earlier, namely that none of these agency cases are the same, and that they must be handled like that. They are not the same, and there must be work to negotiate solutions that are as good as possible from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1413	I quoted an earlier exchange of lines by Secretary of State Vamraak, who in Political Quarter on 30 May said that “The back of the medal is of course that we are not free to introduce as strict regulations as we would like from the Norwegian side.” So I listened to the finance minister who said that Norway wanted freedom within the framework of the directive to introduce stricter regulation of the financial industry than the EU does. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: will the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority and Norwegian Governing Boards have full freedom to introduce stricter legislation decisions after Norway has joined the EU Financial Supervisory Authority today, and not just within the framework of the Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1423	This question has been raised earlier today, and it is answered. The reality is that a decision in the European Union can be a minimum decision, or it can be an absolute decision. In any case, what is absolutely a fact is that ESA is going to get into the picture and assess what possible solutions can be for the Norwegian side. I have nothing to add except that it is the starting point, and of course we want to ensure that we have a code in Norway that serves us well, but at the same time takes into account that we are part of a European cooperation agreement through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1428	In previous succession exchanges, the Council of State said that ESA should take ‘decisions on a self-contained legal basis’. The proposition reads as follows: ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU Supervisory Authority, will take a similar or similar decision.’;» Not only that, because until NTB, the Council of State has stated the following: ‘ESA is an institution over which we have absolute influence.’ This is not just two, but actually three mutually exclusive statements and a very good illustration of why it is difficult to support government proposals. Can Aspacer explain what is right? Do ESA take decisions on its own legal basis? Does the EU copy decisions, as proposed by the government, or is ESA an institution in Norway exercising influence over them?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1443	ESA is a body which, in this context, is required to take independent, judicial decisions in the back of the EU’s financial supervision’s decision. When it's formulated like it's done, and when the framework is like it is, it just means it. You have to make an independent decision. The representative also referred to the text where it says ‘approximately equivalent decision’. That means there's a room for action there, and that space of action is important to use. It is also such that ESA should consult and draw on national expertise before taking its decisions. I believe that we have got a mechanism here that both ensures that there is dialogue that can provide special situations, a special starting point for Norway and for the Norwegian financial industry, while at the same time taking care of the valuable agreement that the EEA Agreement is for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1448	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1451	The internal market in the EU has common competition rules applicable to all participating countries. In order to achieve a level playing field in the financial field, the EU also requires EEA countries to be included in the new financial supervision system. This is done by transferring monitoring and action powers to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, as well as judicial authority to the EFTA Court of Justice, a transfer of powers which causes the government to request the consent of the Stortinge to take place under the Basic Law § 115. We are not moving the Financial Supervisory Board to Brussels. No one has suggested it. Norway will, of course, have its own financial supervision, as before. As at present, Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority will supervise Norwegian financial institutions and, just as before, Norwegian supervision will be able to impose stricter requirements on Norwegian financial industry than is otherwise seen in Europe. This is about formalising the approach of Norwegian supervision to ESA, as we are part of the internal market through the EEA Agreement. That solution has now been found through an EFTA plan. If we say no, that means that the Norwegian financial industry will be outside the internal market. Norwegian financial industry will have problems assisting Norwegian companies to compete, and Norwegian financial institutions may not sell their savings products in the EU. The EEA is important for Norway. That was the national compromise after we said no to EU membership. The EEA ensures Norwegian business access to our main export market. 75 pst. of our exports go to Europe, and we have a national agricultural and fisheries policy. The model chosen is fully in line with the EEA TPBA. The Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority shall supervise Norwegian financial institutions. The Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority shall have its seat in the European Supervisory Authority, without the right to vote. The ESA monitors the compliance of the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority with the common regulatory framework, which the Commission monitors the EU side. The EFTA Court judges whether there is disagreement, as the Court of Justice of the European Union does on the EU side. If this model violates the Constitution, the whole EEA Agreement is a breach of the Constitution. It is not that when ESA makes a copy of the European Supervisory Authority, it means that we are subject to the EU. No, there is no legal obligation to make a copy decision, but in an internal market with common legislation, where one supervisory authority monitors 28 Member States and another supervisory authority monitors 3 countries, it would be alarming if the two supervisory authorities were to come out with very different conclusions on the basis of the same legislation. The decision-making authority transferred to the EFTA Surveillance Authority concerns clearly defined cases, mainly cross-border situations where there is a need for mediation between national authorities, crisis situations and the supervision of some key actors, such as the credit rating agency. It is quite reasonable that such powers should be transferred to a supranational level, perhaps also necessary to ensure financial stability in the financial market, where actors operate across national borders. As an EU opponent and an EEA member, I support this change. Norway too needs financial stability in a global world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1464	The financial crisis clearly showed us that the need for a single European regulatory framework was necessary in order to try to avoid new crises. The banking and financial sector is an international sector. Experience shows that the spread effect of crises due to poor regulation and, not least, poor supervision is very fast. The financial and, in particular, the banking sector, but also all other sectors of business, are being affected rapidly. We saw this clearly during the financial crisis, including at home. It was therefore wise for the red-green government to start work on finding a good form of association with the EU’s financial supervision system at the time. Of course, in the light of the results we had seen of the lack of supervision before the crisis, there was no resistance either in the opposition of the Storting or within the Red-Green Government, which set this in motion, and which continued to work in the future. This has been cancelled to the Storting through the annual notifications – in the financial market messages, in budgets, etc. – so that the perception that this case came to the Stortinget, I think it is more because of a lack of interest from Stortinget than information from the changing governments. The size has been regularly informed of the work, now in the sixth year. With this proposition in place, we also have the final formal basis in place to allow our national financial supervision, with the exception of the voting rights, to participate fully and have the possibility to influence the professional judgements made by the supervisory authorities. And if in any area we're just a small country in the world and depending on what happens around us, it's in the financial sector, which is international and global in its orientation, and our isolationism and nationalism gives very poor conditions both for the financial industry and for the control of it. After the crisis, the EU has developed a lot of new legislation on the financial market. Much of this has to do with supervision, and in order to get new legislation into the EEA Agreement, we need a formal solution on how the EFTA countries, among these Norway, should deal with the supervisory system. It is not enough to adapt to EU legislation nationally, as we have done in a number of areas. The EEA Agreement, by its very nature, presupposes that we also establish a formal obligation to have such legislation, and that we are involved in an external monitoring of our compliance with the obligation. This has been a long process, but it has also been thorough, in fact also in the Financial Committee, although many say otherwise, and in this respect: a great tribute to the case-rapporteur, who has done an excellent job. This formal cooperation shall simply try to avoid a new financial crisis. Some of us still remember what it was like in Stortinget when the financial crisis came, how helpless we felt – I put myself in the Financial Committee of the Stortinge at that time. Even our robust economy trembled from the shaking that happened outside of us: the oil price fell, the world's stock exchanges fell, and there was actually nowhere to hide. That's why we're here today discussing technicalities, but also the content of this proposition. Because when you listen to the debate, it's a message that, in my view, is under-communicated here. We talk a lot about what we shouldn't and should not do or participate in, but one question is also: What are we going to contribute to, what are we going to contribute to? That's what this is all about. It is about contributing to financial stability, not only in our own country, but throughout Europe, which also depends on our country. It's about helping to avoid creating new financial crises, which are catching up fast and can also hit our country, hit our business life, hit our economy. And it's not least about -- which we're dealing with in a lot of cases in the financial committee -- helping to avoid a lot of capitalism that we don't want at all. By contributing in this way, we can strengthen not only the competitiveness of the Norwegian financial industry, but the competitiveness of Norwegian business at all. Because that's what's at the bottom of it because we want to connect to these systems in such a way that yes, we can contribute, and yes, we still have decision-making powers, and it will help us and Norwegian business in the long run to get better growth in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1485	The whole way has come up with new moments in this matter. For me, it is completely incomprehensible if a majority of the staging representatives really think they have full control of all the relevant points in this case, and not least that they have an adequate picture of what can be the consequences of the transfer of sovereignty to the EU's financial supervision. Government Party and Labour Party are trying to paint an image of nothing being changed. Yes, the financier even went so far that she claimed, here in the main hall, that the case of renunciation is not about renunciation of sovereignty. There are no relevant warnings. During the hearing on the case of Peika Erik Reinert, professor of economics and member of the Financial Crisis Committee, that the EU has previously pressed for solutions where taxpayers and ordinary savers would pay for debts to private banks. Reinert strongly warns against haste in this matter. It also does LO, which in a letter to the Stortinget underlines the meaning of national supervision of the financial industry and asks for the matter to be postponed. LO determines what the Center Party has warned against for a long time, i.e. that it is more than clear that the Storting needs a more thorough discussion of the potential consequences of this case. There are a lot of cuts in the sea attached to this transfer of sovereignty. In the class struggle on 24 May, Morten Harper points out that the EU has established a banking union where the European Central Bank is a common supervision of the euro area countries. The Banking Union is outside the EEA Agreement. Harper writes here: ‘In the long term, the financial supervision to which the government will link Norway in the EEA is likely to merge with the banking union. In any case, it is not rational for the EU to operate in the long term with more than one competing body. With the government’s proposal, will we be able to develop a banking union that both Norway and the EU agree to be outside the EEA?’ The combination of the fact that it is really insecure, but that one from the yes side still provides non-slip guarantees, we have experienced before. Before Norway signed the EEA Agreement, we received enough guarantees. Norwegian labour rules would not be affected. A differentiated employer fee was not believed. The concession laws for hydropower were not relevant to the EEA. The monopoly of imports into the Vinmonopoly had nothing to do with the EEA. Regulations of foreign ownership in the financial sector in Norway could well govern as we would. 100 pst. By lifting I now frame up, is broken. Has anyone been responsible? No, no, no. The EEA debate started too late. The consequences of the agreement had not been sufficiently apparent. I'm afraid this will happen again. In my reply with the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, I did not receive a reply as to whether Norway is free to introduce stricter regulations than the EU’s financial regulators do. In reply to a reply from Irene Johansen, the Minister of Finance said that Norway would be free within the framework of the directive to provide stricter legislation. In other words, contrary to what both the case spokesperson and the representative of Nordby Lunde said in their speeches, Norway is not free to make the decisions that will constantly serve our banking and financial services. We need to comply with EU financial supervision, which, as stated in the proposal, will only take decisions ‘in the interest of the Union’. After the Council of Aspaker's replies to replies from the representative Serigstad Valen and myself, the question is equally open. Can Norway introduce stricter financial industry legislation than the EU’s financial regulators do? Of course we can't. And the great majority assume a great responsibility when making important decisions to Brussels. Is EU financial policy really a success? The representative Fleet indicated that the financial crisis is a good reason to form common financial supervision – possibly within the EU and the euro area countries, with their respective countries. Last year the Minister of Finance said that one should find a solution without giving up sovereignty. Therefore, it was a shock to get this solution on the table, and it is wrong to say that we knew about this for a long time. Yes, we knew about the matter, we worked on the matter to find a solution without giving us sovereignty, but in a red-green government, this was not the decision – not with the Center Party in that government, at least. The representative Fleet also said that Norway is a small country in the world. Yes, but we are much more successful in our economic and financial policies than the EU has proved to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1509	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1512	For Norwegian business, competitiveness is very important. Then, among other things, we must: have the highest possible level playing field, standards and requirements and not least access to Europe as a market. That's why we have the EEA Agreement. For the financial industry, we cannot set ourselves such that the industry does not have the same conditions as its European competitors. That's why this case is so big and important. Firstly, this case is about securing Norwegian financial industry still access to the European market, the so-called internal market. This allows Norwegian banks and other financial service providers to provide consumers and Norwegian business with a full and good supply. It should be unnecessary to note that Europe is extremely important to all of us here in Norway. Secondly, we are talking about securing people's savings and, not least, securing Norwegian jobs. The international financial crisis showed us how crazy it can be when banks take more risk than they can take. That is why we need this, and the EU took responsibility and put in place a new and more comprehensive system of cooperation on financial supervision. One might wonder why someone thinks that we should not participate in such a new and better supervisory system. It is your intention to make European banks more resilient to crises and bad times. This will benefit Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. We need such a uniform regulatory framework in the EEA for financial services. We cannot do this, we must expect that it may be difficult to maintain a functioning EEA cooperation for financial services and Norwegian participation in a pan-European supervisory cooperation. This is very unfortunate for Norwegian consumers, Norwegian industry and Norwegian economy. It is about cooperation because financial service provision is cross-border. It is important that the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority cooperates well and closely with its European colleagues. Most of the supervision of the financial market and financial activities in Norway shall lie within the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority, and the authority transferred is, in fact, limited in scope, such as: supervision of the credit rating agency and some types of securities trading records. And is cross-border supervision not good with large international credit rating agencies and securities transactions? What is wrong with the European standard for access to ban or restrict certain types of financial instruments or savings product? Live Signe Navarsete asked in a line to Aspaker questions whether there would be stricter rules. Think if it could have been so that we'd avoided the Terra scandal? That would be great. What's wrong with the wildest speculators who really don't want any supervision, now get supervision that cooperates across borders – isn't that good?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1533	There'll be something almost frenetic about the majority's haste to beat this issue through the Storting. In many ways, it is completely incomprehensible that one could not delay it and take better time for treatment. We have a situation in the United Kingdom where Brexit stands and tilts, where it is almost identical between those who want to leave the Union and those who still want the United Kingdom in the Union. If the United Kingdom were to decide to go out on 23 June, it is clear that it will have a significant impact on EU financial market policy, as well as on financial supervision. Iceland, on its side, has decided to wait until the fall, and it also gives us an opportunity to spend longer and make this process more thorough than we have done. In addition, we know that other non-EU countries, in line with Norway, have chosen other solutions. Switzerland has not joined a common financial supervision and, as far as we are aware, has not encountered any obstacles to its financial sector vis-à-vis the EU. It is therefore fully possible to have arrangements with the EU and cooperate with the EU on the financial market side without being part of financial supervision in any way. There are a number of unanswered questions after today's debate. It is true that one has briefed the European Committee in Stortinget several times, but one did not bring forward any case for treatment for Stortinget before the last deadline went out this spring – and it was on hanging hair. This led to an unsatisfactory process, which also after today's debate will be major unanswered questions. There are, let me say, three particularly important unanswered questions that will remain. One is: do we have the freedom to take more stringent decisions, or are we going to have the mere copy decision taken in the ESA body? Some of the speakers from the Working Party and the Right give the impression that we can make stricter decisions. Someone picks a more careful line and says that we can't go that far. What is the reality? Is that a clean copy? Then I think the majority should be honest enough to say it from the pulpit here today. Or do we have the opportunity to make a stricter regulation? The other thing that also gets unanswered is: are we being excluded from the EU financial market, or are we not? The Minister of Finance went very far ahead of this debate in threatening that we would be excluded. However, all experience from other third countries shows that they are by no means excluded — either the United States, Japan or Switzerland. What's the reason for us to think that we're being excluded? And lastly, is this a model that is given a precedent for other areas and other supervision that is also important to Norway, and where Norway has strong Norwegian interests? Not least the energy sector, which we have discussed earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1549	It is fascinating to witness a debate in which the Central Party and the Socialist Left are well placed on the right of the Progress Party in the view of international financial regulation. I cannot find any explanation for that other than the Norwegian EU debate. After all, the need for tighter international control of the international financial industry is open to all who want to see. And if you don't see, you probably haven't learned much from the previous financial crisis. I choose to interpret the great resistance here today as a rash of instinctive resistance to everything that smells of the EU, or, to sum up the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen's previous posts: he's in favour of theory, but against in practice. This is how a world changes. SV’s preferred solution is to negotiate voting rights with the EU Supervisory Body. I know a way to do it. There's good reason to stay at the constitutional sides of the case. Norway has refused to participate as a voting member of the EU, but still has a strong desire and need for access to the internal market. This necessarily leads to a series of solutions that are – to say – far from ideal, at least with Norwegian eyes. Therefore, there is nothing new about considering parallel decisions as control structures, which are intended to implement EU law in Norway. Today we give away sovereignty, which we've done many times before. ESA adopts decisions with binding effect on Norway at regular intervals. Just ask Color Line, Post or Return. However, I'm going to give the opponents of today's case and I'm going to make a point, and that's that this case differs somewhat from previous cases. The structure that's set up in ESA this time, prays to a greater extent than usual the impact of sand pulverisation. The problem with it is not only that the room for independent decision-making is running low, but not least that the possibility of effective control and effective legal certainty guarantees before the EFTA Court seems weak. From my legal and political point of view, one can conclude that it is approaching the outer edge of what is possible under the Constitution § 115. But – as commentator Mathias Fischer asks in the Official Journal of today – what is the alternative? Well, the option if you want to be in EU democracy, not just in the EU bureaucracy, is to seek EU membership. There's little appetite for that in the Norwegian people, and that's what Stortinget does. But in the absence of it, we cannot do economic self-damage on behalf of thousands of added to the Norwegian financial industry. In a time of rising unemployment, it will be the worst option of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1562	Nobody wants a new financial crisis. An important measure against this is to establish supervision of national financial supervision to avoid some countries becoming less aware of the requirements for attracting foreign funding. The experience of the previous financial crisis shows that cooperation is an important response to prevent new crises. The international financial crisis showed how bad it can be when banks take more risk than they can bear. Therefore, in the wake of the financial crisis, the EU established a new and more comprehensive system of cooperation on financial supervision. The aim is to make European banks more resilient to crises and bad times. We know that instability from around the world can quickly pass to Norway with its consequences for Norwegian banking customers and our business life. If we refuse to link ourselves to the European System of Financial Supervision, this could mean that Norwegian financial industries will be outside the internal market. This means that the Norwegian financial industry may have difficulties in assisting Norwegian enterprises on the international road, that Norwegian financial institutions, such as the fund companies, cannot sell their savings products in the EU on equal terms, and that we, as foreigners, are likely to be considered more risky by foreign investors. The last one is very serious. Large parts of Norwegian business and a very large proportion of Norwegian housing loans are financed by foreign deposits. In other words, a no could mean more expensive loans for ordinary people and more expensive financing for Norwegian businesses. That's the last thing we need when the Norwegian economy is in the middle of a big shift. If we stay outside European cooperation on financial supervision, we must expect the EU to suspend EEA cooperation on financial services. Financial services are cross-border. It is therefore important that the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has good and close cooperation with its European colleagues. This matter has been dealt with thoroughly over many years. The red-green government, including the centre party, started working in 2009, and the matter has been mentioned and dealt with in the Storting quite 18 times after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1580	Within the EU there is growing economic, social and political unrest. It will then be a reaction to the economic liberalism on which the Union is founded. This leads to a major change in people's choices of political leaders in EU countries, and the EU is today an economic union without a political union, i.e. people elected at Union level should not govern common economic policies. This is an unparalleled experiment – I want to underline it, it's an unparalleled experiment – that won't go well or take a very long time, it shows historical experience. Norway’s waiver of sovereignty is based on the assumption that what is exclusively in the Union’s interest is also in Norway’s interest. The representative, Limi, said it was spectacularly naive to answer yes to that statement. The point of the case is that the Storting is sovereign and that Norway is committed to a homogeneous and uniform regulatory framework. That's the whole point. I have to say that it is unknowing, or speaking against better knowledge, when some representatives, among other things. from the Workers' Party, states that Norwegian financial supervision can be regulated more stringently than that in EU countries. The report of the EEA Council on 25 May states that uniform supervision is to be ensured throughout the EEA territory. What happens is that elected power over the financial sector weakens, and it is very strong to experience that the Labour Party's leadership is for this value base. It's a real waiver of sovereignty to an agency that we're not a member of, we're about to implement. According to the Basic Law, § 115 states that the Stortinget can: ‘by a majority of three-quarters consent to an international association to which Norway is party or joins, in a restricted area, being entitled to exercise powers conferred on the authorities of the State by this Constitution; [[...]] What is at the heart of this is that we give sovereignty in this matter, that it is contrary to § 115, and it is a circumvention of the requirement in the Constitution, because it says here that it must be an association to which Norway is affiliated or joins. Professor Eivind Smith has said this in the nations on 24 May: ‘To circumvent the requirements of the Constitution.’ He goes on to say: ‘Through the EEA system and a number of other steps towards closer integration, we live in a constitutional shadow world where we pretend to be sovereigns while driving and transferring power constantly away.’ The EU’s supranational supervisory authority, with its 605 employees, will be the leader in what the sole man of ESA can decide. He just has to sign what he gets from the European Union. Several financial regulators believe that the transfer of power means that Norway is subject to weak EU legislation, and that is not in our interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1615	On June 2nd this year I read an article in the class struggle that gave cause for concern. Here, Halvard Haukeland Fredriksen, professor at the University of Bergen, warns that if Stortinget agrees to transfer authority over the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to the EU, the privacy of Norwegian citizens may also be decided in Brussels. Fredriksen states: ‘Once such a model has been accepted, an important negotiating card has been lost to the EU, both politically and legally.’ He stressed that this could in practice mean that the contents of the Norwegian data protection regulation will be developed by an EU agency where the Norwegian Data Protection Authority will probably end up with a B membership, i.e. without the right to vote. I Prop. 100 S for 2015–2016 the government says: ‘The EU must be expected to give agencies and supervision an even more prominent role in the future.’ The government also states that Norway must be linked to these supervision ‘although this may pose some challenges of an institutional or legal nature’. And on the other hand, «Full participation without voting rights must be the objective throughout.» When the majority today will make a decision to transfer authority and sovereignty as it stands, it will later have implications for the privacy of Norwegian citizens, as mentioned. These are consequences we don't know the extent of today. We need to be able to look beyond the individual cases, and in this case we should be aware of the contagion effect that a decision may have for other policy areas. I refer to the European Data Protection Supervisors and privacy, and we depositors must be soundly sceptical on behalf of their own citizens. In the forthcoming negotiations on both this and other supervision, Norway will not be particularly strong after joining the EU's financial supervision today. It was said by the representative Limi at the beginning of the debate, when the topic was about to be postponed until later, that it was not likely that such a postponement would change the outcome. No, the majority of the population may not care that the United Kingdom may report out of the EU, that they do not think it is relevant to this issue of EU financial supervision. Then it probably says more about them than about the actual relevance. It is worth noting that leading economists say that the outcome of the reconciliation in the United Kingdom can mean a great deal for the EU financial market, and that this decision should be in place before concluding on the Norwegian link to EU financial supervision. I think it's unfortunate that the government and the majority of the population are trying to figure out what we can call fiction in a popular way to circumvent the Constitutional Treaty on the renunciation of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1648	Now the President believes that there are more parliamentary expressions than ‘fiction’, but let it pass now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1651	If you think a number of speakers in the debate, including previous speakers, this issue concerns transferring authority to the EU, or even sneaking into EU membership. It's not about that. On the other hand, the case can just be seen as a follow-up to the form of European cooperation that became the major national compromise, namely that we entered into the EEA Agreement. That matter is so limited, but nevertheless important, as that Norwegian financial industry should still be part of the internal market, to which we have joined through the EEA Agreement. Thus, without taking the decision on the table today, Norwegian banks and insurance companies will no longer be guaranteed full access to the European market. This would be very dramatic for the industry and not least for the 50 000 employees who have their livelihoods in the industry, and of course also for a number of other Norwegian players. The Norwegian financial industry is dependent on Europe, while we may be realistic and conclude that Europe is not equally dependent on the Norwegian financial industry. Norway has chosen to negotiate with the EU through different contractual arrangements. So it is the EEA Agreement that is the most important and the most comprehensive. The EEA Agreement gives us privileged access to the EU's internal market, not least for financial activities. The price to pay for this extensive market access is that the agreement must develop in line with EU regulatory developments and that, of course, post-financial developments in the financial field have been very extensive. The harmonisation of the legislation of the EFTA and EEA countries and the EU Member States is the very premise of the whole EEA regime. So if you have something against the very concept you now have, it's really the EEA agreement you're arguing against. This is a consequence of our EEA membership. So there are a number of important things to do with new supervision – it has to design legislative proposals, and it has to ensure that a uniform manual is set up for the supervision of financial institutions in the internal market, and national self-regulation is negotiated only if we do not comply with these international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1666	Today, the Stortinget will do what is the most responsible of all that the Norwegian People's election can do, simply giving up Norwegian sovereignty. For the first time in more than 20 years, a Norwegian sovereignty delegation has been proposed which is so extensive that one after Grundlova requires three-quarters of the majority. The question is, why should we do this? In my view, the answer must be so clear and so understandable that we can explain it to those we represent in the country. That should be a good reason. The government’s proposal implies that Norway, through EFTA, is subject to the structure of the EU’s financial supervision, which in practice is empowered to adopt decisions binding on both Norwegian authorities and banks. In today’s debate, many people speak quickly and use many words without simply and convincingly understanding why Norway should not be the best place to monitor its own financial activities. Right, Workers' Party and Advance Party give wide disintegration on the contrary. Reference is made to the financial crisis and that the association with the financial supervision of the EU should ensure good supervision of the financial industry in Norway, but as the Central Party writes in the vote: it is not ‘documented some weaknesses in the way in which the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has so far supervised the financial market in Norway’. In the nations on 24 May, Professor Eivind Smith said it this way: ‘Norway has been outside EU legislation for a while, and it is difficult to see that it has been a disaster’. The last financial crisis had huge consequences in a number of European countries, where hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs. Norway was better off, and there are several reasons for it, but the Financial Crisis Committee pointed out just how important it is that Norway itself can choose to operate with stricter rules than the EU system. Transferring sovereignty to EU financial supervision will weaken Norway’s potential for doing so. We then transfer sovereignty to a supervisory system to manage a monetary structure for a monetary union without any associated financial and political union. There is no logical policy. The centre party is in line with LO in this case. They ask for a more thorough discussion of potential consequences and suggest that a competence environment or a selection be established to analyse developments in the financial sector to ensure that discussion is anchored. I record that the Workers' Party's representative is claiming that everyone in the Workers' Party is a few with the government in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1691	This debate that several are trying to draw up about exemption is a bit like this type of quote: Can you confirm that you are not hitting your wife? There's not going to be any right answer here, because you have to go into a negative refusal. There's a technique that some parties here are trying to use to create an idea that there's a split where there's no split. We have a financial crisis behind us. The need for regulation and supervision is still high and should be clear to most. There has been a lot of debate here in the Chamber on supervision, how to supervise, and what to do with supervision. The fact is that the supervision to be carried out will be based on legal acts incorporated into Norwegian law, which will also have their counterparts in the EU. It is not the case that EU financial supervision should sit and think about things that should be copied and introduced into Norway. It will have been done in the light of acts which have their democratic anchoring. It will also be these acts and regulations that describe some of the scope of action of individual countries to use their own powers to be strict or not strict in terms of how they are designed. So it could be an advantage if we in Stortinget spent as much time today discussing these, when they also become part of the Norwegian law on a continuous basis. So it's going to be done in the usual way. ESA can today intervene directly with Norwegian companies and Norwegian authorities in the field of competition. This is based on legislation we have in Norway, which also finds its counterpart in the EU. The ESA and the Commission shall follow similar practices and shall communicate on how they are carried out. Now we're going to transfer authority not in a new way, but in a really pretty similar way to what we've done so far, but in a new area, because we have a new area we're going to have to have equal practice. We often have attacks on the EEA Agreement. It's called fax democracy and a lot of other things, but it's an agreement that's been good for Norway. It was also an agreement that I would like to remind you that many people were also comfortable saying no to Norwegian EU membership in 1994, precisely that we have an agreement that ensures Norway access to the markets. Is this a bypass to the Constitution? No, this is an agreement to be able to comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1704	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, which has highlighted in a good way both the matter and the concerns of some with regard to it. I would also like to remind you – after listening to the debate – of the broad consensus that exists, both in the Chamber here and in the Norwegian people, that the EEA Agreement is important for Norway. The EEA Agreement has served us well since 1992, but it is not static. It has been developed continuously over the years, and authority has also been transferred to ESA in the past, but on the basis of Section 26. It is important for Norwegian industry and for Norway that the EEA Agreement continues to develop as the internal market progresses in order to ensure the functioning of this market. It contributes to the negotiated solution. The Norwegian banks and financial institutions are covered by the EEA Agreement and have had access to the European market through it, in line with the European financial institutions, since 1992. So this is nothing new. Nor is it new that the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority cooperates with the European Financial Supervisory Authority. For me, this issue is about ensuring that Norwegian banks and financial institutions continue to have access to the European market, and that the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority can continue to participate in the cooperation on the development and follow-up of common rules on supervision and supervision, as it has done since 1992. The internal market has common competition rules applicable to all countries participating in that market. Everybody makes a living on that. In order for conditions of competition to remain the same for all participants in this market, the EEA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein must also be subject to the same requirements and rules in the field of financial supervision as EU countries. It argues that the Norwegian financial industry is an advantage to them. Overnational rules and supervision have argued for many after the financial crisis. This is such a transnational supervision, to which we now subscribe, through the EEA Agreement. We're not a member of the EU. That is what we need to be in order to have the right to vote – which otherwise, when it comes to cooperation with the EU, we participate without taking part in the decisions. This solution is within the top pillar structure of the EEA Agreement, which thus regulates our access to the European market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1719	The representative Marit Arnstad pointed out that there are three questions that remain unanswered. I disagree a little bit about it, and I thought maybe I'd try to solve some of it, at least. She felt that what we are adopting today was a danger of creating a precedent for new oversight. There I think the Minister of Finance was exemplaryly clear and rejected that that was the case. So it was a question of whether we were excluded from the market. The answer to that is that regardless of whether we are being excluded or not, we do not get access to a harmonised market, and this will go beyond the Norwegian financial industry and not least the Norwegian financial industry's ability to develop and stay with its customers in what is actually our largest market. The last one is that there seems to be a slight misunderstanding in this respect in drawing up legislation and decisions in ESA — or copy decisions, as the Centre Party calls it. In this context, the drafting of legislation and what ESA and EFTA should be able to adopt. Where we transfer authority, it's to be able to intervene in completely specific cases, which we don't think is going to happen with the first. In legislative design, there are sometimes fully harmonised legislation that we cannot derogate from if we are to be part of the internal market. But at other times there is freedom within the directives, such as: on capital requirements, where Norway often relies on the more stringent part of the scale. This option will continue to exist in Norway. In the follow-up to the legislation, which the supervisory authorities have, they must deal with that legislation. I think it is interesting again that the Central Party in this debate believes that Norwegian special regulations are good, but that they are consistently in connection with the financial market notification, almost every year, criticising the government for maintaining Norwegian special regulations, among other things. weighting of local government loans, introduction of SME rebates and new unweighted capital management requirements. What the Central Party is actually doing is saying, on the one hand, that we want derogations from these Norwegian special regulations, but then we do not want the robust supervision that the EU actually wants to carry out with a cross-border financial industry. I want both.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1731	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde from the Right says that the centre party ‘calls’ that copy decision. This is because we can read, and because we have read the promissory statements, and it says straight from the government: ‘the EU Supervisory Authority will take a similar or approximate equivalent decision’ – that is, you have to copy what the European Supervisory Authorities have decided. So more clearly than the government has said there, you can't say that when you have to make a 'equal or approximate equivalent decision'. Unfortunately, it seems that the majority now ignores the warnings we have received over the past few weeks. Paragraph 1 concerns the constitutional, where the country's foremost expert, Eivind Smith, has been as clear as he has been. You close your eyes to that. During the hearing, Professor Haukeland Fredriksen said that this wasn't plan A, it wasn't plan B, it had to be plan C at best. The legal environment in Bergen thought this was a bypass to the Constitution. The legal environment at the University of Tromsø has said the same thing. Unfortunately, it ignores the bulk of the population today. We have been told that the independent competence we are going to have in ESA, there is one person, one named Bærøe, who is going to sit there and make judgements against all those – huge – 600 – 700 who sit there in the EU system, so it must be an achievement that the ministry has found in him Bærøe! It's amazing that you think it's an independent assessment. The warnings of Erik Reinert, a member of the Committee on Financial Crisis, who has been very clear, have been ignored, who has asked whether we will have the same national freedom of action in the future as we have now. You haven't managed to refute anything there, unfortunately. One has overlooked what has come from Kenneth Haar, who said quite clearly: it's not about strong regulation, it's about weaker, it's a discussion about deregulation, not the large number here. So here you adopt a huge transfer of sovereignty more of the prestige, rather than going into the matter properly and heavily. Finance Minister Siv Jensen has also had to admit – with a smile – today that she has given the Stortinget wrong information before, that we are being excluded from the European financial market if we do not join it. Carl I. Hagen wanted in 1992 to postpone the treatment of the EEA and put forward proposals together with the Christian People's Party, SV and the Centre Party. He had a different approach than today's Progress Party leader. For the Progress Party today, it is clearly more important to get this trodden through than to get an informed and talented debate. We should have got that, because this is such a big and so fundamental question, and it's sad that we don't have time for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1742	The Government and the Workers' Party's rationale for the urgency of this important matter today has been highly misleading. The government and the Labour Party believe that a Norwegian postponement of the case would delay the work on changes to the EEA Agreement. Truls Wickholm is quoted on: ‘As I understand it from the government’s feedback, it has been suggested that the EFTA countries now deal with this during the summer and that decisions can be taken by all parliaments, so that EFTA can approve the agreement in negotiations with the EU.’ However, it is now apparent that the Icelandic Parliament will not deal with the matter until the autumn session, and from that point of view there is a warning that there will be a thorough handling in Iceland. Jusprofessor Stefán Már Stefánsson tells the nation on 9 June that he is in violation of the Icelandic constitution. He is a constitutional expert and has been in everything several times and interpret the constitution of everything, so he is certainly one should listen to. When the Icelandic Parliament waits for the summer, there is no reason why we stand here today and deal with the matter, at least not the reason that has been run by the government and the Labour Party. But I have a question and a summons to the Council of Aspaker. It must be quite clear that Iceland is free to make independent national assessments on its own basis. Can State Council Aspaker guarantee that the Norwegian Government will not put any pressure on Iceland, either when it comes to time use or their ability to make a real and independent constitutional assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1754	There is an important issue that hangs in the air after this discussion, and it is stated that when Norway becomes part of the EU’s supranational financial supervision, Norwegian financial supervision can regulate more stringently than that in EU countries. It has not been clarified by the Minister of Finance, and I ask the Minister of Finance to take the floor and clarify whether it is the opinion of the Minister of Finance that the Norwegian Financial Supervision, if we say yes to the supranational transfer of authority that we are now talking about, can, however, regulate more stringently than in EU countries. When more people are in such a great error that one says it, we have to hear from the authoritative team whether the Minister of Finance's answer is yes or no to it. Right-wing spokesperson, representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, said that it is maritimely important to have a homogeneous regulatory framework for the financial sector, and that is how I have understood it. And the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde stayed exactly within what she has the opportunity to do in the basic vision, and said that one could lie down on the strict part of the scale. There are opinions that I understand, but it is within the scope of Norwegian financial supervision not being able to regulate more stringently than what is happening in EU countries. After all, the ideological basis of the EU’s supranational financial supervision is to promote more economic liberalism rather than more social control. One shall have a freer movement of capital. Popular governance should not be strengthened, nor is it possible within the EU system, because there is an economic union without a political union. It is not like that in Norway that we have a finance department with a finance minister, and a finance minister who must have support in Parliament in order to remain a finance minister. It's not like that in the EU. This is the experiment on which the whole of the EU is based – that one has gone to the fatal step of first establishing an economic union without having a political union. It's no use over time not having a popular governance of the whole when you're up on such controversial issues as what we know the EU is up on. Finally, the representative Truls Wickholm and release: the representative said that the Central Party is asking about it, only an attempt to create the impression of a conflict within the Workers' Party, where there is no conflict. It is interesting that the Workers' Party released its representatives when it came to voting on the Constitution § 115, and said it clearly. It is not said clearly here, and it indicates partialism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1769	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1798	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1805	We believe that the main debate on the revised budget will come back on Friday, so I will be very brief as the rapporteur and just make some comments on the two issues. With regard to the legislative part of the revised budget, it is very limited and there is largely consensus. There are a few points in which the Committee separates layers. First of all, it concerns the possibility of exempting leisure homes from property taxes. The Committee agrees that there is an opportunity to do so. Then there is a slight disagreement about the same law as regards the initial outsourcing of property taxes and what the maximum rate may be. The fact is that if a printing basis has been adopted, for example: in the case of works and use, it has been possible to have a full rate also on dwellings after the first year, even if this would be the first time for the collection of the housing part. It now suggests to the majority – and the government has done so in the proposition – that you can no longer do it. It shall be adopted by a majority of the Committee. I just want to draw attention to the report that the government is giving of two request decisions in this case, which relate to black work. One concerns the decision of the Storting to ask the government ‘to determine whether the Tax Agency may have better opportunities to obtain relevant information and to secure evidence, inter alia through seizures’. Here the government announces that the Tax Directorate is conducting such an investigation. And then we'll see if this becomes reality gradually. But the work is in progress, and we are pleased with that. That is the case with Decision No. 515, where the Storting asks the government ‘to determine whether the tax certificate can be improved so that the tax certificates become valid in real time and thus become a better tool in the work against black’ work. The government announces that there is now a system for ordering tax certificates in the Altinn, where tax certificates that are valid in real time can be obtained by showing the status of the current search date. We are very satisfied with that and join, of course. This is the case with the proposal from several representatives of the Central Party for VAT compensation for boarding schools. It is an overall committee that refers to the consensus negotiated in the context of the revised national budget, which we are going to discuss on Friday, where we are going to go in and support the government to introduce a new legislation on VAT compensation from 1 January 2017, but in addition we are going to have a system for the requirements – we are going to call it – that have arisen since the tax authorities, in my opinion, made a completely unnecessary reinterpretation of an existing legislation. By that decision, we make sure that no one gets hurt when it comes to schools. This applies to one more school, in addition to what is mentioned in the proposal for a representative. This applies to schools with adult students without the right to secondary education. It's a very important part of the basis for that consensus, and it's very important that these schools can still operate as they have done. I come back to this, of course, in the general debate, but I think that is the basis for saying that the tax authorities have some potential for improvement in dealing with these kinds of issues. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1824	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1838	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1845	This is a matter of great agreement, so I'll be brief. I would first of all like to thank the representatives of the Christian People's Party for bringing forward an exciting proposal for the Stortinget. One might say that a travel of ours in the financial committee has made an exciting proposal likely to have a less debate than the proposal had deserved. The proposal to set up a CompetenceFUNN scheme takes place in the middle of the important debate on how to meet the record high unemployment rate at present and how to transform Norwegian working life for the future. A stronger focus on corporate competence should be part of the recipe, for investing in education, research and innovation alone will have little effect if the competence of Norwegian enterprises is not strengthened at the same time. It is best in enterprises that the prerequisites for learning are best and the path from knowledge to value creation is the shortest. The competence of the labour force lies with the skilled workers, with the engineers, with the sellers and with the managers. Their experience is worthy of gold. In a globalised world, Norway will not be the cheapest, but we can be the best. This presupposes that we also deliver quality in the future, are productive and that Norwegian workers remain well educated. Norway has a good cooperation tradition to build on. Tripartite cooperation is the best starting point for solving this. Competence is not self-esteem, but the Norwegian model improves the assumptions. After all, in enterprises, competence is transferred to the creation of wealth, export income, tax income and well-being. Statistics speak for themselves: 90 pst. new Norwegian jobs are created in existing enterprises. I agree with the proposers that we cannot be satisfied and that there is a need for new proposals and discussions on new instruments. As the proposers emphasise: ‘targeted investment in skills, learning and knowledge development at times of decline and weaker growth in Norwegian business is of particular importance’. [[...]] This is a description of the overall committee behind it. It is also very gratifying that the government is in favour of the initiative. In a letter to the Finance Committee, the Minister of Finance stresses that the government ‘will present a national strategy of competence policy in 2016’. The Minister of Finance further writes: ‘The strategy shall be developed with the social partners, which are in line with the Norwegian tripartite cooperation.’;» It's a strategy both I and the committee look forward to seeing. At the same time, the majority of the Committee points out that a tax deduction, such as the CompetenceFUNN scheme, can be asked by a person the most appropriate means of providing public support for the development of competences. Although only the Christian People's Party is voting for the proposal today, there is no blatant rejection from the majority. We refer to the annual budgetary rounds, and I do not think this is the last thing we look at this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1875	It is not every day that you get a proposal with as much goodwill in both comments and posts, but the result is now as it is. But I heard the representative Tvedt Solberg say that it's probably not the last time we're going to discuss it, so we take it as a sign that we should promote it again on a later occasion. It is true, as the case-rapporteur said, that the government is setting up a plan for this type of development of labour skills later this year. Then we'll see what good suggestions the government makes. We believe that innovation is often very closely related to competence – competence that provides the ability to see new opportunities and the ability to develop ideas for a product. Developing skills in enterprises provides the basis for new jobs and growth while helping to create safer jobs by maintaining competitiveness. We have thought that a CompetenceFUNN scheme, which can be compared in part with a TaxFUNN scheme, which we have, would be a good response to the challenges we know that working life is facing. The TaxFUNN scheme is an uncomplicated scheme. It works well, and it's actually strengthened by the majority that has now been behind the budgets. Then I notice that a State Council from the Progress Party writes the following in a letter to the Committee: ‘If a person wishes to provide public support for the development of competences, questions may also be asked about whether a tax deduction is the most appropriate instrument.’ I just have to say that here is the Christian People's Party more concerned with what can benefit business and work in terms of tax deductions than the Progress Party is, but there is probably also a debate we're coming back to. I am then promoting with joy the proposal that we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1893	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1896	I'll be very short. I agree substantially with what the rapporteur said here. Having said that, I would also like to add that I am convinced that the proposal of the Christian People's Party has the very best intentions. However, it is concluded without further delay that the model should be established, without seemingly having been investigated or discussed to the extent necessary. I think it is important that we take into account the needs of companies for skills, and furthermore it is important that this is done in cooperation between the social partners, as we have developed this over many years. The Government points out that this is precisely to be done in the context of the presentation of a national competence strategy. Another factor is that tax deductions and aid could often lead to some kind of over-exploitation of such schemes. Measures may easily be taken because they trigger deductions and, where appropriate, support, without a demonstrable need for this action. The conclusion therefore seems to be that the present proposal should not be adopted without further delay, as this could potentially lead to unintended effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1909	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1914	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1933	As rapporteur, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Hansson from the Greens/Greens/European Greens for producing a top-level draft representative. The discovery of the so-called Panama Papers illustrates that. The leak of 11.5 million documents revealed that both state leaders, businessmen, criminals and acquaintances buy secrecy and hide money in tax havens. The scandal not only affects others, it concerns us. Norway's largest bank had been involved and arranged for the Nordics to move money into tax havens that secreted the real owners of large assets. Missing economic openness, capital flow and tax evasion have a number of socially damaging effects. Enormous amounts of money are taxed and thus the public revenue base is clawed out. This weakens the state's ability to solve its tasks and its people's confidence in the authorities and democracy. It's serious enough, but the problem has several sides. Lack of transparency and openness make society more vulnerable to groups involved in drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking, terrorist financing and other cross-border crime. Document 8:84 S spells out a comprehensive proposal for a decision. It can be divided into two. In the first part, it is proposed that the Storting should ask the government to work actively in cooperation with like-minded countries to build international support for concrete political and legal measures to combat problems related to tax havens and economic secrecy. A consensus committee is behind such a call to the government. The Minister of Finance confirms to the Committee that she subscribes to the problem description and that the government is giving high priority to this work. In the second part of the proposal, the government is asked to initiate a diplomatic process aimed at negotiating a new international convention on economic openness across borders with obligations to comply with a set of minimum rules on financial openness and country-specific corporate reporting. Here the Committee has a more nuanced assessment. The 2009 capital flow selection proposed the establishment of such a convention. The whole committee believes it would be a good solution if such a universal convention were established. But how easily can it be done? The majority think of a strategically important question is which track it is most appropriate to follow in the work to get an impact on greater economic openness. In 2011, the International Law and Policy Institute produced a report on the possible added value of such a convention. The conclusion was that a convention can give added value, but the conclusion remains. Are the countries that have found a niche as a tax haven likely to accede to such a binding convention? Will other approaches in practice provide a better impact? Hopefully, over time will be closed with the establishment of an international commitment to a binding Convention on Financial Transparency. The Committee of My Norwegian Authorities should contribute to such an involvement. A joint committee asks the government to keep the Stortinget informed about the future development of such a convention initiative. As case spokesman, I am happy to have agreed on this, even if there are shades in the view of which track is the most important one to follow. From the Christian People's Party we believe it is possible to work parallel along several tracks. Lack of economic openness has many problematic consequences, and we also need more tools to address the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1950	An international convention on economic openness is a very good idea and will probably be possible at some point in some form. What the case spokesperson went through in a brilliant way here, has great professional support, and over time here in Norway, there are many who have realized that it will be a good idea. The question is whether there is now a political climate that means that Norway should now work directly on it, and my best guess is that what we should do first and foremost now is to end up with the many international initiatives taking place in this area, but with greater force than we have done in the last two years under the government we have. Therefore, first of all, we should continue the work within the OECD with even greater force than today. We should continue to support the work of the United Nations and other international contexts, and not least what appears in the Int. 420 S for 2012–2013, which is also referred to in SV’s comment, as at the time was a co-conspirator’s remark in Stortinget, but as now, perhaps a little paradoxical, no party other than SV will refer to in the option. There's no doubt that there's a little mixed view of this internationally right now. In recent times under the red-green government, among other things, former development minister Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås some forward to some other countries to look at the interest of such an economic convention. At that time, we learned that even from those countries that otherwise are very close to us in those questions, there was little interest in that track, just for tactical reasons, that one had more faith in making other progress. That's why cork SV or other party brings forward the proposal in the vote, but for our part it's obvious that we need to strengthen the work of economic openness internationally, against tax havens, for better transparency, for country-to-country reporting, against illegal capital flight. It may have to be done with a wide range of tools, but with much greater weight than what has been done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1959	Every year we get new revelations that show that the world has a big and perhaps growing problem of tax evasion, capital evasion and economic crime. Initiatives through the G20 and OECD are important. Initiatives through the EU are coming, but they have proved not to be sufficient to date. That is why the Greens have taken the initiative – the initiative that has emerged in different variants earlier in the UK – to work actively and take an initiative from the Norwegian side to an international convention on economic transparency across national borders with minimum rules on financial transparency and country-specific company reporting. We, who are not in the committee, thank you for a thorough, factual and constructive examination of the proposal and for the statements that have underlined it, from the case-rapporteur and from the representative of Solhjell. We note that the Committee concludes that Norway should continue to keep its priority in the international forums where work is already under way on tax evasion and capital evasion and on financial transparency. The Committee points out, however, that it is natural that Norwegian authorities also contribute to the promotion of an international convention, and asks the government to keep the Stortinget informed of the future development of the possibilities for such an initiative. One way to strengthen this work would be for Norway itself to show the way and establish stricter minimum rules on financial transparency and country-specific corporate reporting for its own funds, for Norwegian companies and individuals and international companies operating in Norway. The main argument against a convention, namely that it will be difficult to obtain the consent of countries that deliberately contribute to capital flight and tax evasion, is a kind of argument that applies to all initiatives to create international cooperation on something which is initially major and widespread international problems. Similarly, those actors with an interest in preventing greater transparency in financial transactions are not open to join, for example. OECD initiative. It is quite right that there has been a lot of financial secrecy in recent years, but on the other hand, as the leaks of the last few months have shown, we are very far from being in the goal. The question probably has to be whether we are moving in the right direction at all. An international convention is not intended to replace the initiatives already under way, but as a superstructure and a strengthening and coordination of these initiatives. The OECD CRS initiative, The Common Reporting Standard, is positive and useful, but the problems posed by international financial environments go far beyond tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. There are many sides that are not covered in this type of agreement. Bank boxes are not included. Release ports such as airports where high values are stored are not included. The agreement is clearly lacking in enforcement, such as dispute resolution mechanisms, etc. If a country such as Norway is to be able to both pursue its own interests and to contribute, in particular, to help developing developing developing countries to reduce capital mobility, it needs capacity building and greater international cooperation. The OECD CRS initiative does not contain this either. I therefore take note of the counter-representation to which the representative, Solhjell, referred, inter alia. strategic, towards taking an initiative that we propose today. I do not doubt the good intentions behind that kind of strategic thinking, either from Norwegian actors or from foreign countries, but we must note that this is a type of issue where restraint has at least partly the consequence that the problem continues and is not resolved. This also leads to a demonstration in Norway of the existence, even in Norwegian financial systems, of a culture and a view that, above all, smart behaviour with money in an internationally unclear system is ok. Therefore, it is important that the Storting and the Government send a signal that the tolerance for that type of activity is lower than before. It is important that it is understood that there is a willingness to do more than before, and it is important that it becomes visible that there is a will for a more forward-looking attitude than before. That is why we promoted this proposal. We are pleased that it has received so much positive reception, and we encourage the strongest government to step up the activity of internationally unfortunate operations in financial environments, and to continue to look at a convention as one of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e1980	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2007	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2018	It's been 17 years since the Stortinget dealt with a message from the government about our energy system. So even I was only 13 years old when the energy policy was thoroughly debated in this Chamber. Since 1999 and the previous energy message, the mobile phone has become all-rounder, our houses have received more and more advanced electrical appliances while they have become more energy efficient. Since 2000, 84 and 47 gigawatts of wind and solar power have been built in Europe, respectively. Coal, oil and nuclear power have all gone back. We've got Leaf and Tesla, the first electric cars to reach large groups of buyers. Thus, there have been major changes in the energy field since the last report to the European Council on energy policy, both in Norway and in the world. At the same time, the fight against climate change has been given a growing place in our awareness and is taking the lead in the policy that will prevail in the years to come. Not least, the Paris Agreement, which we are going to discuss here in this Chamber tomorrow, places considerable weight on Norwegian energy and climate policy. Everyone is talking about the green shift, but it is when you see security of supply, climate and economic development in the context that the concept has concrete content. The green shift in Norway is not primarily about a switch from coal to gas or renewable in the power sector, as it does in many other countries in Europe and the world. 99 pst. of all power generation in Norway comes from hydropower. In Norway, therefore, the green shift is more about phasing out fossil use in other sectors and using our fantastic hydropower in new areas. We often hear that Norway is built on the wealth of oil and our gas, but it is really the hydropower that has been, and is, the carrier of modern Norway was built and industrialized on. This good supply of renewable and non-emission power puts Norway in a unique position to further develop an industry with low emissions and phase-out fossil consumption in other sectors. This has also been my first experience as rapporteur for a big message. It has been a demanding work, also because the Committee on Energy and the Environment has dealt with a large number of issues this spring. I would like to congratulate the members of the Committee on the good work that has been done and on the fact that the Storting can today deal with a position containing a broad majority on many important road choices. Then I will not hide that there has also been frustration about short deadlines and such things as hearing with a large work pressure. I interpret that as a strong desire of all parties to have a hand on the wheel of the process. It has been important for the government parties to seek a majority first with our cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is completely in line with our cooperation agreement. This may not have been a big surprise for anyone, but I am nevertheless pleased that the committee has finally issued an opinion that is unanimous on many points. The impact notification and energy policy focus primarily on how to ensure a stable supply of electricity. Power is the basic and critical infrastructure on which we are all totally dependent, and on which our modern society stops without it. Therefore, there should be no need for the notification to focus on the framework conditions for the production and distribution of electrical energy. Energy policy has also been given a different and larger dimension, which is about climate and the environment. This is the theme highlighted in the Communication, which we have raised in the Committee's discussion. The result is a holistic approach that addresses security of supply, renewable energy production, framework conditions, issues of protection and use, and not least the climate aspect of energy use. Norway is an energy nation. The hydropower is and will be the backbone of our energy supply and is a competitive advantage for Norwegian business. It is our duty to manage the resource that renewable energy represents in the best possible way. I am therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee that adheres to the principle of turning energy policy from subsidising the production of known renewable energy to supporting the development of new climate and environmental technologies. This is important to ensure that Norwegian renewable energy is profitable, but it is also important because Norway’s perhaps main contribution to the global reduction of greenhouse gases will be the very development of new technologies. In practice, this means that the Stortinget will today decide not to continue the electrical certification system for Norway, and we are giving leadership and signals on Enova’s new mandate. This also means that the Committee endorses the government's proposals for simplification in concession proceedings, and the majority will also wind up the overall plan. Renewable energy must be profitable in order for it to be sustainable. If we are to succeed in the transition to the low-emission society, it must pay off to make environmentally friendly choices. The notification of the Government and the decision of the majority are based on the objective of decoupling economic growth from emissions. The attitude has been clearly green, and the majority has a wide range of proposals on how to use renewable energy more fully to phase out fossil energy in all sectors. If we're going to do this in a good way, it requires good knowledge. I am therefore pleased that the bourgeois parties agreed at an early stage that the government should already, at the time of the government budget, make this harvest visible and mention emission reduction targets in the non-quota sector. This work presupposes the submission of the EU Commission’s effort-sharing proposal and underlines the close link between Norwegian climate policy and the EU. In particular, the transport sector, which accounts for the largest domestic fossil energy use of around 54 TWh in 2014. There can be no doubt that phasing out fossil energy for transport is becoming very important in order to achieve the emission targets we have set ourselves. Therefore, the bourgeois parties proposed that the Government of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 should set targets for the number of low- and zero-emission vehicles in 2025. These target figures shall follow agreed climate objectives and the potential proposed by the disciplines. Let me also quickly add that the setting contains a number of proposals that facilitate the use of hydrogen to a greater extent, higher ambitions for biofuels and green shipping bets. Enova is already one of the most important tools we have in climate policy. This is further reinforced in the Communication and in the decision of the majority here today. Enova’s economic muscles need to be strengthened in the coming years and it is absolutely necessary for them to be able to cope with the tasks now assigned to them. I am not about to advance future budgetary processes, but rather to raise the majority's point of view on a new principle of financing Enova. In view of the phase-out of that el-certificate scheme, the majority would like to see consumers' obligations relating to this scheme met in the network tariff. As a power customer, this should not be particularly marked on the bill, so there is no new charge in addition to what consumers are already charged. Such income will enable Enova to support projects both in industry, in the transport sector, in construction and new innovative climate and environmental technologies. 17 years is a long time, and progress is fast. What do I know, perhaps the case rapporteur is going for a future energy report in high school today. What I know is that she or he will be part of a society where energy is produced, distributed and used in ways that we haven't even thought about today. It will be a society where greenhouse gas emissions are significantly reduced or completely lost. Hopefully, we've been there today to create the basis for such a development. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2062	I would also like to thank the Committee on Energy for its work on the Energy Communication and also for the representative proposal Document 8:51 S, from several representatives of the Workers' Party, on measures to reduce climate change emissions. First, I would like to make a small mistake in setting. With regard to the proposal for a representative, Document 8:51 S, the nomination shall be made on behalf of the Committee as a whole, not only of the lots. The processing of the energy message by the Storting has made it a climate and energy message and not just a power message. In many ways, we are now linking the Energy Communication to the objectives we have set in the Paris Agreement, where we are going to reduce emissions in Norway by 40 pst. Energy policy must build on climate policy objectives and help Norway to become a leading country in the transition to the low-carbon society. Energy policy must therefore facilitate fossil energy use to be replaced as much as possible by renewable energy sources in all parts of the economy. There have been two important objectives for the Left in dealing with this big message. One is to get a good strategy for decarbonisation of all parts of the Norwegian economy, with clear targets for where we are going, and what instruments we are going to use, the other is to have a strategy to ensure that Norwegian business participates with good framework conditions in the green shift. Message has been good. The civil side has created dynamism, and we expect that the proposals will receive broad support when we finally come to the vote today. From the left, we are satisfied that we have been involved in creating results. We adopt the first step towards carbon budgets with sectoral targets based on EU objectives. This is crucial for each sector to know where to go and to create the means to get us there. In the proposal for a representative, we also deal with the proposal for a climate law, and we say clearly in our remarks that we need annual reports on how we are doing to achieve the climate targets for both 2020, 2030 and 2050, with a description of what we need to do to get there. This is a unanimous committee behind it. Although we have a clean energy sector in electricity in practice, we have a major challenge in Norway. A high share of energy consumption remains fossil – in the transport sector, in the construction sector, in industry, in agriculture and not least in the petroleum sector. This consumption must be replaced by clean energy. This is a challenge, but it also gives us a great opportunity. Where other countries need to spend a lot of time and resources making energy supply emission-free, we can focus almost all of our attention on using energy and decarbonising the entire energy consumption. The green certificates were right when we introduced them. Then there was a need for more renewable energy and that we were involved in developing the green shift. Now there is a majority to wind up the scheme, as the situation is today, with a surplus of energy and low profitability for the renewable industry. But it's important that the bet is not reduced as we now go beyond the green certificates, but that the funds go to Enova for more technology-developing projects in the field of new renewable energy. We now have a decision that we can already have schemes for demonstration projects for liquid sea winds in 2017 and that we should also look at other forms of ocean-based renewable technology. Enova is important and will become even more important in the years to come; it is perhaps the main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions that the Storting has. When we come into a new agreement from 1 January 2017, the Energy Communication provides a clear framework for the order Stortinget will give. Enova needs to suggest that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to strengthen security of energy supply, and we need to develop climate and environmental technologies. It is also important that we focus on the continued development of local energy production. This is important for the green shift, to get people on the team to develop technology. Solar energy is one of the alternatives, which also shoots speed after the Left and the bourgeois parties have already done, by being a plus customer and receiving green certificates at the same time. In this message, we are adding up to continue to bet on solar energy. Much of the Committee's attitude is about transport. It is important that we reach the target for the number of low- and zero-emission vehicles, including passenger cars, vans, buses and heavy-duty vehicles, by 2030. This is historical, and international attention has also been given. Only a few months ago, it was primarily Left and some others who talked about it being possible for all new cars to be zero-emission cars in 2025. I have even received criticism of leadership in some of the country's most important newspapers to just present this goal. Today I expect that it will be unanimous or almost unanimous that the Storting is in favour of such a goal. It's a big step in the right direction. Because we have to have so high ambitions to achieve the targets of 40 pst. greenhouse gas emission saving up to 2030. After 2025 new private cars, city buses and light goods vehicles shall be a zero-emission vehicle. By 2030 new heavy goods vehicles, 75 pst. of new long-distance buses and 50 pst. of new trucks: zero-emission vehicles. In 2050, transport shall be nearly emission-free. This means that we have to keep the benefits of a zero-emission vehicle today. We have to keep them so long that we actually achieve the goal. We need to use the entire tax system to make pollution more expensive, while at the same time buying the environmentally friendly options, and we need to build an infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles across the country. Enova will be essential to achieve this. Biofuels are also important in the setting up of the Committee. It is one of the areas where we have done the most in recent years, both by increasing the sales ban, exemption from biodiesel taxes and the introduction of taxes on natural gas in order to make biogas profitable. We have also introduced a lower landing charge for biofuels on aeroplanes. Let us now include: have a plan for a further escalation of the marketing obligation for biofuels up to 11 pst. by 2020. At the same time, we need to look at different models to support biogas supply and vehicle infrastructure and roll-out projects. Green shipping is a central part of what Norway can really compete with in the years ahead. We have an offensive initiative on green shipping in the message. The majority will propose that we strengthen and clarify the hydrogen action plan. There is such an action plan in the Communication, but it has been reinforced in the Committee's work. The hydrogen vehicle currently has the same tax advantages as electric cars, and we want to continue these to 2025 or until there are 50,000 fuel cell cars on the road. It's an ambitious goal, and the first step in this is, of course, to get more hydrogen filling stations – which can cover the whole country. The first stations will enter the order for Enova, so these can be put in place as early as next year. We make an order against the National Transport Plan to look at the possibilities within the Norwegian railway system where we do not currently have electrified operations. In the Norwegian industry, in the quota sector, much needs to be done in the coming years, both because of the need to reduce emissions, in order for Norwegian industry to retain its status as a leading climate-friendly business, and because we are to develop new technologies that can help reduce global emissions. Carbon capture and storage are important and become even more important in the decades ahead with the Paris Agreement's ambition to reach a 1.5 degree target. This means that we have to have negative emissions at an international level in the past. This means that carbon capture and storage will need a completely different pressure over the years to come, and Norway will have to lead in this process. The government is asked to set a target of 10 TWh of reduced energy use in existing buildings, compared to the current level. This will release energy that can replace fossil energy. Finally, I would like to mention something that is important for the Left, and that is that in the setting we have achieved a great victory for the protection of watercourses by confirming that the protection plan for watercourses is leading, and that one there should not allow new expansions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2115	In today's business 3rd June we could read that the energy message has become a climate notification. ‘Now it is no longer just a notification of power, but a communication of climate’, said the Committee’s chairperson, Left Vice-Chairman Ola Elvestuen. «We have added a new dimension» said the Øyvind Korsberg of the Progress Party. Some of the new dimension was – as I read the article after Elvesuen’s statement – that there will only be sales of zero-emission cars in 2025, and that there was an actual situational description of the time after 2025. The representative of Korsberg said to DN in the same article that he fully agreed. So far, everything seems very well, but to try to clear up a little bit of the conceptual confusion: the energy message – or the power message – has not become a climate message, even though the committee leader now kind of repeats it. The energy message has two pages, as we see it. It is informative – praise for it – and it tells a lot about history and the present, while at the same time it contains nothing about the future. For two and a half years, we have heard that the answers that the government could not provide should be given when it comes to climate, industrial development and energy policy for the future. Those answers were to be given in the Energy Communication. The answers did not come. There was no guidance on the future of the energy communication. There was no answer about climate. There was no response on business development, and there was no response on future energy policy, perhaps – with the best intention – with a few exceptions. In the past, the majority of Storting has asked for clarifications in a number of areas of energy communication. Let me mention someone: hydrogen strategy, sea wind strategy, a solution for reinvestment needs in older power plants, and a renewable energy industry strategy has been requested. But there was no hydrogen strategy. It was not a wind power strategy or offshore sea wind strategy. There was no solution to the reinvestment need for older power plants, nor was there any renewable energy strategy that could develop new forward-looking industry in Norway. It's like looking for the needle in the max. The energy message must be read carefully and with kindness if political instructions of importance are to be found. In other words, when the majority in their presentation of the consensus in today's business on 3 June refers to this as a climate announcement, it becomes very wrong. But the vote, which is largely based on the proposed representative document 8:51 S, contains many good climate perspectives. Yes, most of the setting is about climate, and not the energy message's starting point and base. The representative proposal deals with a number of concrete climate action The Labour Party agrees. That was also the basis of this proposal Right, Progress Party, Left and Christian People's Party negotiated – at least it looked like that, based on what was presented. Of course, we are pleased with the proposals we are now receiving from the majority, but at the same time it is important to stress that both energy and climate policy are in fact more united than the majority of them represent. It would have been a real opportunity for more and more concrete proposals if the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left had chosen to include widely, from the Green, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, and got them into the dialogue. But we understood that it was not desirable – unfortunately, I would say. The consequences are – and you can see it very clearly now – that when you try to reconcile two extreme points, the consensus usually becomes very unclear or little concrete. On a case-by-case basis, we have repeatedly been reminded that it is the Progress Party that is at the forefront of climate policy but that gets its political legitimacy in terms of climate through the Left. It does not benefit climate policy, nor do the parties that have climate high on the agenda, and it has the Left. The left says there should be only zero-emission cars in 2025. I believe in Left. I choose to base the left-hand expression. But is that what the majority actually says? They refer correctly to the recommendations made by transport states regarding the national transport plan, but I have not yet heard that the Progress Party says that they will implement what is recommended by the authorities. It has been impossible, through the committee procedure, to clarify how the objective of only zero-emission cars in 2025 is to be achieved. Do you want to get there by twisting the tax system, or isn't it? Can only zero-emission vehicles be achieved in 2025 without a ban? Can this be achieved by continuing a policy where fossil energy is price-fixed, while renewable energy is becoming more expensive, as they continue in their majority view in this position? Can such a measure be achieved without a massive effort on the development of charging points and infrastructure for both electricity and hydrogen — a significant upgrading of current activity and resource use? Of course not. Therefore, it is a pity that the majority does not clarify how the decision is to be implemented — if it is intended then. I expect the majority through the debate to clarify exactly this – how to achieve the objective of only zero-emission cars in 2025 – and to clarify what the decision actually contains, what it actually is to understand, and how it will affect people's everyday lives. In a number of proposals, we see in concrete terms that the proposals are being made unclear. Much has to be investigated further and much has to be assessed in the national transport plan. In other areas, there are only targets, without knowing how to achieve the targets. Enoch is an example. 10 TWh energy savings in existing building stock is an ambitious target. We agreed to this objective in the course of the committee procedure. But how is such a goal to be achieved? The government and the support parties have introduced a so-called tax deduction scheme for an increase in households. The confession is that it doesn't work. We're for the goal, but we would like to have a plan to show you how to achieve the goals. But the majority are blocking this. They set a goal without specifying how the goal should be met, including here. Another immeasurability is the lack of instructions on what to prioritize in the energy message. One of these areas is the need for reinvestment in older power plants. It is stated in the message: ‘It is of great value to our power system that the hydropower that is already being developed is maintained and further developed. Much of Norwegian hydropower production is built in the years following the war and at the end of the 1980s. There is therefore a significant need for maintenance and reinvestment in the future.» Except where there is no indication of how to increase the level of reinvestment in order to maintain the values. Energy Norway said in the hearing: ‘It is particularly striking that when one of the main challenges identified in the Communication is the basis for socio-economic profitable investments in renewable energy, the government does not discuss the tax environment for hydropower.’ We fully agree with Energy Norway in this area. Therefore, an overall opposition considers that there is a need to review and obtain incentives in the context of the 2017 State budget. For the Workers' Party, there are two main priorities for the use of force in the future. The first is the relationship to new industrial growth as the basis for future value creation. The second is to exchange fossil energy with renewable energy. They're not prioritized to each other, so it's prepared. But if we are to succeed in attracting larger forward-looking investments in new growth in industry, it must be within the framework of the low-carbon society. Then we have to be able to say what we're going to use the force and the power surplus of. It cannot be better than to use it for new industrial growth and at the same time to exchange fossil energy use with renewable energy use. The notification does not discuss this. I want to give tribute to the majority that, fortunately, it has brought about the relationship with industry and the need for a basis for it to evolve towards the low-emission society. But it was empty for this in the message. An overall opposition proposes further concrete action, which does not receive a majority, in relation to it. Summary: The setting should, of course, be clearer. The decisions should have been more. They should be more concrete than what has happened. It should have been cleared up in a number of uncertainties that lie in the majority, not least that relating to the transport sector, and what it will look like in 2025. I hope that the debate will resolve that. An overall opposition is behind 25 non-majority proposals. The Labour Party is behind 40 proposals that do not receive a majority – only in the context of the Energy Communication. This tells of a weak starting point and a weak base. I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Labour Party either alone or as co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2155	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2158	First, let me thank the case rapporteur, Tina Bru, for a great job in a very demanding and comprehensive case. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Committee has many points to consider – not least many representative proposals. I also want to take the opportunity to give praise and honor to the Left and Christian People's Party for having had a great degree of cooperation and ability. We appreciate that. All parties may not have been as constructive in this way. As the rapporteur pointed out, 17 years have passed since the last energy message was submitted, and then you can ask yourself the question of why the red-green government did not promote an energy message. I think a lot of the answer lies in the vote, and not least in the 99 proposals that the opposition has promoted. There are basically proposals from the previous government parties, 92 of the proposals are at least from the red-green previous government parties, and then you can see why you have not received an energy message for Stortinget under the red-green ones. This is simply because the disagreement has been extensive and big. And these parties have ambitions to rule the country after 2017! It doesn't promise well if that should happen. What has been important is that we have taken into account that the energy market and energy policy in the countries around us have changed significantly since the last energy communication. Developments are taking place quickly. The Paris Agreement has confirmed an international commitment to increased efforts for emission reductions and reinforced the work on climate adaptation. Energy production and use are the key to success, and Norway has a good starting point in meeting these changes. We have an energy supply with very low greenhouse gas emissions, we increase the share of renewable energy in our overall energy use, we have an efficient energy supply, we have large renewable resources, we have a well-developed transmission system that covers the whole country, and we are early on taking up new technological opportunities. There will also be challenges in the energy field in the future. The population is going to grow in the years to come. Industry and business must be further developed, new industries will emerge, and changes in international energy markets will affect us and may challenge us in both energy security and profitability in the energy sector. We go into a period of great need for reinvestment in Norwegian energy supply. What happens around us characterizes us. On the latest news, we have seen that Sweden has a new energy policy, and we can see that to a great extent. I'm glad we're getting a national framework for wind power. In recent years many wind power concessions have been granted that have not been realised. In some cases, projects have led to considerable conflict and considerable resources have been used both in industry and in administration. There is a need to govern more strongly where concessions are sought in the future. The objective of the national framework for wind power is to mitigate the level of conflict and to facilitate the choice of the best wind power facilities in the future. I think it's important to get there. The transport sector has been mentioned and will be an important sector in the future. I will not try to clarify the confusion of Terje Aasland – he must stand for himself – but at least I am very pleased that we have reached a broad and good agreement that the transport sector will be important in the future. There is no ban on the sale of petrol or diesel cars. Prohibition and punishment are not instruments the Progress Party wants to use. We want to use carrots. We want to use positive instruments. We want to use the tools that give consumers an opportunity. That is also why the Progress Party, together with the Cooperation Parties and the Right, has made a major contribution to hydrogen stations in the future, as it will be an important contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2177	Energy is important, because it is driving more and more of the things around us, but also because the production of energy is so closely linked to the greatest challenge of our time, namely climate change. In the processing of the energy message, we have taken a big message, some of which has been called a power message, put on a clear climate perspective and made something that is really an energy message, and that deals with both the production and the use of energy. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with this. That the Committee sees the energy messages together with Document 8:51 is a good solution. This gives us the opportunity to adopt a single policy instead of dealing with two different issues that have so many overlapping elements. The Christian People's Party believes that the energy message has been strengthened by the Storting's handling of the matter. It has been established that large-scale expansion of sheltered watercourses with argument on flood damping should not be opened. An ambitious energy efficiency target has been put in place, it has been established that municipalities still have the possibility of using a district heating connection obligation, and that the government is given the task of providing a support mechanism for the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and other sea-based renewable technologies. In particular, the Christian People's Party is doomed to have stopped the government's notified expert selection, which would look at the concession power and fee. This has caused a lot of concern in many power stations, and it is important to have this dead. The concession schemes are important for many municipalities and are a reasonable compensation for land and nature interference in the municipalities. For greenhouse gas emissions to be cut, ambitious but also achievable targets must be set. It is therefore very gratifying that there is a majority in favour of requesting the government in the context of the submission of the 2017 government budget to make the emission levels of each sector visible in the non-quota sector. The submission shall address sectoral objectives based on an assessment of the implications of this proposal for Norway. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of having a good overview of what measures are needed in the non-quota sector to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction objectives. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Green Party last year, was given an impact on the development of a climate law, in order to systematically commit ourselves to following the climate goals. It will be an important tool for domestic climate change and a very central tool for controlling and maintaining pressure in climate change. The Christian People's Party expects the law to authorize sectorial carbon budgets based on fixed cut targets and annual reporting to the Stortinget. Such climate legislation must oblige any government to follow up its climate objectives and provide a tool for systematic reporting on the actions taken. The size must ensure that all societal planning goes in the same direction, if we are to avoid the most dramatic impacts of changing climate. The United Kingdom has gained good experience with its climate legislation, which was adopted in 2008. The British law legislates an 80 pst. reductions in greenhouse gas emissions up to 2050, by 1990 as reference year. They already see that the law is a good tool for creating long-term binding policy solutions. If we are to achieve the ambitious objectives, we must also have an instrument to enable this. Therefore, Enova, in interaction with the other instrument, becomes a key instrument in the development of future energy systems and the low-carbon society. The new governance agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova for the period 2017-2020 must reflect a reinforced climate action and priority needs to be given to projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This also includes technology projects that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally, and it is important that focus on technology development is directed towards areas where we already have special competences. Directly reduced greenhouse gas emissions and technological development contributing to greenhouse gas emission reductions must be an overall target for Enova. This means that Enova must continue to have a high degree of professional freedom to develop tools and to allocate individual projects. The governance model must contribute to efficient resource use and enable Enova to address the main barriers to the introduction and deployment of energy and climate solutions and to promote sustainable market changes. This means that Enova must be able to have projects from all sectors. Overall, Enova is one of the main means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and replacing fossil energy use with renewable energy sources in order to achieve the 2030 targets. This is the Christian People's Party well pleased with. Domesticly in Norway, the transport sector accounts for the largest use of fossil energy, with a consumption of about 54 TWh in 2014. It is therefore important that the transport sector contributes a large proportion of the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the non-quota sector. It is therefore essential to facilitate the use of renewable energy in the transport sector and to phase fossil energy use out of the transport sector. In order to achieve this, it is an important step on the road that the national transport plan for 2018-2029 sets out measures for the number of low- and zero-emission vehicles in 2025 following adopted climate objectives and the technological potential of the trades, and it is gratifying that there is a majority in this respect. But it's not enough with a target, we're also going to achieve this goal. Then more electric cars, sustainable biofuels and a hydrogen bet are needed. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that a network of hydrogen stations be established in the largest cities and corridors between them. Furthermore, it is important that hydrogen is also assessed for future use on ferries and on routes that are currently not electrified. The position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment also strengthens the commitment to biofuels, and the Christian People's Party supports this. The future is electric, it's said. That's a lot right in there. Norway is in a privileged situation because we have a surplus of renewable energy. Green certificates have been an important element in moving from power deficits to power surpluses. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the instruments are adapted to the needs of the future. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the phase-out of the green certificates and the use of the application of the online tariff to strengthen Enova. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that this provides room for innovation and development of new energy and climate solutions adapted to the future. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that the result of Storting's treatment of the energy message is an energy message pointing forward with an offensive commitment to achieving a low- and zero-emission society. This is the Christian People's Party well pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2211	The energy message we are dealing with today has an ambitious title, but it has a content that is surprisingly weak. To a small extent, the government chose to identify strategic actions that could bring Norwegian energy policy into a new phase, a phase of climate change and growth in existing and new businesses. The communication shows more about the good work of bureaucracy and the description of a strong energy system and less about the government's expressed ambitions. It is true that it is 17 years since the last energy message was submitted – by the undersigned, in fact – and one may well well ask why the red-green government did not provide an energy message. One might also ask why the civil government in 2001–2005 did not provide an energy report. I think it's quite pointless. I'm not going to wonder if the bourgeois parties disagreed in the four years they've been sitting, but I think it's strange that parties that now so often talk down about eight red-green years, in their description in the energy message, are leaning so heavily on the frames that were laid off, among other things. Government Councils of the Central Party between 2005 and 2013. This was launched and implemented under the red-green government with regard to the expansion and the major investment in the development of the transmission system. There was no simple debate, there was a rather demanding debate, which the red-green government had conducted. The whole big bet on green certificates, which are referred to as positive in the message, was maritimely initiated by and carried out under the red-green government. The energy message presented today is unfortunately a message with few measures, but with a very good description, first of all a description of what the red-green government carried out in the period we were sitting. The problem with today's message is that there is no sea wind strategy there, there is no hydrogen strategy – there are really quite a few thoughts about the time and the bet after the green certificates, and climate-related issues have little been drawn up. The centre party lacks strategic action that could bring Norwegian energy policy into a new phase, a phase that, in the opinion of the Centre Party, will be strongly influenced by the need for climate change. We are therefore pleased that the position is much more ambitious in terms of climate, climate change, technology, transport and the role of Enova than the government chose to propose. On the part of the Centre Party, it is important to set some long-term objectives for energy policy and for energy efficiency improvement. The period of green certificates must be replaced by new initiatives — on technology, on the commercialisation of renewable energy, in particular in the fields of hydrogen, sea wind and solar energy. Climate change will benefit, and if political leadership is present and aware of its time of visit, green growth, business development and jobs could be created. The Norwegian power system is solid, on which several speakers have been involved, and we have a good basis for much of the work done in the power sector – through a large share of renewable hydropower, a good concession system, for protection and for industrial use. It is a system that has served us well and that we should not particularly rock. One of the things the Center Party has missed in the message is to discuss the question of how to distribute the network costs in the years to come. We know that new production is going to be introduced into the Internet in some other ways than before, and the network costs for different consumers are very different today. Much of it is about natural causes. We believe from our point of view that network costs are a social cost that should be distributed fairly equally to all users in the system, which is not happening in today's system. We have therefore considered that it is absolutely necessary to adjust regional disadvantages through political action, either by means of a separate balancing mechanism or by strengthening the State grant scheme to offset transfer tariffs, which this government has treated as dynamically over the three years they have been sitting as they have done. I am pleased that the Labour Party, SV and the Green Party support us on this issue, but I am all the more surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not. The alarm went to the powerhouses when it became known that an expert selection had to be set up to look at the concession power and concession fee scheme. On the basis of resistance from the Storting, the Council of State has now announced that he has removed the sample. But I would like to stress that when the Council of State actually keeps the door open by saying that he is going to propose changes through so-called improvements and simplifications, there is reason to point a index to it. It must not be that the government's plans are really intact, but that someone now intends to address the issue in a different way than to set up an expert committee. That is why the Centre Party – and I am counting on the majority of the population – is going to follow very carefully the movements of the government in this area. It is a reality that a majority in the UK does not want so-called improvements or simplifications that will reduce the value creation and income of the Norwegian power stations. Earlier today, Stortinget has carried out the highest level of sovereignty in a decade – at express speed and without providing sufficient information. That is why I think there is also reason to refer to the comments made by many parties regarding the EU Energy Union and the need for more knowledge about how this will shape the Norwegian energy field in the coming years, perhaps Norway's relationship with the EU Energy Agency ACER. I have registered that the Council of State has indicated that we have not read the message at this point. It is true that there are ten sides to the EU and energy policy. Much of it's about climate. disappearing little is about the EU Energy Union, and even less is about ACER and the influence it can have on Norwegian energy policy. A large number of proposals have been made through the position of the Energy and Environment Committee, both from the position and the opposition. This might have been the case when the government actually left the Storting to design such a large part of the policy. It has its advantages and disadvantages, I have to say. We are in favour of many of the proposals relating to climate policy, but we have also been reluctant to address some of the proposals that could have been politically interesting, and that is because we believe that some of the proposals belong to the next year's government budget. A wide range of proposals belong to the consideration of the national transport plan — and deserve to be seen in the context of the other challenges we face in the transport sector, rather than to treat them slightly through today’s energy message. I think it is really important that everyone is aware that there are now many parallel processes that will all have implications for the Norwegian energy sector and climate policy – the industrial notification, the Committee of Experts on Green Competitiveness, the strategy for bioeconomy, the Green Tax Commission and, in particular, the follow-up to the Paris objectives towards 2030. It is necessary to fill it with good policy content, but it has to be done in more contexts than in an energy message. With regard to transport proposals, we will wait and come back to it in next year's national transport plan. For the Central Party, it has been important that we have a clear strategic direction for energy policy. We have to have some clear requirements to go after. We must – as we have done – use the renewable resources that this country sits on, exploit more of them in a better way than before, and create green growth through all the opportunities that this country has had on the energy side. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions the Center Party is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2249	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2258	The message from the Paris climate conference was clear: if we are to be able to stop the dangerous climate change, everyone must go home and do more than they have promised. It's amazing how the government has failed to bring this main message from Paris. If you are wondering why climate change emissions are rising in Norway, just look at the government's lack of climate change in the energy notification submitted. Nina Jensen in WWF said that after waiting 17 years for an energy report, we could have waited 17 more years when you saw what was coming. I agree with her, as while the Norwegian climate emissions are rising. A unanimous big crowd asked for a plan to phase out fossil energy. There's no such plan in the energy message. A unanimous demand from Stortinget for a sea wind bet is hardly mentioned. The same applies to the directive of the Stortinget on a hydrogen strategy. What's in the message is not a strategy. There is no commitment to energy efficiency improvement in construction in the notification, despite the fact that countless investigations have pointed to the potential. Despite the fact that about one sixth of energy consumption takes place offshore — and it is under his own department — the Minister of Energy has only ignored that energy use, although there is a potential here to phase out fossil energy use and replace it with renewables. The only powerful grip that lies in the energy message – or I might say the powerless grip – is the abolition of green certificates. Thus, the bones are suspended under a renewable industry at the start-up stage. The government tends to say that they are followers of predictable framework conditions, but what do you say to an industry that has had certificates for barely four years, which has at least so long life on its projects, and in many cases much more? No, the people who run the oil nation Norway are self enough and will not bet on speeding up the green shift. They're proposing 5 billion. kr i cut off Statkraft’s offshore wind power deployment, two-thirds reductions in support for renewable energy development in developing countries, cut all renewable energy support from 2021 onwards and not one ear extra to renewable energy until 2032, if we understand the majority comments correctly. There is a long-term outlook for the renewable industry, but unfortunately with a wrong sign. We have a government that has not promoted a single proposal that significantly cuts climate emissions. The result is that climate change emissions are increasing in line with the declared climate minister's plans. What's good about the energy message comes from Stortinget. SV promoted earlier in the year 49 proposals for climate change. Other parties have made other proposals. I would like to refer to the proposal I understand is going to have unanimity here later today: ‘The size asks the Government of the draft National Transport Plan for 2018-2029 to set targets for the number of low- and zero-emission vehicles, including passenger cars, vans, buses and heavy-duty vehicles in 2025 following adopted climate objectives and the technological potential of the trade unions.’; It is strange that it is only we and the Green Party that refer to the technological potential as it emerges from the trade unions and recommendations there in the notes. So I'd like to do it now, so it's referred to here in the Storting: The transport modes propose the following objectives and measures which they believe could lead to 50 pst. emissions cut by 2030: new ferries and fast boats shall use biofuels, low or zero-emission technologies – as of now. By 2025 shore electricity and charging current shall be available to ships in the main ports and in the other ports with the highest potential for emission reductions. Until zero-emission vehicles take over, petrol and diesel cars sold shall be rechargeable hybrids and shall be able to use biofuels as much as possible. After 2025 new private cars, city buses and light goods vehicles shall be a zero-emission vehicle. By 2030 new heavy goods vehicles, 75 pst. of new long-distance buses and 50 pst. of new trucks: zero-emission vehicles. By 2030, the distribution of goods shall be nearly emission-free, in line with the EU's ambition. By 2030 40 pst. of all ships engaged in short sea voyages using biofuels or being low-emission or zero-emission vessels. By 2030 at least 30 pst. the fuel for domestic and foreign aviation is biofuel. Public bodies shall use biofuels, low- and zero-emission technologies as far as possible in their own and leased-in vehicles and vessels, and by 2050 the transport sector shall be nearly emission-free or climate-neutral. This is what the trade unions say. So these ten points must be followed up in the national transport plan if we are to be able to achieve the ambitions that lie there. The decision today is going to be unanimous. This is in line with the proposals put forward by SV in its 49 proposals for climate change in the transport sector. The test of whether this is followed up, we get quite soon, when the national transport plan is presented during the next major year. I have to say that I have little faith that the Council of State will present a national transport plan for Ketil Solvik-Olsen, where he proposes that 50 pst be done. climate change in the transport sector up to 2030. I see that it's naive, but we'll see, and then we'll wish all those who are going to try to influence him, good luck. In addition, positive things come from Storting's treatment. Finally, a unanimous growth says no that we should be able to use fossil fuel oil both as a base load and as a top load in commercial buildings and in households. We'll be waiting for the draft of the law to come. Now that the decision is made, I expect the climate minister to be able to tell us when the bill will come. He and the forerunner have already spent three years on it. There's a target of 10 TWh reduced energy use in existing building masses, and it's crucial to bring people into climate change. Too few grips have been aimed at getting people to join in and know the seriousness of the situation. You never know the seriousness as much as when you get to participate and contribute. I am glad that the Left and Christian People's Party got this through in negotiations with the government. There is no doubt that these decisions are more ambitious than the Workers' Party's proposal, and they are infinitely more ambitious than the Government's proposals as they are in the Energy Communication. The great cross of thought for the Left and Christian People's Party, as we have also heard the Workers' Party challenge the Left on earlier today, is that they must be responsible for almost none of the decisions we take today having a significant impact on emissions during this government period – the period in which the Left and the Christian People's Party have their hands on the wheel, and the period in which the Paris Summit said it was crucial that we cut. Meanwhile, emissions in Norway are increasing, in line with the climate minister's plans. We have a couple more positive things. We get a tightening of the expansion of sheltered watercourses. Henrik Asheim from the Right and State Council Tord Lien wants to expand in sheltered watercourses to a much, much greater extent than the bulk of the population now determines that we should have. Now this is to be presented to the Storting and only considered in cases where health and safety are at stake and in those contexts where nature's own flood suppression potential has been exhausted. We refuse to touch the concession power regime as it is today, but there are questions about this that remain unresolved, all the time the government and the supporting parties say they should keep looking at it. So a climate report, says Ola Elvestuen, and I realized that Tina Bru has also said that – she gets to correct me if I am wrong. There is nothing in this Communication that obliges the government to present a proposal for significant climate change during this government period, either on the car tax side or on the biofuels side – it should be able to come between 2019 and 2020. It is a paradox that very ambitious targets are now being set for what kind of car park we are going to have from 2025 onwards, while the Left and Christian People's Party has given the government a blank mandate to maintain the environmental requirement of 85 grams of CO2 per kilometer driven for the car park all the way up to 2020 – in other words, no real tightening from today. It is easy to set ambitious targets for the future, but if we are to stop dangerous climate change, action now counts – not how many or how ambitious goals you set for the future. The right-hand party government is the best example of that. They have done nothing but to blame the previous government and not to act on their own, and it is therefore a government that governs with the blessing of the Left and Christian People's Party. I dare remember that in the red-green period the climate emissions fell, while in this period they have increased. I'm dealing with the proposals we're on, and we should have seen that it was a majority for, but we don't get a majority for this time. But some of them, after all, we've had a majority in favour, and we're happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2308	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2311	Today, we are debating an attitude on how force can lead to change. The work on the Communication has shown how political power can create change, but also how unwillingness to use political force fully leads to semi-good results rather than really good results. Today, a majority of a number of energy and climate policy measures are welcomed by the Greens. We are voting in favour of any proposal that has a majority today. We congratulate the government on moving significantly in a greener direction. We congratulate the Left and Christian People's Party on – I guess – having much of the credit for this. We congratulate the Workers' Party and the Centre on having more committed ambitions than the government has committed itself to, and by helping to push the majority in the right direction. And we congratulate the SV on being ahead of us, along with the Greens/Greens/EFA, and draw climate policy into energy policy. Today, the Stortinget strengthens the requirements of the upcoming climate law, such as: The Greens agreed to propose that it should be a tool to replace fossil energy with renewable energy, including: through annual reporting and sectoral runway requirements, as our original intention was. This significantly strengthens the possibility that Norway will finally be able to launch a systematic, committed and comprehensive energy and climate policy, which we have thus missed up to now, and which we urgently need when we are going to implement large emissions cuts. Unanimity of commitment to a marine wind demonstration project means that the Environment Party of the Greens adopted – in rounded form – a while ago, and then the boycott of the government both in the treatment of State power and in the energy message, now, hopefully, is to be realized. Together with the agreement on a national framework for wind power, this provides better predictability for the wind industry and better opportunities for exploiting wind power within the framework of Norwegian nature. Strengthening the deployment of electric car charging networks and, in particular, the development of hydrogen in the transport sector and industry will, if implemented, be an important technology challenge. Today’s decision to make 10 TWh energy efficiency improvements in the construction sector also means – if it is realized – that we ‘produce’ 10 TW of energy out of nothing. It is also a gift to a construction sector that will benefit from such requirements as to strengthen the industry’s future competitiveness. Together with an extended ban on oil firing and a decision to improve the organisation of plus solar customers, it draws the contours of a building sector that can become an important supplier of solutions in a green shift. And – almost astonishingly, I have to say – in a period when Stortinget has applied Norwegian nature to a whole series of really ugly wounds, Stortinget places restrictions on the development of sheltered watercourses. The government's proposal that it was outrageous in its indifferent disregard for Norwegian natural values and for professional and nature protection obligations. So on behalf of Norwegian nature and many hundreds of thousands of Norwegian conservationists, I would like to thank the Stortinget for exactly this. The big business has raised an ambitious and unreserved energy message to a stoppage and a series of decisions that link energy and climate policy. The size has done a good job. But it should also be lacking, because Norway is now taking on commitments to the EU about large, concrete emissions reductions at home. At the same time, the even more demanding realities of the ambitions of the Paris Agreement are slowly sinking into Norwegian policy. The whole of Norwegian society is facing a huge task of delivering on these demands, and this is no longer just pious political desires, that's what we're pucking have to do, and it's fast. It is therefore also necessary to note that the decisions for which there is a majority today are too few and they are too daft. The majority, in their remarkable way in this political process, have picked up various proposals from the opposition parties, including the Greens' Environment Party, watered them out into partially unclear objectives and commitments and made them their own. Why wait until committee reading to do this instead of presenting something in the Energy Communication that was a bit juicy, perhaps the Minister of Energy can respond afterwards. It says a lot about the impatience in Stortinget that there is also a large number of more offensive proposals in the vote, not least from the Greens/Greens/EFA, as well as further long series of proposals promoted by other parties on their own matters. This says something about an unfulfilled political potential in energy and climate policy. In several areas, we are unable to get the majority. Most alarmingly, the majority may support the government’s proposal to wind up the renewable energy certificate scheme without simultaneously developing a new support system. The Green Party is not against the green certificates, but we are not at all dependent on doing so without anything else in place. We are in a situation where, in 2016, we phase out the renewable energy support schemes while maintaining massive subsidisation of the oil industry. It's a very risky signal, and it has to be corrected. The majority in Stortinget therefore still believe that Norwegian oil policy has nothing to do with Norwegian energy policy. The fossil comrades from the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Right, and the Center Party, with its varying support players, maintain that this is good climate policy, for example. adding 900 million tonnes of extra CO2 to the earth's atmosphere, which is what will come out of burning up the oil from the Johan Sverdrup field, and perhaps even more hundreds of millions of tonnes from new fields in the 23rd concession round, only by power from land. As long as this intrusive real-life denial underpins Norwegian energy and climate policy, Norway will labor to do its part of the climate work and labor to get us through a green shift, which is a prerequisite for well-being and a secure future. I initially said that the work on the Energy Communication has demonstrated how political power can create change, but also how unwillingness to use the political force leads to semi-good results instead of really good. The job The Left and Christian People's Party has done to move the government, is good. The job The Labour Party and the Centre Party have done to show higher and more committed ambitions than the government has done is also good. But what if all the parties that think they're green actually give priority to being green at the top? The treatment of energy communication is the best example so far in this period of the opportunities offered by the Greens' Greens' Greens' invitation to put pressure on both the Right and the Workers' Party. How far could we get with the Right if the election they were facing was the majority of the green parties or the vote? The Labour Party has far better proposals than the government, but they are worse than the Greens and SVs. How far could we get with the Workers' Party if they had to choose between fossil consensus with the Right and a significantly more ambitious policy with the greenest parties? The Green Party's experience from Oslo suggests that we can make them go far. This is a crucial issue in Norwegian policy: how willing are the parties that call themselves environmental parties to give priority to power in environmental policy? And how far does it really go to push the Right and the Workers' Party whose environment determines majority and minority? The processing of the energy message suggests that these parties can be pushed much further than we have now, and the time until the 2017 election should be used to do just that. I'm addressing the suggestions we've been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2348	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The next speaker is Councillor Tord Lien. While Tord Lien is going up, the President will note that the 'fossil comrades' may not be a full parliamentary expression. It wasn't for you; it was just said as you went up!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2355	My mother used to say: The lead was still after the quick. I wondered if it was a council the president would give, in case I should say something I shouldn't have said, but it wasn't. It's okay to have it clarified. Let me begin by thanking both the Committee and, not least, the rapporteur and the majority for their good work on this communication. The message describes, as many have pointed out — and I think that is natural in such a message — the fact that we began to reap from our fantastic hydropower resources more than 100 years ago and created the basis for the industrialisation of Norway and the development of the welfare state. We have also tried to describe how the energy management and the principles of energy management have served us all very well, given that we have developed a starting point where the energy resources are to be harvested and managed in a way that benefits the entire Norwegian people. Both the power management and later the oil and gas management have served us all very well. We have also tried in the Energy Communication to describe how the countries around us now face major challenges in their power system with large impacts of animals and controversy – at least in many countries – nuclear power and large impacts of polluting coal power, which are both controversial and significantly contributing to greenhouse gas emissions, and how many countries face increasing challenges with the integration of new renewable, non-regulatable power, such as wind and sun, while in Norway we have a completely different and very good starting point for the future. We have large renewable energy resources in the form of the hydropower we have developed and the hydropower we can develop in the future, but also in the form of wind, both along the coast and in large parts of the inland. We have an energy supply that, despite being a large country with a relatively pig-grown population, is efficient and safe and has very low greenhouse gas emissions. It is often forgotten that if we had replaced our power supply with a power supply that had a very similar energy mix to the energy mix in Europe, the electricity supply alone in Norway would have represented one and a half times the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, but it does not, because it is based on renewable energy sources. We also use this fantastic renewable energy for much more than most of our neighbouring countries, not only for heat in our houses, but to a greater and greater extent and more than any other country, also for mobility and transport. We have built a good transmission system in this large country, which has strengthened the efforts of this government. We will soon have all our parts of the country connected to a well-functioning 420 kV network, and we are – and that is important today, and will become more important in the future – early on to take up new technological opportunities. This is a good starting point for important energy and climate work in the time ahead. We haven't come here by ourselves, and it's not going to be maintained by itself in the future either. That is why we have presented this Communication, where security of supply, climate and value creation are seen in the context. Despite the fact that the world around us has changed at record speed, it is the first time in 17 years that such a message has been made. One of the major changes is that we are getting closer and closer to the energy markets around us. More networks are being built, and there is therefore more cross-border trade. This, of course, also means that we need allies in our work towards the European Union. Nordic cooperation is thus becoming more important. I am pleased that before the weekend, a single parliament – all the parties in Riksdagen – underlined the importance of continued strong Nordic cooperation, as the government has also stressed in its energy communication. We also know that closer cooperation on energy policy is needed in the EU. You want to move away from 28+3 energy policies to something that looks more like one energy policy. This is a work that this government with several governments closely follows, in order to maintain overall Nordic and European interests, but also in order to ensure Norwegian special interests in the energy field in this work. Although things are good at large, we also have challenges to deal with in the future. Our energy system is solid, but it also needs to be upgraded and reinvested in. There is no doubt that the strong subsidies, both in Scandinavia and in North-West Europe, have led us to develop new industries and new production. The renewal surplus has increased, with the opportunities it offers, but it has also challenged the profitability of upgrading existing infrastructure. We also need to ensure, in the future, that the major cities of Norway and our industry have access to the power they need, both to maintain current consumption and to phase out fossil energy, for which the bourgeoisly overthrown Oslo has been a municipality of the past. The climate challenge requires us to use renewable energy in other parts of the country to a greater extent than is the case today. Against this background, we have presented an Energy Communication with four lines of action: Reinforced security of supply continue to create values with which we can finance the welfare state, based on our renewable energy resource more efficient and climate-friendly use of energy, primarily in industry and in the transport sector, to continue to develop an industry related to our renewable energy resources I've been thinking that we have a good network. In the future, there will be no increase in the volume of power either by the Norwegian power system or by the countries around us. What will create challenges for energy systems and power systems, especially in the future, is an imbalance in efficiency. We have dealt with some of these challenges in the past through close cooperation with Europe and not least the Nordic countries. It's natural that we do in the future as well. Then we need to continue developing and upgrading both the distribution and transmission networks, but we also need better coordination of production and consumption. So we have a very flexible system on the production side. Then we also need to develop a system with more flexibility on the consumption side in the future. We need to do that to make room for maximum wind power in the Norwegian system and to make room for as many electric cars as possible. Then we also have to have flexibility on the consumption side. Having more impact challenges in both our own and our neighbours' power systems in the future will make the hydropower even more valuable than it has been in the past. I've been listening to the debate for a while. I heard someone say that we haven't come up with any policy in this message. I want to go through what I understand I have the majority with me today. One is the suspension of the overall plan. We are asking for the introduction of a new instrument: early rejection of concession requests, which we have not had in the past. We are calling for the national framework for wind power. We call for Enova to have, for the first time, a climate target to be reported on. We call for Enova to give priority to transport and industry. We have notified that we want to ask the NVE to change the practice of objecting, so that the opposition authority and build up the meeting at the same meeting. We want to transfer the district heating concession to the municipalities. We have already – mentioned in the communication but already proposed or introduced – reduced the electricity charge for green data centres. We have opened up other ownership of non-residents than Statnett and the State. We have amended the industrial concession law, already adopted in Stortinget, which makes it more predictable for industry to own power generation. We have asked the NVE to consider keeping the input tariff in the lower network and to investigate it. The NVE is already in the process of introducing a positive customer base from next year, and we have stepped up our efforts on renewable energy. We have also called for an assessment of the concession power arrangements. I note that both the Central Party and the Workers' Party are definitely raining for politics, at least when I saw what noise it caused.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2401	I think the Council of State at the end of its article tried to appear a bit visionary on the basis of the message we are processing, but I must stress that he did not succeed very well. For government posts, there was a lot of memory about the message: good analysis, a good situation description, but the visions are missing. One of the issues that is much discussed in the Communication, which is quite significant in the future, is how we deal with the renewable energy we have already invested a lot, i.e. reinvestments, maintenance and upgrades of existing hydroelectric power plants. Energy Norway points out that they are concerned that the basis for socially profitable investments in renewable energy is not present. Then is my question to the Council of State: How does the Council of State assess the situation against the possibilities of reinvestment, and what is needed in order to be able to maintain the fantastic values that are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2408	I'm going to try to answer that, but I noticed that the representative of Aasland in his post made some reflections on whether this is a power message or a transport and climate message. When we presented this message, I was first pleased that the Workers' Party supported some of the most important steps right away, but I remember that then some of the criticism was that there was too little climate in the message. Now it almost sounds like there's too much climate in the setting. The Energy Communication has been largely welcomed by a significant majority in the Stortinget. Of course, I am pleased about that, but I note that there was too little climate first and too much climate now. Then I am glad that the balance lies somewhere between the Christian People's Party and the Left on the one hand and the Advance Party and the Right on the other. It's a very safe place to be. Then it is quite right that precisely because of the large subsidies in north-west Europe, also in Norway, for which we have participated and received a majority, there is a significant imbalance in the system now. Therefore, it is important that we use the power to strengthen the profitability of Norwegian hydropower plants in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2415	I register that the Council of State chooses not to respond. I find that regrettable, and I have to try again, because it is addressed a very clear problem related to existing older hydroelectric power plants in Norway, which sorely need reinvestment. They are built in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s and are now facing a precarious need for maintenance. And then it's very clearly signaled from a combined power industry, an overall producer environment, that the basis for socially profitable investments in renewable energy is not present. Then I ask again and hope that the Council of State will answer: How will the Council of State facilitate socio-economic profitable investments in renewable energy as a basis for reinvestment and maintenance of very valuable resources for Norway as a society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2420	We have made a thorough presentation in the Energy Communication of the need for the transmission network, where we are doing well, and also of the need for reinvestments in our hydropower systems. Then it is not that all the necessary investments are not business-economically profitable, but there is no doubt, as I have acknowledged several times, that the level of subsidies over time in both Norway, Sweden and other Europe has led to an unbalanced energy market. I think we'll explain that in the Energy Communication, how we, for example. should strengthen the Norwegian power-processing industry, how to use more force in the transport sector, but also how to facilitate increased exports over time. We've already given a concession to 2400 MW power cables that could contribute to a rebalanced power market, and we're just responding to Aasland's demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2425	A real disagreement between the government parties and the opposition in the energy message is the issue of ownership and operation of foreign tables. From the Central Party we believe that the foreign connections are de facto part of the central network. It is owned and operated by Statnett in Norway. It's a natural monopoly in many ways. The fact that it is now being reversed means that private actors are entering the central network and that the state is losing control with important infrastructure. It may also mean that producers enter the central network in practice. It's a double role we haven't had since Statnett and Statkraft plated layers a generation ago. The government also says that there should be no construction contribution for the construction of foreign dwellings. This means that, in reality, consumers, over the rental network, are paying for private international connections. So the consumer deal is that paying more on the grid for the cables is going to get a higher electricity price from Europe. Does the Council of State think it's an honest deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2433	What I want to say in the beginning is that we have built our entire power system on transmission networks, inter-national connections, towards our neighbouring country – towards Finland and primarily towards Sweden. We now have four cables in operation against Denmark, we have a cable in operation against the Netherlands. This has ensured that we get the best possible use of our power resources, and this has served Norwegian producers, foreign producers and not least Norwegian, Swedish and other consumers very, very well. Then we've been very clear that we're not going to change the concessional process. We're going to make sure that Statnet makes the assessments of how this affects the underlying network. There is, of course, something that national energy authorities will also include in their assessment of the overall socio-economic impact. Now I think the representative Marit Arnstad tells a slightly different story than what we've been trying to tell.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2438	We all know that we have had foreign relations for many years. There's no one who doesn't know. Of course we are aware of that. But the new thing here is that you want to let private in. And the new thing is that one then lets go of a bit of the strategic role that Statnett has, and one can also risk letting producers into the website. My question is, is it true that the government is not going to require construction contributions from the private people who are going to build foreign tables? What they do is they ask Norwegian consumers to cover the costs of the private building cables through the network lease. As a payment for it, Norwegian consumers also receive higher electricity prices, as one increases the electricity price through increased international connections. Does the Council of State think it's a good deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2445	Trafficking in power — including that between Norway and the rest of the world — is a good thing for everyone. It ensures an efficient energy system that serves everyone well. We've had this kind of discussions in the past about how to finance this kind of inter-national relationship. In terms of revenues based on the operation of the cable – now I have to be careful from Stortinget’s spokesman – I believe that when you gave the concession to the NorNed cable, it was expected to be in operation for more than three years before it was paid down, based on the revenues on the cable, but the phase was that it went far, much faster. So the trade itself creates incomes, which are shared between the owners. And in this case of private expansion, one can imagine that the builders finance the development based on that kind of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2452	Today, we are adopting several proposals that will make major demands on Enova, whether it is energy efficiency improvement of 10 TWh or support for new renewable energy, sea winds, etc. But not least the zero emission target in the transport sector, which is very ambitious, is 50 pst. reduction by 2030, in line with the proposals of the trade unions. However, this requires more than just action in Enova. It requires the follow-up of the national transport plan, it requires the follow-up of budgetary work, and it also requires the follow-up of many of the decisions taken locally. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: when he is about to make a new agreement with Enova, how does he intend to coordinate that work up against the national transport plan and up towards budgetary work, so that there is government policy as a whole behind achieving the objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2459	Let me first say thank you to the Left for being one of the parties that has secured the majority to uphold the principles of how we govern Enova. I believe some of the answer to that committee leader Elvesuen's demand here is precisely that Enova is so close to those who make the decisions. This, of course, applies to power-processing industries, and to a greater extent, we now see that it also applies to those involved in the transport sector. It is everything from car manufacturers to shipping companies operating in the West and elsewhere. I believe that there is a great strength in the fact that Enova is allowed to engage in dialogue and at the same time has a long-term framework for this work, in order to identify how to achieve the most in these areas. So the representative of Elvesuen is quite right: this can't be just Enova, this must also be about legislative designs, which are far from my department, and which I know that the representative of Elvesuen is looking forward to discussing with Ketil Solvik-Olsen and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2466	First, I just want to clear the way out of the impression that the Council of State is creating that there is the investment in renewable energy through green certificates that are what creates low power prices in the Nordic region. That is not the case, and the Council of State itself has presented it in an excellent way in the Single European Act, by pointing out that it is the EU's low quota prices and the low coal prices that are at the root of it. It added aside. What I'm going to challenge the Council of States is this: he mentioned in his statement that it is industry and transport that are Enova's main focus areas. But that's not true, because in addition, the Council of State has received a very clear message from the bulk of the population that there will be a cut of 10 TWh in the energy use of the existing housing stock during this period, until 2030. Then I ask the Council of State: how does he intend to formulate what Enova will achieve by this energy efficiency improvement by 2020, or how else does he intend to follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2473	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the representative Holmås: the price of allowances in the EU is too low. It has been a perspective that both my colleague Helgesen and I, together with several of our colleagues in the government, have carried to the European Union. It is absolutely necessary to achieve the most effective transition to a more sustainable energy system in Europe and to become rid of coal in the European power systems. We're not getting that with today's low quota prices. Then I am not in doubt that significant subsidisation of energy – also of coal, in fact – has also contributed to our getting there. With regard to the 10 TWh reduction target in existing buildings, there is no doubt that it will lead to challenges. It's going to be expensive, it's going to be about having to take action, for example. from Enova, which we already have in place, but also other measures. How this is to be delivered, we must be allowed to come back to. It's going to involve more government councils than me, among other things. Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2480	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2483	When we are going to bring down Norway's national emissions by 2030, and when we are going on towards the low-carbon society by 2050, the interaction between energy and climate policies is crucial. The rapporteur said in his statement that the Committee, not least the parties involved, has clearly defined the position. There is every reason to congratulate both the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. Energy policy needs to build on climate policy objectives and is one of Norway’s foremost resources to achieve climate objectives. We see that the world's energy systems are changing. The fall in the cost of renewable technologies and technological developments that facilitate smarter energy systems means that we can have an emission-free energy supply in the future. We have a fantastic starting point on the Norwegian side with our hydropower resources. The government will facilitate the profitable production of renewable energy in Norway, while maintaining natural values in a good way. The development of renewable energy shall be controlled and its development shall have a minimum negative impact on the environment. That is why I am pleased with several important and good measures in the concession system to strengthen this balance. We must contribute to the transition in Europe and globally. We are going to export pure force, we are going to export products produced with pure force, and we are going to contribute to the development of renewable technologies. It is therefore important that there is a support scheme for demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and other forms of ocean-based renewable technology. Transport is the largest emission source in Norway. The sector accounts for about one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. A significant part of the Norwegian climate has to be taken here. This was why the government for the first time asked for a separate climate strategy to be established in the NTP. The climate strategy set out in the baseline document for the NTP shows that, according to transport modes, it is possible to achieve the objective of reducing transport emissions by more than 50 pst. in 2030. In my climate policy statement to the Stortinget, I informed that the climate input of transport modes would be an important contribution to the NTP process. The majority, with their proposal for the treatment of the energy message on the measured figures for cars, show impatience and show the way here. Through the work on the NTP, the government will follow up this decision. It has been said that there should have been a greater work on instruments here. Well, we know a lot of the tools, and NTP will not least be important in pointing to the instruments. The climate strategy is also part of the government’s efforts to provide tools and a good understanding of what will be the right instruments in the future. The climate challenge is global, and the solutions must therefore also be international. The EU and Norway assume that the implementation of climate action is seen as part of a long-term transition to the low-carbon society. Together with the EU, we can provide the basis for green competitiveness, for the development of zero and low-carbon technologies, so that Norway and Europe can be won both as a low-carbon society and as a high-growth economy. The government is working on a number of processes to transform the Norwegian economy into a green direction. There is growing convergence between economic processes; there is growing convergence between sound economic processes and sound economic policies and green policies. Towards the end of 2016, a new agreement shall be concluded with Enova. It is an important instrument for the development of zero and low-carbon technologies. The energy notification and timing provide important guidance for the further device precisely from the green competitiveness perspective. As I said, we are going to present a new national transport plan, we are going to present an industrial communication in the first half of 2017, and we are also going back to Stortinget with a case after the deployment in the EU is clear, which describes how we are going to achieve our 2030 climate change target. It is also an important step towards building a low-carbon society that is not a low-income society, a low-carbon society that ensures green growth on the road. This is an important step towards the low-carbon society, and with the treatment of the energy message, Stortinget has increased both the level of ambition and the pace of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2509	The green imprint on the setting can well discuss the basis for. I'm not going to choose to do that, I'm going to ask the climate and environmental minister relatively specifically about some of what he was about. He said that a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions must come or be taken into account in the transport sector. And then he said, you already know a lot of the tools. On the basis of the transport budget recommendations, what are the instruments recommended by the Council of State for achieving the objectives of zero emissions by 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2517	Councillor of State Lien – Helgesen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2520	President, the Energy Minister and I have the same hairdresser, but besides, there is also a part that separates us. [[muttering in the hall]] We know about many of the tools because we know that some of the tools we have are already working. The electric car system is one of the examples. The 2020 targets for emissions requirements in the new fleet will probably reach next year. So we know that there's a lot of exciting happening in biofuels. The transport modes may be based on biofuels in their climate strategy. We think there are several technologies that will allow zero emissions and the vision for 2025. Then we have a strengthened Enova, as a result of the energy message processing, and we're dealing with a green tax shift. Pollution shall be more expensive, including for the fleet. These are all instruments that will help achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2529	The Minister for Climate and Environment actually said the keywords: pollution must be more expensive. Is the Council of State impressed by the way one, for example. have the fossil energy charges been addressed, compared with what one has done in relation to renewable energy? Under this government, renewable energy has become increasingly expensive on the charging side, while fossil energy has been kept at the same price level. Is there a proper path to 2025, as the Minister for Climate and Environment believes, on the basis of the zero-emission technology requirement in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2536	I guess it's not like there's some big, popular dissatisfaction over the current power price. We say – and we have clear wording on this together with our cooperation parties – that we are going through a green tax shift. It's a complicated process, because any tax process is. But the principle that the polluter pays and that more pollution is more expensive than less pollution should lie at the root, and that there will be a more important principle in the years that come – towards 2025, towards 2030 – I am not in doubt. At the same time, in the EU quota system over time, we will have increased prices, which will also contribute to the same dynamics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2545	The question of a Norwegian climate law has developed slowly and for a long time. The government has not been among the most glowing perpetrators to get to this law. There was a decision in Stortinget on a relatively round formulation. Since then, the understanding of the benefits of a climate law – I have the impression – has increased among many actors. So now we have a decision tonight to further clarify what requirements a climate law should contain and how it should work. Can the Council of State first confirm that he is taking over the new and clearer leadership on how to design a climate law? And can the Council of State give a time for a climate law to be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2552	To the last question, I can't now give a schedule. It is that we are working after the time limit set by Stortinget, that the law should be able to be dealt with in the current magnification period. It is also important to be clear that this is a complicated work. This is a legislative innovation in Norwegian law, in Norwegian legislative practices and administrative practices. We therefore need to go through many rounds to ensure that what we are developing harmonizes with both our parliamentary system, with Norwegian climate policy and with our national circumstances. I am definitely taking over the leaders who have come from Stortinget in the processing of the energy message, but will not go into detail on the proposal now. It's going to be sent at the usual hearing when it's ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2559	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, which is not so terrifyingly elucidating. I would like to clarify the question: can the Council confirm that the Stortinget will be presented with a proposal for a climate law so that we can deal with it during this majority period? Or are we at risk that the government, as a last act, will present a proposal that you have to wait for the next majority period to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2564	As I said, Storting's expectation is that the law will be able to be dealt with in the current magnification period, that's the timetable we're working on. But I again stress that this – legislative and regulatory – is a complicated piece of work. It is important that we do not go along with the basic principles of responsibilities between corruption and government — and practices between corruption and government. A law in this area – to regulate the relationship between corruption and government – is not something we are used to in other areas. Promises that set objectives for societal development with higher levels of precision and higher sectoral targets than are common in other areas are complicated. That's why this is a work that takes time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2569	A little bit in the extension of the issue of climate legislation: it is also about having a systematic approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, which has been a deficiency for many years. We now decide that the process of achieving the objectives of the EU must have emission targets and include action lists for achieving the targets. This is particularly true in the non-quota sector, where we expect a commitment to reduce to 40 pst. My question is really about the quota sector, because many of the measures in the energy communication and the decisions we are now taking are about measures in the quota sector, where we also need more knowledge to know the impact of the measures we are implementing – whether they are in the industry or in the petroleum industry. My question to the Council of State is: How does he imagine reporting on emission trajectories and action lists within the ETS sector in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2578	The representative of Elvesuen has a good point about what we actually know about the impact of different measures. There I have asked for more input from my system, because it is obvious that some measures are easier to measure the effect of than others. This applies both in the non-quota and in the quota sector, but much about quantification is a challenge. We've been part of the quota sector for many years. We are involved in the EU's process of tightening up the quota sector and will also look at how to quantify the impact of policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2585	One of the proposals, or one of the premises that are available from the trade unions' input into the National Transport Plan, I referred to earlier, and I refer it again: ‘Public departments shall use, as far as possible, biofuels, low- and zero-emission technologies in their own and leased-in vehicles and vessels.’ This is not a proposal for something to happen sometime in 2030, it is something that is going to happen now – which is recorded by the trade unions. Now, on a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has just passed a new law to impose environmental requirements on the public sector. Today, however, a majority in the UK and the Greens reject the Greens' proposal that public procurement in the transport sector should be based on zero emissions. This leads me to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State and the Government follow up on what is available from the trade unions? It is not about transport plan and development, it is about rules that can be implemented immediately under the new law. When will that happen, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2598	With regard to public procurement law, our approach is that individual public authorities should have a – in brief – green plan for their purchases. It is important not to over-manage the authorities, but to allow them to make their plans based on the overall requirements. There is a clear tightening in relation to today’s law – that there is to be a thoughtful procurement strategy. Of course, it will also be a question of when to buy cars and car fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2603	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2606	Access to hydropower has been the foundation for the construction of the Norwegian industrial community. From Peter Jebsen's cotton spinning plant in Outer Arna outside Bergen, based in 1846, to data storage centres that are now being built several places around the country, there is a red thread: stable access to affordable energy provides the basis for workplaces, business development and not least social development. Norwegian power generation is currently close to 100 pst. renewable. We can thank a wide range of forward-looking politicians and industrialists for that. It was not climate policy considerations that led to the role of hydropower in Norway, but at a time when global warming is defined as our main challenge, we can see that Norwegian society is in a special position, thanks to a sometimes separable power policy over time. Today we have a positive force balance in normal years. New development as a result of green certificates, together with extensive energy efficiency improvements, provides us with a surplus of renewable energy, which is an excellent starting point for doing as our ancestors: taking hold of boldly to create new, forward-looking jobs and value creation. While the rest of the world spends a lot of resources decarbonizing its power supply, we can take a leading position in what becomes chapter two of the report on the creation of a zero-emission society. We can convert energy use from fossil to renewable in transport, agriculture and industry. We can replace coal with hydrogen in the process industry. We can create jobs in new power-intensive industries. With this backstop we would think that an energy message would give clear guidance on how we, with our energy system and profits on renewable energy, can achieve these ambitions, but that hasn't happened. The Storting Message celebrates over these Harelab themes. A little positive mention and reference to existing research programmes is all the government has to offer. The notification focuses on profitability in power generation – profitability for producers. The resolution of green certificates and power exports shall contribute to increased profitability. The compensation provided by municipalities for abandoned areas and natural interference is produced as a problem for producers. The Norwegian power-processing industry accounts for one third of the power consumption in Norway and is extremely vulnerable to price increases. A power-cost increase of only one ear per kWh will provide the industry with 350 million. kr in increased costs. These enterprises employ 40 000 people throughout the country and are crucial for rural settlements and ring-fences. This industry is at the forefront of energy efficiency improvement and is developing new technologies that deliver significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions. A brilliant example of this is the company Tizir in Tyssedal, which will replace coal with hydrogen in the production process. This is a project that has to go in several steps and that will give 90 pst. CO2 savings and significant energy efficiency improvements. Enova has supported the first part of the project, and it is absolutely necessary that the next stage of the project also be supported. With this project, we do not just get low-emission operations. We also see what could be the beginning of a new industrial venture in Norway: hydrogen production. There are several examples of our power-processing industry developing new technologies and processes to increase its competitiveness. The working party will support this. We will use the surplus of power to create new jobs, new industries and new sustainable and sustainable value creation. Therefore, we will increase the Climate Change Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion to 100 billion. kr in 2017, and further increase this if Enova is assigned new tasks. Enova needs the muscles that this gives, in his work up against the industry. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for this today. Nor do we receive support at this stage for the proposal to have an equivalent tariff model for industry, regardless of whether it is in the central or regional network. Our proposal for a complementary strategy to increase the use of hydrogen in transport and industry is also not supported by the government and supporting parties. Norwegian industry deserves a stronger role in our energy policy than the government does in this communication. It must be a political objective to maintain power prices at a level that maintains the competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry. The energy message we are handling today does not give any leads in this way, nor at this point. Let me also say a few words about the foreign connections, which was the theme of the exchange of lines between the Council of State, Lien, and the representative, Arnstad. I think it is important to clarify that the changes proposed by the government with regard to international connections are not about the success or necessity of power exchanges between Norway and our neighbouring countries. It is not about whether anyone should be allowed to project and bring in new ideas and innovation in the development of these types of projects. What it's all about is operation and ownership. Who's to own? Who is going to harvest the bottleneck income? And how are these to be distributed? I was worried when the Council of State was so unwilling to give the representative Arnstad an answer to the question she asked about construction contributions on the foreign tables. It gives us a clue as to what theme will be discussed and where the battle will stand for the autumn, when we deal with Prop. 98 L. I can at least say clearly from the Labour Party that we do not support the government's proposal on this point, nor do we hear any reassuring words from the Council of State when this comes to the stage today. It merges into a series of measures that, in my view, are jeopardising industry's low power prices, and thus also challenges what opportunities we have to really take the lead in the transition to a zero-emission society. Generally speaking, I hear from the citizens here that a broad consensus has been reached. There is, to a large extent, a majority position here. The Right Party and the Advance Party chose to negotiate with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in order to reach an agreement on something, and after that the matter was really locked. There was no sign of a desire for a broad political majority for such an important industry as energy industry and energy supply in Norway, and not least its climate policy aspects. But what does this consensus consist of? If we read the decisions that are being made now, it's about the government assessing, facilitating, explaining, investigating and mapping. It's not much of a potent consensus. The Christian People's Party was able to shoot down the government's plan to set down a sample to look at the concession power system, we heard. I think it was good. It was a very important matter, but when the consensus or the trick is to stop an initiative by the government that you are a birth helper and supporter, you can question the potential of this unity. To what extent does this consensus lead us in the future in energy policy? Consider another example: Energy efficiency improvement has agreed on a target of 10 TWh. I'm fine, but it's a completely meaningless consensus when you don't say anything about how you're going to get to that goal. Because it is clear that in terms of energy efficiency improvement in existing buildings, it is a costly affair measured at cost per kWh saved. That's why it's important to clarify what you're agreeing about; when comes the plan, what thoughts you've done about it. But there are the government's supporting parties here at Stortinget nothing to contribute to the vote, and that's no wonder, because then the disagreement that actually exists in this 'broad bourgeois consensus' would appear. Because I don't think the consensus between the Left and the Advance Party is so strong when it comes down to business and how we're going to do this, what the tools we have. Then the representative of Korsberg would like to complain that there was no energy message coming from the previous government and wondering that it was due to disagreement. But what we can say is that the results of the previous government showed that something happened, it brought the country forward: the consensus achieved here in the Storting, and as we see in this message, brings us nowhere. It's just giving a lot of investigative work to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2639	The future is renewable and electric. In order for us to do so, it must be built on a sound foundation, and I believe that the government has provided that foundation. But before I go through the foundation, I allow myself to come up with a little reflection. Sitting in position is interesting, because then you get to make decisions. The disadvantage is that when the government takes decisions to deal with here in Stortingen, it takes time – matters need to be investigated and handled in a good and sound manner. Sitting in the opposition has its advantages, because you have time to be impatient. Here with us this is often reflected by the opposition finding out what the government intends to promote matters, so to promote them and then tell them that the government does nothing, but is instructed by the Storting. All right, all right. But enough reflections, then to the foundation. The first thing we had to deal with was the legacy of the previous government, the green certificates. It was introduced in 2011 and a number of builders had been given political leadership before 2011 that if they started building up, they would be in the scheme when it was introduced. It didn't get that simple. Many landowners put the farm and reason in the belief that they would get certificates, but the certificates were missing. After we took over, we speeded up the work, and at the first control station of the Swedish system, most of them got their demands met, and we got our commitments settled. The next thing was that we saw that the certification system did not work out correctly as we thought. Most of the new power came in Sweden and not in us. There was a need for a new review of conditions, and we saw that wind power came out particularly badly. That is why we have been working to get depreciation rules for wind power that are adapted to the market. The case is for ratification, and we're assuming it's going to work. The next thing we had to deal with was a report that was ordered by the previous government. The Reiten Committee presented its report ‘A better organised electricity network’ in spring 2014. The report gave us advice on organizing the web for a better future. There was a need for changes to enable us to build the renewable society. Today's organization needed to be tightened up. And there was a need for changes in the Energy Act, actually to finalise the changes that were already begun in 1991. This work started immediately and ended with the matter we had to deal with in Stortinget just before Easter, about changes in the Energy Act. We have put in place the changes that are necessary for us to have a network that is organised in the best possible way and is able to meet customers and consumers who are not only to receive electricity, but could also be net suppliers in the network. In addition, we are revoking the Energy Act so that other people than Statnet can expand cables abroad. I am not going to forge a legislative change, but it is a wish that private people can get on the road with Statnet, so that more creative players can create more green jobs in Norway. The next thing that lies in the foundation of a renewable future is that we need to get applications for enlargement through the bureaucracy and simplify the procedure. We've given a lot of concessions, simplified the procedure, and started to develop, so that those who want to expand will reach the 2021 deadline for obtaining certificates. Renewal needs to be facilitated at the same time as we build up the grid, i.e. transmission capacity. It's not useful to be allowed to build up new power if you don't reach the market with the power. That is why we have focused heavily on expanding and strengthening the network in Norway. Many concessions have been granted, and many major projects are under construction. New transmission network in Lofoten is in place, and a concession has also been granted for the construction of Bjerkvik-Skaidi. I mention these for the simple reason that there are two major projects that are important to my part of the country. But there are many other major expansions going on, and it's added to an investment only in the 50 billion transmission network. kr for the next 10 years. Ditto is to be invested in distribution networks and we need to be able to deploy charging capacity for electric cars or facilitate shore-side electricity in our ports. In addition, we need to provide green jobs. Work is ongoing and, until the autumn, the government is presenting its work on green competitiveness and new industrial notification. But we don't sit and wait, and the energy message is the last hand at the work, along with amendments to the concession law, where we introduce an ANS and a DA model to ensure predictable power for the industry. We provide for the development of power in sheltered watercourses to prevent floods and escapes. We continue to simplify by removing the total plan for hydropower expansion, and we're making a plan for wind power construction. There are raised doubts about the guarantees of origin, which we have parked, in the same way that we maintain the municipality's right to retain the concession power and the concession fee. We establish that the backbone of our renewable society is hydropower. We are opening up renewable projects related to sea wind by proposing the realisation of a demonstration project. We liquidate the green certificates and signal that we do not want to subsidize known technology for the future, but will also use subsidies for new technologies and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2669	Norway has a proud tradition of looking back on in renewable energy production. Since the entry into service of the first hydroelectric power plant in Norway and the world in 1882 at Senjens Nickelwerk in Port of Senja, hydropower has laid the foundations for local communities, industry and value creation throughout Norway. Some have criticised Norway for having low ambitions in the field of renewables. But I don't support that view. Norway was at an early stage taking advantage of the natural advantages we have here in our country, namely footfalls, rivers and watercourses. 99 pst. of all power generation in Norway comes from hydropower. In the world in 2015, hydropower amounted to 16.6 pst. of the total electrical energy production. For comparison, electricity production from nuclear power was 12,8 p.p., while production from other renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and geothermal energy was 3,6 p.p. I find it strange that the same batches that cry out loudest that Norway has to invest more in renewable energy production are also the parties that are most opposed to the development of watercourses and would almost have seen that most watercourses in Norway had been protected. I represent Finnmark. For North Norway, good security of supply is important in order to ensure the framework conditions and establishment and development of industry. The discussion on the electrification of Norwegian pedestal will mean electrification of the Johan Castberg field for North Norway. Long-term and predictable energy supply to this part of the country is important. It is therefore important that the Progress Party, together with the government, bets on the construction of the power grid from Balsfjord in Nordland to Skaidi in Finnmark. The next step will be to extend this network to Varangerbotn. In January this year we received a press release saying that Finnmark Kraft AS will expand the Hamneberget wind power plant in Båtsfjord in Finnmark. There is a wind farm with 15 turbines with a total installed power of approx. 50 MW. The application for a concession was first sent in 2006. The concession was granted in the autumn of 2013. A key prerequisite for investment and investment in wind power is good framework conditions through, for example: good depreciation options. Therefore, in May this year, the Progress Party and the Government sent a formal notification to ESA on more favourable depreciation rules for just wind power. The opposition with the Workers' Party in the head has been to the tedious since the Right-Fremskritspart-government took over the autumn of 2013, stated that the government delivers too little too late, and that the government does not bet in the north. Well, for my part, I prefer it to be delivered on energy policy rather than at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2688	The climate challenge is our greatest threat – we all say it, we say it so often that it almost sounds like a cliché, but there is no cliché, it is very serious – and therefore it has to meet with action in all areas. Today's government has been disappointingly paralysed by what they themselves refer to as the main challenge, the climate issue. Emissions are increasing with this government. No new initiatives are being taken, and it must be halved and dragged to do what the Storting has asked it to do. For almost three years, any reference to climate and energy issues has been referred to the Energy Communication, proposals have been rejected, and actions have been postponed because they have said: Just wait until the Energy Communication comes, then the answers come. The shock was therefore great when there came a message that, as has been said by many, had good descriptions of how reality is, but is very weak in the policy of the future. This is not a message that leads to, but it is a message that describes. We don't need any more descriptions, we need action. Where has climate minister Vidar Helgesen actually been while this message was being prepared? We understand that this government did not intend to present its own climate communication, contrary to what was done in the previous two periods, so this could be the climate minister's approach to describing the zero-emission society. That possibility has not been used by the Minister. When the message was weak, we looked forward to the treatment here in Stortinget and that we could have an opportunity where the Stortinget could gather on proposals to override the government – just as the Stortinget did in connection with the nature diversity message that was presented earlier in ours, where the Stortinget in a number of areas was able to gather. But in this case it was not possible. The Left and Christian People's Party did not use the space of action they have when they stand outside the government, but instead they agreed on what is the extreme point of climate policy. Of course, it has improved policy, but in no way has it become as much better as it could have been. This message will probably be a lost opportunity for the climate. Today there will be a number of proposals that really have a majority behind them in the Storting, but which unfortunately will be voted down, and instead we have some proposals that give vague compromises. The Workers' Party proposed that we have a policy that allowed us to phase out the new sales of diesel and petrol cars. Today’s Business Life wrote a week ago that the citizens now agreed on the policy in the Energy Communication, among others. to stop the sale of new fossil cars from 2025. Enthusiastically, the Minister for Climate Change posted a picture of the front page on Twitter and wrote: «wide climate and energy policy offensive from the cooperation parties». The front page he leaned off was the same front page as the Right immediately sent out a press release saying that it was ‘misleading’. The Vice President of the Advance Party and the colleague of Helgesen, Per Sandberg, wrote in a text message to Today's Business that it is beyond what the newspaper says, and that there is certainly room for different interpretation. Ola Elvestuen, on the other hand, says that he stands firm that there will only be sales of zero-emission cars in 2025. But Elvestuen's problem is that it is Sandberg and the Progress Party who are in government and are going to implement the policy. Then we should learn that fuzzy messages are not the way to go. No, we need clear decisions that do not allow for different interpretations or that push decisions forward in time. We need goals, but we also need policies to achieve them. Today, we are promoting a number of proposals on the infrastructure of the electric car policy, which will be downgraded. We also promote a proposal that fossil fuel charges should be gradually increased, while zero and low-emission solutions should be rewarded. It's doing as the climate minister says, but as he doesn't, we're going to do what we know works. This is a proposal that the Left should be familiar with, because it is a proposal that is directly drawn from the National Assembly of the Left, but unfortunately it is not adopted today because the Left is voting against it. The Labour Party is promoting a number of proposals today. We want to build new renewable energy, we want to use the power to replace fossil energy and to build new clean industry. Norway has great opportunities, and we must exploit them. We will look at the possibilities for a solar support scheme. We want a demonstration plant for sea wind, and we want a strategy for the use of liquid sea wind in Norway. This is not a new policy, it is an initiative that has previously come here from the Storing and that has even been adopted here in the Storing, but we cannot see that the government has followed up. That's why we're promoting it again now, more concretely, but now it's going down because the Left and Christian People's Party seems to be satisfied with what they think can be a sea wind strategy – we think it's disappointing. Today, the Labour Party has over 40 proposals that will strengthen climate policy in Norway. Most of them are very close to having a majority, but unfortunately it won't. This is probably a lost opportunity for the Storting to make a good decision. The government has abdicated in many ways in climate policy – that’s a shame – but even more disappointing is the fact that they have now also received the blessing of the Left and Christian People’s Party. In the matter we are discussing today, the civil cooperation climate has been more important than the planet's climate. We have a government that has said for three years that we should wait and look at the energy message. Now it is new that they say that we should wait and look at an agreement with the EU. This is a government that believes that action will only take place once they have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2714	This energy message most lives up to its heading: Force for change. Security of supply for energy, climate challenges and industrial development needs to be seen in a context. We often talk about the green shift. The transition to a more sustainable society is not only about reducing emissions, but also about creating more jobs that pay taxes for the welfare of the future. New technologies are essential for a society with lower emissions and more sustainable solutions. In particular, research and development in climate technologies have been heavily focused in recent years. A short month ago, I was so lucky to be able to participate in allocating a total of five out of eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy to SINTEF and NTNU in Trondheim. The centres focus on research in renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement, CO2 management and social sciences. Close and long-term cooperation between the best research environments, enterprises and authorities has produced very good results that are now continuing. In addition, an abundance of good ideas and solutions emerge both in higher education and research environments and not least in enterprises. In order to make use of new technologies, we need an instrument that can go in and take risks and contribute to the deployment of technology projects. Enova is our key instrument for achieving our overall objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, enhancing security of energy supply and developing climate and environmental technologies. Enova has great professional freedom to develop tools and individual projects and will contribute to lasting market changes – a viable change. Enova shall be returned as much as possible in terms of kilowatt-hours and greenhouse gas emissions for the aid granted. Energy and power efficiency improvement, contribution to low and zero emission solutions, and in particular transport, are important policy developments. After Enova was transferred to Transnova’s tasks in 2015, Enova operates in markets that account for a total of 90 pst. of the Norwegian climate emissions. We are also very clear that further investment in technology development should be directed towards areas where we already have special competence, such as the process industry and the maritime sector. In recent years, the Enova industry has reaped the most energy results per capita. The major ferry project in Hordaland, support for charging infrastructure for electric cars and greater efforts in several major industrial projects, such as in Carmøy and Her Island, are examples of Enova’s contribution to reducing emissions in the transport sector, environmentally friendly shipping, the development of low-carbon technologies in industry and a cleaner process industry – important Norwegian contribution to greenhouse gas reductions in the non-quota sector, which is part of the common solution with the EU, as well as the organisation of more new and secure jobs. We also believe that the contribution of consumers to a greener society through the network tariff will provide a predictable and long-term strengthening of Enova. The extended mandate focusing in particular on reduced emissions will contribute to a broader portfolio and greater opportunities to contribute to projects also at a lower stage of development. For example, here we can. refer to the good results of the Research Council/CLIMIT with Gassnova. Research and development is Norway’s major priority, including in an international perspective. The Paris Agreement suggests that countries can contribute technology to reducing emissions in other countries. As an example, Norwegian sea wind investment will be more important for technological development than energy production in this country. With this message, we premise that Norway will continue to be an energy nation. We are the largest hydropower producer in Europe, and Europe's largest wind farm is now being built on Fosen. In addition, we are world leaders in climate technologies, and there is now a framework for the use of technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy use to an even greater extent. Good ecologically sustainable solutions become economically viable. It means a greener society and more jobs. That's what gives us a vital change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2739	The Workers' Party's view of the Government's energy message is that it contains a good analysis of how the energy sector is structured. I guess that's good. The challenge, however, is that the communication takes too little account of what the government believes the energy policy of the future will look like. I believe that there is a significant weakness in the message, as it is a symptom that the government cannot point to the good solutions for the nation. It's not just the Norwegian, the national context it's about. The international curtain is too poorly guarded. I am thinking in particular of processes in the EU, which are obviously important to Norway in the coming years. This is particularly true given that Norway has such a dominant share of renewable power generation, and that we need to focus on how we can build up this comparative advantage – because that is what it is right now, a not fully exploited advantage. We need to look at this renewable power generation as both valuable and possible further development. Then I have to ask what is the government's policy regarding other renewable energy sources. What comes from the fact that the energy message so light ups wind power, solar power and hydrogen as future energy sources and energy carriers? What is the result of the failure of the Energy Communication to give priority to how a surplus of power can be used to create opportunities for value creation and jobs in the future? Can the energy nation Norway be satisfied that these areas are too lowlyly covered in the energy notification? I don't think so. When it comes to calling for policies in this area, what kind of impressions are left? Well, the impression is that the government would rather regulate the market. It's not good enough in our view, given that it's our commonwe're talking about. As an ideology, it might work, but as a policy, it's not sustainable. On the contrary, it is our job as politicians to manage this genetic gold with clear policy framework conditions, so that our energy resources are used in the best possible way in the future. What will the Workers' Party do, is the question of the position. The answer is that we will clarify good, long-term and predictable framework conditions that can contribute to future-oriented industrial investment. Among other things, we stress that the framework conditions must at least match the corresponding industry in the EU. One of the measures is that we need to focus more on industrial development based on renewable energy. I don't think the industry is going to be a brake in this area. What is missing are concrete policy initiatives and framework conditions. Investment-oriented and innovative processes are improving when industry knows what to do with them, and government must also accept them. Another main measure, which we believe the government is not fulfilling, is the switch from fossil energy use to renewable energy. Without a clear policy in this area, we can lose valuable time. This is also the responsibility of the government. On our part, there is no lack of cooperation, and the possibility of a broadly anchored national policy is definitely present, as has been said here before today. However, it requires a more active approach to operational measures and framework conditions. The Working Party and others have also promoted a concrete proposal – another one among the tens of proposals – for more concrete policies in the energy and environment sectors, where we ask the government to present a case for a uniform tariff model. We want to achieve an equivalent tariff in the regional network and the central network for large consumers with a high service life. It will contribute to greater predictability for all enterprises with a high use time associated with the regional network. When we're out talking to business managers in the industry, there's one word that's continuous, and that's the word 'predictability'. This is a call for us as politicians to ensure that there are no coincidences about making investment decisions. I reiterate the need for us, as politicians, to ensure that we remove unnecessary uncertainty about the conditions in order to make investments that contribute to the better exploitation of our renewable energy production and to shift from fossil energy production to renewable energy production. It requires political will, and of course we hope that the government will gradually show itself to the renewable sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2767	After hearing Mr. Terje Aasland's posts here today, I can only assume that the Workers' Party is very satisfied with the government's energy policy set out in this communication. The representative spent almost all his time criticising the policies of the majority parties as a result of negotiations in the United Kingdom, and on a sort of analysis of today's economic outlook on 3 June. We heard a little about the Workers' Party's options or considerations about the issues discussed in the Energy Communication. First, the government got criticism that there was too little climate in the message, and too much energy. Then, after the committee reading, the majority gets critical that there is too much climate and transport, and too little energy. Then there is a very big point because the majority parties do not have any more proposals in terms of low-emission car targets – that it is completely unclear how this goal is to be achieved. The working party, on the other hand, is involved in an additional proposal that deals with this and departs from ours, namely to increase the taxes on petrol and diesel. Let me remind the Working Party that we don't always go to the whip first. That is why, in this communication, we have agreed on a reinforced commitment to the positive instruments, such as hydrogenation and a principle to strengthen Enova’s ability to bet, among others. in the transport sector in the future. There are also other processes that are important, including: Green Tax Commission. Perhaps the Labour Party is disappointed that the majority parties have managed to agree on this. But it is therefore possible to agree on climate policy without having to prohibit anything or increase taxes and taxes in the first turn. That being said, the majority of parties already agree that choosing the environmentally friendly options should always pay off. This also applies to a car. So it shouldn't be very surprising that we don't address budgetary issues in the energy message. In particular, the Workers' Party joins as many of our proposals when they are obviously as unclear and as poor as the Aasland representative gives the impression. On the Workers' Party's websites you can read the following from their press release in connection with the energy message: ‘It is a pity for the climate that Left and KRF choose to support the government rather than follow their own policies. They would have much more in collaboration with the Workers' Party, the S, SV and the MDG.’ I do not live in the error that the Left and Christian People's Party supports this government at all costs, especially in climate policy. I therefore believe that the best example of the fact that the majority proposals in this case are, in fact, far more offensive than the Labour Party, is that the Left and Christian People's Party chooses to support them. And although it doesn't sound like that, I think on the contrary that the Workers' Party also sees that more of our proposals are more concrete and ambitious than many of their own. But I'm getting used to that for the Workers' Party, everything is black and dark with this government's policy, so I'm not surprised that it's the same today. What I find strange, though, is that the Workers' Party chooses to spend so little time raising its own policy and attacking the Christian People's Party and the Left because they actually believe that others have better policies than the Workers' Party. But believe it or not, it's actually possible. The government has had very good conversations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I'm not going to pretend that the Left and Christian People's Party doesn't draw us in a greener direction than what the starting point was. I think that's fine. It is precisely this dynamic that makes it civilly the best and most offensive climate policy being created. In the end, I am pleased with the contribution of the representative Per Rune Henriksen, because without it it would have been very difficult to know what the Workers' Party actually thinks about energy policy in the future – when, according to Terje Aasland, it appears that they agree with the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2791	Transport shall become cleaner and more efficient in the future. Prior to the presentation of the basic document from the trade unions, the Labour Party called for the new transport plan to respond to the climate challenges. I think today we see the will of several parties to make a change in pace and pace to follow up the goal of the outcome of the UN climate summit in Paris in December 2015. In the transport sector as a whole, there are challenges to changing patterns of use and behaviour in order to achieve change. I am therefore pleased that in its climate change proposal, the Labour Party will aim to strengthen the conversion of the charging system in favour of zero and low-emission cars, so that cars with greenhouse gas emissions are phased out over time. There's reason to believe that it's through carrots that we can achieve the big changes. Whatever measure we adopt here today, success will depend to a large extent on how good the work is. The use of charging systems would therefore be appropriate. I hope that today we make decisions that do not indicate that the market alone will solve the problems. As an example, we can show that today there are many hybrid cars, but get clean zero-emission cars that only run on hydrogen. Here you can go both to increase the distribution of environmental fuels, but also to get a lot more brands that can be sold to those who choose zero-eject cars. There are many reasons why the energy nation of Norway has a great advantage with our total amount of green energy, and I think we can be optimistic. But I think it's a pity that the government and the support parties don't agree to give multiple numbers to provide a zero-emission truck support system and zero-emission buses, so that carriers can cover all or part of the extra costs by choosing zero-emission technology. Similarly, it would be natural to follow up the work of the Green Tax Commission to address the use of flexible user charges that vary with geographical location and emission intensity in the fuel. I'm recording that the working party here is much more offensive than the plural. We need to provide for more renewable fuel use, such as biofuels, by increasing the blending up to 40 pst. in the transport sector. This must also be assessed for mobile sources such as tractors and plant machinery. The slow start of aviation biofuels has resulted in Gardermoen, and now other airports come after. A large airport like Los Angeles also has biofuels in use. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party's proposal to facilitate the development and deployment of renewable fuels before internal aviation is receiving a number here today. Norway has an ambitious plan to build up and modernise the railway. The previous government started a series of fixes. Now this is followed up, and several passengers travel and are satisfied with the railway. Many have come in place, but we may have to recognize that Norway has some older infrastructure that needs to be replaced in order to reduce travel time, but also to ensure the pathways against race and slippage at high rainfall. The railway can also make use of hydrogen, as it is done, including: in Germany. I think we need to facilitate the development and deployment of low and zero emission technologies for remaining diesel sections on our railways. There is also reason to point out the possibilities of looking at hydrogen locomotives in line with the plans for the IC deployment and the increase in train provision in the coming years. Amperes is a zero-emission ferry that has received a lot of attention. Here, the Norwegian maritime environment has gone ahead and created innovation. It should be possible to get more such ferries out on our fjord crossings. Our country has a lot of green power, and we can use resources to create a shift to more low and zero emissions. Our ports are today an important hub for passenger traffic and freight handling. The large ports with many calls have large emissions of CO2 and NOx. I believe that the Workers' Party's proposal to establish a cooperation between the State and the Municipality on the development of shore-side electricity infrastructure at all relevant ports would have been a major step forward to reduce emissions in ports. There is a hope that the other party will be able to come in and give the Workers Party multiples for one of many good suggestions in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2821	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2824	A week ago, I was in Egersund, Rogaland, at a major renewable conference. Egersund is in a way an image of renewable optimism – especially within the wind. New wind farms must be built in the area. One is in the process of providing training in wind energy. Even the creation of a factory for the production of components for windmills is under discussion. The feedback on the energy message from the industry in Egersund was unison: One was disappointed. The answers promised did not come — the measures were missing. The energy report exposed the government. The energy policy of the Right and the Advance Party is to wait and see. One waits for the EU and refuses to go ahead. From the industry in Egersund the call was for us in the Workers' Party: give us something to vote for! The working party has blackened. Our climate package with 45 concrete proposals has set the agenda. And it's very clear that it was our proposals, and not the government's energy message, that were the starting point for the civil negotiations – no doubt a defeat for the state councils here today. The shock in Egersund is most of all an expression of the disappointment I hear from many parts of the industry. There is talk in large words, in both the Right and the Advance Party, of the need for change, but the concrete measures are lacking. But I'm not surprised. The lack of concrete measures is indicative of the industrial policy of this government. Economic neutrality prevails, and the market, like it, has to rule alone. It testifies to a naive belief that new industries and new industries are only growing from scratch. If you're told up on Aker – the yard in Egersund – the government seems to think people should go home and build windmills on their own initiative in the garden. The development of new industries — new jobs — does not happen by itself. We must be able to repeat the success recipe from the hydropower and from when we found the oil, when national ownership, clear strategies and concrete measures helped to build new industries and create new jobs. The same is true of the development of new technology — it does not happen by itself. It is not by chance that the world's first elves go to Norway. It is not the market that has made Norway an electric car Mecca. It is the results of ambitious policies that have worked. That is why I am very pleased that the Workers' Party today is taking the next steps. We will establish land flow in all major ports – the Right and the Advance Party with friends will only identify the need. We want a concrete plan to reduce energy use in existing buildings – the Right Party and the Advance Party with friends are moving towards a plan and have targets, but no funds. We have a much more offensive policy for electric cars, for infrastructure, for offshore wind and for solar energy, which I know they will be pleased with in Egersund. These are proposals that create new technologies and create new jobs. The task ahead of us is enormous. Then the policy and the measures must be the same. This could have been a historic day, it's been a lost opportunity. Unfortunately, we have to wait until 2017 for the measures and for real will to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2858	For the first time in 17 years, a comprehensive energy report has been submitted. It could be a safe word, and so it took a blue-blue government to do it. The message is about many important themes. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, power generation and power generation are very important. It generates large incomes, and it creates important employment. I am very pleased that the government party and the collaboration party early in the work on the message announced that one would go away from setting up an expert group to look at the concession power and the concession fee. The concession scheme has great economic significance for many municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane, and if you want to build up power and produce more power, the host municipalities must have a part of the value creation that water power builds up. It was also good that the bourgeois parties decided that today's concession arrangement works according to their intention. It creates peace and stability, and it's good. Another thing that is also important in my home country is that there should be the possibility of concessional power building in protected watercourses to be flood-absorbing, in order to prevent great damage and loss of value and human life. In October 2014, there was a large amount of damage both in Odda, Voss and not least in Flåm in Aurland. In the village of Flåm 13 residential buildings were totally damaged. The damage is close to 250 million. kr. It was also very close to the fact that the flamingo took human life. The municipality of Aurland has wanted to secure the river by transferring water from the river Fåmsvastret to the Aurland plant. They have not been able to do so far, with a special indication that it is a protected watercourse. It is therefore very gratifying that it is now being opened for flood-proofing measures also in sheltered watercourses. The municipality of Aurland has demonstrated that there is a high risk of new fleas threatening life and health. The risk is also increasing with climate change backgrounds and increasing extremes. It is fully possible to take measures to ensure that areas are rescheduled. There are smaller regulations, which have a very small impact on protection values, but which have a large impact on flood suppression. The insurance work carried out after the flood in 2014 has cost more than 100 million. kr, and it will not prevent a new large damage flood. It shows analyses from Multiconsult and Norconsult. Only flood damping provides effective measures up to 40 pst. reduction of the flood size. If a can't dampen the flame in the watercourse, it will require dramatic measures, if possible, to ensure high values for business, railway and bus services in Flame. With the opening that is currently being negotiated, the flood suppression measures in the Flanders and other suspended watercourses can be realised. This means that a secure future for those who live in remote areas and who have recently experienced very dramatic events.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2881	It has been almost 17 years since the last Stortinget received a holistic energy message for treatment. The opposition with the Workers' Party in the head is pleased to comment that this government is too small, too late. Unlike the previous government, which set eight consecutive years of plurality, the Progress Party and this government have at least been able to deliver a message that is transparent and very good. There is every reason to congratulate State Councillor Lien on the work represented by the Energy Communication. The message has been requested for a long time. Norway has a proud tradition of looking back on renewable energy production. The hydropower has helped lay the foundation for community, industry and value creation throughout Norway. Norway was early out taking advantage of the natural advantages we have in our country, simply footfalls, rivers and watercourses. 99 pst. of all power generation in Norway comes from the hydropower. In the world in 2015, the water force was well 16.6 pst. of the total electrical energy production. This fully indicates that Norway was early in having great ambitions before the exploitation of our water resources for energy production. A careful and long-term policy in the field of energy is important, not only for energy producers, but also for business and for you and me. For More and Romesdal, it is important to put in place a high level of security of supply. Here the Ørskog-Fardal powerline plays an important role. One doesn't have to go more than six or seven years back until one had challenges with the power situation in central Norway compared to the rest of the country. Several pre-power-requiring industries are located just in Middle Norway. It seems strange to me that the same parties that cry out the loudest that Norway has to invest more in renewable energy production are also the parties that are most opposed to the expansion of watercourses, and almost should have seen that most of the watercourses in Norway had been protected. The point of progress should be that one could open up for more expansion of small-scale power generation, not less. With increased hydropower generation, with the addition of wind power and good external connections, Norway can take on a role as the green battery for Europe and export renewable energy to the continent as a viable alternative to coal and nuclear power plants. The Energy Communication covers many more themes that I do not have the opportunity to fully address now, but I fully support the Government and the Cooperation Party's good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2898	The development of Norway to an energy nation started over a hundred years ago. As early as the late 1800s, this force provided the basis for the power-intensive industry built up over the years, which has been an important contribution to the development of modern Norway. There's no doubt that it's still there. The general principles adopted by the Castberg concession laws as early as 1909 are principles that largely apply to energy management as of today. But I believe that the concession scheme is now in play by today's government to satisfy the power companies. The Government announces in the Storing Communication that it wants to set up an expert group to look at the concession power and the concession fee. It is not dangerous in itself, but the government does not, of course, write directly in the notice that they will terminate the concession power system. It would create ramaskrik. However, if an expert group is appointed with that mandate, there is no doubt that it may be the first step towards achieving something that was unpopular at the starting point. It would have a major negative impact on the municipalities and county councils that currently have power revenues. I'm glad that there's a concern that the whole committee is behind. The Committee points out that the purpose of the concession arrangements is to ensure the host municipalities a share of the value creation that the hydroelectric development gives rise to. The host municipalities contribute to this value creation through the disposal of natural resources. It is good that the parties at Stortinget are not in line with the government and government council, Lien, by stating that today's concession arrangements work according to the intention, as the committee says. It is important that the Norwegian hydropower tradition continues, so that communities that make their natural resources available for hydropower generation receive part of these revenues. However, the matter has not been resolved. I refer to the response letter of 2 June 2016 from State Council Lien to the Energy and Environment Committee. Here's what it says: ‘If the mandate of a group of experts, if any, is snuffed in the direction that the Committee’s questions suggest, I do not believe it has any intention of involving a wide-ranging group of experts now. I will then consider how the Department can look into any improvements and simplifications.’ This means that the government intends to attack the concession power system through so-called improvements and simplifications, rather than going the way of an expert committee. This may mean that the government will in any case risk the concession power and concession fees system, which I would strongly warn against, and I also think the committee is well on the way. I think the concern is heightened when you do not support proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, etc., which says: ‘The Government requests the extension of the concession power regime as it stands today’.» But it's not too late, the voting is not until tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2923	The transport sector is one of the areas in which we need to put in place strong measures to achieve ambitious climate and environmental objectives. This means that we need to develop and deploy new environmental technologies, we need to get more people to choose collective solutions or to go and ride, and we need to get more of the freight across the sea and the track. We're basic technology optimists. We don't solve the environmental challenges by getting people to stop driving, but by stimulating people to choose environmentally friendly cars or choose collectives, walks and bikes where it's an alternative. Similarly, it is not possible to solve the environmental challenges of freight transport by moving goods only from road to rail and sea. It will also not be feasible. The challenge is to develop and implement new technologies that make all modes of transport environmentally friendly, regardless of whether it is a car, train or boat. I note that several opposition representatives believe that no action has been taken during this period. The same representatives could not have followed very well. In all the budgets, the government and the parties have already taken action to make the transport sector more environmentally friendly. We have provided a historic investment on the railways, collectives, corridors and bicycles. Strict requirements for low and zero emissions are imposed in the ferry sector. It will mean a gradual replacement of an ageing ferry fleet to more environmentally friendly and modern vessels, thus increasing activity and new jobs in our country. We have increased the budgets for research and innovation, strengthened Enova and merged into Transnova. It has provided a significantly greater muscle for environmental technology and low- and zero-emission solutions in the transport sector. Examples include charging infrastructure, car filling stations, shore-side electricity subsidies – last allocation of 82 million. SEK in grants to 13 ports – and aid for the development of charging infrastructure for ferries, such as: at the base of 300 million. kr now to Hordaland County. The Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway has doubled in this period. In the revised state budget for 2016, it was set at 65 million. a new scheme to stimulate the development and use of environmental technologies in both public and private activities. In maritime transport, we have reduced the fees by approx. One hundred million. kr, we have improved the facilitator system, established a port cooperation grant scheme and set up a wrecking mechanism to stimulate the replacement of older ships and strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. This is just some of what has already been done in the transport sector in two to three years, and we will do more. The energy message, the port strategy, the maritime strategy and the forthcoming short sea shipping strategy are important. However, the most important governance document in the transport sector is the National Transport Plan, which will be adopted in spring 2017. That is where we lay the basis for action in the transport sector until 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2940	Norway has a proud tradition of looking back on in renewable energy production. Hydropower has helped to lay the foundations for local communities, industry, value creation and well-being throughout Norway. A predictable and long-term policy in the field of energy is important, not only to energy producers, but also to business and each of us. One does not have to go back many years to find major challenges with the power situation in central Norway compared to the rest of the country. Several companies in the power-intensive industry are located there, and it is therefore gratifying that Statekraft, TrønderEnergi and Nordic Wind Power have reported that they are joining forces to build Europe's largest land-based wind power plants on Fosenhalvøya, Hitra and Snillfjord in Middle Norway. About 11 billion. SEK shall be invested in six wind farms of a total of 1000 MW and all parks are planned to be completed in 2020. A key prerequisite for investment and investment in wind power is good framework conditions, including: good depreciation options, and that was the background for the government in May to send a formal notification to ESA on more favourable depreciation rules for wind power. The Energy Communication now states that Trondheim’s localised Enova will have a central position in support schemes for electricity, hydrogen and hybrid infrastructure in the transport sector and private cars. Since the transport sector is expected to account for a large part of climate cuts in the future, it is important to have good incentives to change from today’s petrol and diesel fleet to a renewable energy-based car park. With increased water and wind power generation and good cooperation with the United Kingdom and Germany, Norway can take on a role as the green battery for Europe and export renewable energy to the continent. Although Norway does not use oil and gas to a significant extent for its own energy consumption, the world will still demand oil and gas for the foreseeable future, and it will still be a better alternative than nuclear and coal power stations. To put energy production and consumption first in a climate context, the Progress Party believes that a focus should be placed on what actually gives the most effect globally and globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2951	Norway is a maritime nation with world-leading maritime clusters, and more than one third of Norway’s exports come from maritime industry. The industry consists of several specialised regional clusters, not least the region that I represent – More and Romesdal, where the whole value chain is present. This allows ideas to be taken from innovation to production in Norway, and the Christian People's Party believes that established industry has good opportunities to develop, commercialise and lay the basis for export, which forms the basis for lasting jobs and value creation. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway is in an important window of time, where, in partnership with the industry, the authorities can develop environmental and climate technologies to maintain a leading position in the international market. The size has asked the government to ensure zero and low emissions for new ferry offers and for scheduled boats. It is therefore gratifying that we are taking a new step forward by entrusting the government with the task of facilitating the development and deployment of supply vessels operating on Norwegian base, zero and low-emission technologies, as well as identifying the need for the expansion and use of shore-side electricity services in all major Norwegian ports. Sufficient cut in CO2 emissions is not realistic without extensive capture and storage of CO2. Much money is all invested in the development of this technology, but there is also a lot to be invested in the future. In Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, the development of clean production technologies in process industry and CO2 management was selected as two out of five priority climate policy areas. But there's two sides here. We're going to develop both the technology and make sure it's put into use. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that good framework conditions and instruments are important for the industrial actors who assess the capture and storage of CO2 and we are pleased that the government is now given the task of exploring the value chain and funding model for the exact capture and storage of CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2977	Let me start by saying that I do not stop to be surprised at the fact that a significant share of Norwegian national politics is still surprised that we have a government consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. There are two of the parties in government, and two of the parties are only represented on the Stortinget. Today shows that there are good solutions in the axis between the four batches. But it's not that the Progress Party and the Right have presented an energy message that we just took for granted that the Left and Christian People's Party was going to join. Now it's going to go to the next game in football-EM, I guess a lot of people have come along. But there are a lot of national games. When we decided to introduce the electrical certification system, we also established in many ways a national struggle between Norway and Sweden in terms of hydropower development. When the red-green government was coaching the Norwegian national team, we paused to lose 6–0. Almost all the extensions that came within the electrical certification system came in Sweden. They affected the Norwegian power system exactly the same, because we have a Norwegian-Swedish power system. But all the expansions, all the jobs and all the value creation took place in Sweden. We transferred giant values from Norway to Sweden. I don't think we're going to be able to win that national game, but at least I think we're going to be able to play as well as the Swedes because of the new majority in this hall. When we introduced shorter depreciation time on wind power construction, based on the same majority that is now behind the energy communication, we were given far more expansions in Norway. We have heard today of the Fosen, which is going to be Europe's largest wind power project. We've heard about Hamnefjell in Finnmark, north. We have not heard of – at least not from the representative Tvedt Solberg – wind power development in Egersund. All have been decided in a few months behind us, and they will make important contributions to increasing renewable energy production in Norway. The market is not our friend, many have said. After all, it is the market that ensures that we are able to make the best use of energy resources. But that market must be based on the level playing field: we all play by the same rules. Norwegian data centres did not play with the same rules under the red-green majority – with blindfolds and backbound they played football. Now we have reduced the electricity charge for data centres, so we can use the power for new industries and new industries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e2988	Let me, in the name of propriety, give credit to the Council of State Lien for the part of the message that involves the possibility of early refusal of concession treatment, for the introduction of a national framework for wind power, and for the government to limit the extension of concessions to what I would call the worst wind power projects. I think that's good, and that's what the Council of State deserves credit for – that's what it's said. If I'm going to go further on what I think is very critical of this big message, the relationship that is related to two statistics that we rarely mention. One is energy use in Norway per capita, because looking at energy use in Norway per capita, we are at the top of the world. If you look at BP's statistics on this, we'll be on top of that statistics every once in a while, together with some other big energy countries when it comes to energy use per capita, like this. Iceland, watering in lava. My point of saying this is that when we compare ourselves to other countries, we leave off the fact that we waste more energy than any other country in the world. At least we're all the way up there on energy use. It's made us rich, but we have great potential to cut. The second is that when it comes to the renewable share, we leave aside including the offshore sector and all our energy consumption there, and that sin also commits the Council of State in this round. This is because EU legislation provides one way of calculating this, and to which we relate in the case of the renewable directive, but reality we need to see that table, to tell ourselves that we are a country that uses mainly energy produced from fossil resources. That's why I come back to what's at the heart of my criticism of the government, and where they haven't delivered on what the Storting asked for: where's the plan for phasing out fossil energy? If you don't have that plan for phasing out fossil energy, you do what the government does, that is, cancel the green certificates. The scheme of green certificates is to drive not only technology but, above all, renewable energy, so that we have the opportunity to replace fossil energy. But when you don't have a plan to phase out the 167 TWh with fossil energy that we actually used in 2014, that is, the amount of fossil energy we used then, it leads to a short-term conclusion that goes on: Maybe we don't need a certificate market and a certification system? But we need 70-80 TWh a year of renewable energy if we're to push the fossil. And when you don't have a plan to phase out fossil energy, you cut out renewable energy, and then fossil emissions continue to increase, as planned by the climate minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3001	One thing is that it is important with good and long-term framework conditions for energy production in Norway, and much has happened since the previous energy message was treated in the Stortingen nearly 17 years ago, but even more importantly, it is how we use the energy. By comparison, Norway’s car park has an average age of 10.5 years. Our buildings are often much older than this. Many public and private buildings have been upgraded in several stages over the years to keep up to date with building and energy requirements through, for example: use of other construction views and after-insulation. There is a high potential for energy efficiency improvement in the existing building mass. The majority of the population will have a target of 10 TWh reduced energy use in existing buildings compared to today's level. To achieve these goals, good economic incentives are important. There is no ban, as the opposition adds. One-sided ban never motivates. The Progress Party and the Government have had an impact on the tax-reduction scheme for an additional private household measure and there are good support and support schemes through Enova for phasing out fossil oil as a heat source. I don't know if it's a good parliamentary expression, but we call it 'the four for the crow' when we make heat that nobody uses. It's expensive to four for crows. Therefore, it is advisable to have a suitable temperature in the rooms we use, but not so wise to heat up spaces that are empty. Besides, not all rooms need to be equal to heat. There is no need for much heat at night. We're doing a lot indoors in Norway. It may also be one of the reasons why asthma, allergies, and airway plagues are high in countries. Error inside temperature is one of the factors that leads to a bad indoor climate. In addition to reducing energy consumption and electricity, a good indoor climate can also provide health benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3017	The debate has shown that energy policy is a topic of concern to many, and that many are very aware of both the history we have with us as the basis for developing energy resources in Norway and the question of the way forward. The centre party does not disagree with the fact that the green certificate scheme is now being terminated, but we lack strategic action from the government on what is the answer further. What's new, what's the plan for the next 10-20 years for the development of new renewable energy? It can't be that one just says "Que sera, sera" – what happens, it happens. One must in some way have some solid idea of what to do about what to do when the green certificates are terminated, and the government has not delivered them. The sea wind strategy on one hand was a disappointment. The centre party believes that sea wind, hydrogen and sun are natural technological momentum to bet on in the years to come. The councils referred to football and the national match between Norway and Sweden. I would like to say that there are some of us who have repeatedly asked the coach to put in some new players, so that it would have been possible to cancel that match, because the industry has also stated that Sweden has had better opportunities to compete than one has had from the Norwegian side, sail if one has carried out depreciation for wind power. So I have to say that some posts surprise me a little bit more than others. When the case rapporteur calls for the Labour Party and the opposition's options, I think it is rather offensive, especially when we know that the four cooperation parties have simply rapproached the opposition's proposals and put them as their own in the vote. Then it's no wonder it's going to be unanimous. This applies to XVII, e.g. There is nothing strange about it – promoted by the cooperation parties as their own, but it is, with the exception of one word, a copy of a previous proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre. Then I think it's offensive to have a five-minute post that calls for the opposition's strategy. We know what is the strategy from the position, in any case. So to proposal No. 3, a explanation of vote: we know that, in reality, there is a majority in the Chamber for the content of this proposal, but as matters stand, the majority will not be able to express it through the vote. Therefore, the parties behind the proposal will request that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3030	There have been many comments on the Left and Christian People's Party in the debate, and I will answer some of them. First of all, I fully agree that what matters now is that we still need a commitment to new renewable energy, whether it is sea wind or other, but the most important thing in the years to come is regardless of the need to put the force we have into use. With regard to the Workers' Party's proposal from this winter, we go further in the consensus we have on the civil side, both in terms of energy savings, with a saving of 10 TWh, and not least in terms of adopting the ambitions we have in the transport sector. The working party has previously asked how to reach these, and there are three areas where they should be reached. One is that a zero-emission vehicle infrastructure must be built. Then it's hydrogen. Now you get a powerful hydrogen bet where you can get filling stations from next year. And it's about getting a network for charging electric cars. It is important that these decisions are taken now, so that they lead into the work of the national transport plan, and not least that they lead towards Enova, the new agreement to be concluded there. Then, when it comes to getting a green tax change, it's using taxes and taxes, where one demands that the Christian People's Party and the Left vote for what is a proposal from the Workers' Party. But this has already been adopted. I just want to remind you of what has been adopted in the budget for this year. There, the four parties on the civil side have agreed to: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State Budget for 2017 to propose a green tax shift as part of the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission’s suspension. Such a shift shall involve an increase in CO2 emissions taxes equivalent to a sectoral reduction in other taxes. The charging and tax conversion shall be of a magnitude that enhances the climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate emissions.’;» So it's a much stronger wording than what's now in this case, and it would be totally unthinkable for the Left to go into a weaker wording than the one we've already adopted on the civil side. So it's a little bit of a problem that the Labour Party has, that you have a problem with credibility. For some of us remember how it went about investing in biofuels under the red-green government, and I also remember how it was like local politicians wanting to bet on hydrogen without being able to get the support of the red-green government, and bet on public transport without getting the support of it. So that's right, you have to show by action what you want, and it really needs the Workers' Party to do as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3049	The communication we are discussing today actually shows a direction in energy policy. In view of the debate that has taken place, it seems that the direction of government is against – or rather for – less political governance. And just so there's no misunderstanding here: our criticism is not about what the government will, so far, but whether that government and the cooperating parties will not. That's the challenge. It is close to believing that the attitude is due to the fact that the government and the supporting parties Christian People's Party and Left really do not agree – they have only reached a compromise – and this is sometimes the case when the gap in vision is too big. The numerous proposals for concrete actions by the working party and the other opposition parties in the setting up of the Energy Communication should therefore increase the preparedness of government cooperation. The reason for this is that the proposals represent a rather massive expression of the shortcomings of the notification. This should be taken seriously and not be rolled. We also heard that in the last article. And now, fortunately, the government has the opportunity to take hold of this further, if they want to do so, as they did in the proposals that we have made in the past. Yes, they can simply renew themselves. This also applies to the representative of Korsberg, who, instead of all things bridging with the red-green government, is encouraged to contribute positively to the development of good policies in the field of renewable energy and effective climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3066	The energy sector plays a key role in enabling us to achieve the climate goals in the future. The long-term objective is a sustainable and environmentally friendly energy system with low greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve this goal, action is actually to be expected, and the government's message thus bears the mark of a good situational description of how the energy sector is built, rather than action to change, under which the Elvesu was so warmly supported. The large renewable power generation has been the basis of a power intensive industry since the early 1900s. One of our country's greatest advantages has been the availability of clean energy at competitive prices, and it clearly helps to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. But Norwegian industry is living in a constantly escalating technology development and has been at the forefront of finding new climate-friendly solutions. In Norway, the industry is built on natural advantages, and it is crucial that the industry ensures us good, long-term framework conditions that match similar framework conditions to those of industry in the EU. We need a strong transmission system for electricity and then there is a need for large investments in the transmission system, both in the transmission system and in the distribution system. In order to enhance security of supply, we will facilitate the technological development and development of the new market. The development of renewable energy places great demands on the transmission system in areas where the deployment takes place and that network deployment is actually financed from the network lease. However, it is important that the electricity grid should be distributed as evenly as possible and that it avoids disproportionately large amounts being added to grid customers in renewable areas. The balancing of network rentals will be a key challenge in the energy system in the future, and in this way, the government's efforts to balance network costs are lacking. In the Labour Party, we call for a strategy that contributes to the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and other forms of ocean-based renewable technology. Here we cannot see that the government has followed up the Storting decision so far, and in order to get wind in those sails, we are asking the government to now contribute to the realisation of at least one full-scale demonstration park for liquid sea winds in Norway by 2020. Here, there is a need for a significant boost, including political, to make Norway a clear player in offshore wind. Finally, we in the Labour Party presented 45 proposals for an offensive climate package in February, while the government's negotiations with the supporting parties have ended with a much less comprehensive climate and energy package.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3081	Some of the posts have been about the Workers' Party moving down to the Left, and I would say we don't. On the contrary, I have used every budget debate to boast of the Left and have said that the Left has made the budgets greener. But it must be possible to point out, when we have a debate on a big message, that if the Left and Christian People's Party had voted in favour of the more than 40 proposals that are now ready to be adopted, they would have been adopted. It must be possible to say that then it is the responsibility of the Left and Christian People's Party that those proposals are not adopted. Of course, it's a right they have, they don't have any obligation to vote for the proposals of the Workers' Party and the other opposition parties, but then it's also a little bit hidden when, in the future, you're going to criticise the government's policy, when you save them into the Storting. Renewable energy is only environmentally friendly if it replaces fossil energy, and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is quite right when he says that the Stortinget has decided that the government will present a plan on how to phase out fossil energy in order to get renewable energy. We have not received that, and I can remind the climate minister that he has the opportunity to sign up to the debate and answer the questions raised by the government's climate policy. Take, for example: the question of the new car sales: I do not think this debate has been elucidating as to what the government really thinks, whether the party that is now to be responsible for following this up, is the party that first called this completely beyond – whether it is those who decide, or whether it is those who are going to say that there will be zero sales of fossil cars in 2025. That's the spaghetti this government is in. You don't know what you get. The climate minister says he's enthusiastic, the right party says it's misleading, the vice-president of the Progress Party calls it vice-versa. Finally, we were asked from Tina Bru what is the Workers' Party's proposal. The Labour Party's proposals are, of course, the 45 proposals that we made this winter, and these are the more than 45 proposals that we are now promoting here. That should be well known, because many of them have obviously inspired the majority parties, because some of the proposals they have incorporated directly into their own proposals. I think it's great. They would like to rap, they would like to rap all our proposals, it is good if good proposals were adopted, but then you cannot stand and accuse others of not promoting your own policies. Then we have also been asked, if any of the suggestions: why do you promote them if you ridicule them so much? Well, we're also promoting some of those proposals because they're so harmless that it's impossible to vote against them. For example, the Working Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens propose that we ‘set up’ low and zero emissions on the railway. The government, with its supporting parties, says that they will ‘explain the possibilities’ in the context of the submission of the national transport plan. The opposition parties say that they will ‘establish shore-side electricity’ at ports, and the majority say that they will ‘monitor the need’ for shore-side electricity in connection with the national transport plan. Again, there is the possibility of tightening up climate policy. Unfortunately, Stortinget chooses not to do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3098	The temporally fresh tone well covers in many ways the fact that there is reasonably broad agreement on Norwegian energy policy in large and Norwegian power policies, especially in many areas among all the parties in this room, and in other areas a broad consensus between the government parties, naturally but also on the right side and against the Workers' Party. That's the way it gets done. It's natural to focus on what you disagree with, in such a debate, but it's like we agree very, very much. Someone has pointed out that it was surprising that I and the government are busy with the market. It should not surprise anyone in particular that a government consisting of the Advance Party and the Right is engaged in the market. The fact is that the market and effective price formation have been a key element in the development of the Norwegian power system since Eivind Reiten amended the Energy Act in 1991. It is also about to go up to our friends and colleagues in the European Union that the way in which we have organised this, with effective price formations in our power system, is why we operate a much more efficient and climate-friendly energy system, which is also supported by the International Energy Agency, if we compare ourselves with the other countries of Europe. Many people have pointed out that there is no plan here for the period after 2020. Firstly, today’s majority have already made changes that will increase value creation in Norway, established until 2020, and we have provided an energy message that points to how we need to bet on climate and energy efficiency in the transport and industry – the hydrogen strategy takes on both elements, both transport and industry – but also how we need to facilitate power trading in the future. With regard to sea wind, I have responded to Stortinget every time I have been asked, that I perceive that commercial production in a market-based system in Norway is hardly something that will happen with the very first. However, I am pleased that the support we provide from the authorities to producers and suppliers to the sea wind makes us internationally successful, and that we have taken significant market shares in the United Kingdom. Then I am glad that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås points to the national framework for wind power. It is an approach that will simplify both for us by the authorities and for the industry, while at the same time taking into account important environmental considerations in this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3116	First of all, I would like to say that the proposal by the representative Arnstad that proposal No. 3 transmitted, the Right will support. So to answer a little of the criticism that also came from the same representative regarding the post I made earlier: what I requested was not the climate proposals from the Workers' Party. What my criticism was about was that the main figure for the Workers' Party in this case spent all its time criticising what the majority parties had come up with, without actually addressing what the Workers' Party wanted to achieve in energy policy. That's what I wanted. As I also said, I was pleased with the contribution from the representative Henriksen, who I felt was elucidating in that way. The debate is coming to an end. I'll draw some reflections around the debate we've had today. Sam Eyde, Norway's first major industrial man, who swept the Norwegian footfalls, opened the industrial site at Eydehavn in 1913. In this regard, after stating that he had never been a politician, he said he never hoped to be a politician, that ‘something can also be created on old Norway’s knuckles and knots. With good will, perseverance and faith in his cause, it can be smoothed out what looks twisted." And on the other hand, "And let's promise for a while like this to smooth out the little ones and the little ones in our people's character and bring our country forward, small but determined." That's how we built what Norway we know today, small and determined, a little after a while. This means that we are today rusted to grasp the green transition with a good starting point. With this energy message and the reinforced green bet negotiated in Stortinget, we are making it possible for Norway to achieve its climate goals. At the same time, we will continue to develop Norwegian industry and technology and create new industries by using our renewable energy in new areas. Although we don't always agree on all the details, I'm glad that there's a unanimous big deal behind many important decisions tonight. So it is in the nature of a debate that we highlight the disagreements, but as many here today say, even the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, despite his eager criticism in some areas, we are adopting proposals today that are major steps in the right direction. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a good debate. Then I expect that there will be some more recorded now entirely on the tap, but thank you for a good debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3139	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3142	My tippole father built power plants together with Sam Eyde. That's why I think it's kind of creepy that we don't get the opportunity to continue investing in renewable energy on the same scale by the government shutting down the scheme of green certificates. But leave it. I have two questions for the state councils sitting here. One thing is, can the climate minister tell us when the oil fire ban comes as a law, or can he at least guarantee that it will be presented, so that the Stortinget will deal with it during this downtime? The second is the proposal for Decision III, which we are adopting here today, for the Storting to ask ‘the Government to set a target of 10 TWh of reduced energy use in existing buildings compared to today’s level’. When I asked the Council of State about it in the meantime, the Council of State said that this was something he wanted to address with the Ministry of Climate and Environment. But what's the question is, he has control of Enova, and it's Enova that's the most important way of implementing energy efficiency in construction. Is there any target in the Enova agreement before 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3151	I would also like to thank you for a debate that may at times have obscured the fact that there is a lot of consensus about, and that this work done with the energy message brings things forward in a good way. This also applies to the issue of the oil-fire ban. I would like to reassure Mr Eidsvoll Holmås that the proposal will come in good time before the ban will take effect in 2020. Now there is relatively little doubt here in the Chamber and otherwise in society that it will come, but there are some technicalities being processed, and the proposal will thus come in good time before it will come into force in 2020. Then I would like to mention to the representative of August that the uncertainties surrounding the goals of the cooperation parties regarding the passenger car park in 2025 are attached for most people. If it is not for Aubergust, I will now clarify that the target is zero sales of fossil passenger cars in 2025, not as a ban, but as a means of ensuring that fossil car sales stop from 2025. The aim reflects the climate strategy in the papers of the National Transport Plan, a climate strategy initiated by this government. The climate strategy is once again based on the 2030 climate change target, a goal proposed by the government, and which we proposed to achieve together with the EU. Here's a systematic. The Elvesu called for a systematic approach to climate policy. I believe our work and our commitment to interacting with the EU will contribute to more systemic climate policy in the next decade than we might have had in the last decade. I think the Left speaks the truth and the truth – and more should notice – when they stress that they get more out of government than that, for example. SV did in government. It was well, as far as I recall, the Workers' Party they had to pry on in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3161	When the representative Tina Bru takes 5 minutes to describe my post, I guess that means I hit a nerve that weighed some feelings and some irritation in her. Then I might have said the right things in that post. So when we sum up the debate a little, the government parties consistently refer to the period 2005–2013. Very well happened for the country in that period. But when we as a party, the Workers' Party, now shape our policies, we choose to take on what is today's possibilities. We try to look into the future and try through it to shape the best suggestions. I also encourage the government parties to start with it, because it makes you perhaps see a little clearer what the future will bring – rather than being stuck in between 2005 and 2013. Then I could have referred to all the proposals that we have made, which are about power and industry. I don't have time for that; I just need to mention someone: a uniform tariff model to achieve an equivalent network tariff for industrial enterprises – essential to strengthen the basis for investment. We have proposed how Norway should become a significant player in offshore wind power in order to build a domestic market, but above all to ensure that our fantastic suppliers have greater opportunities. We have proposed that we have a new renewable energy support scheme to replace today's green certificate scheme, which targets technology development, power generation and market opportunities for Norwegian technology. It's foresight, and it's right to do it. We've been clear that we want to increase the fund for climate technology under Enova to 100 billion. SEK in 2017 – further escalation until 2020. We are asking that a take advantage of the EEA action space, just to support investment in new industries. I could still. I will end with what has been at the heart of this debate. The oil and energy minister says that they should strengthen profitability by stabilising the market. So he doesn't mention anything about taxes, nothing about the basis, nothing about the framework conditions. It implicitly means that what the Council of State is talking about is a significant increase in power prices in Norway. It's the only way to raise the profitability of the investments. So state councillor Helgesen says something important: the polluter pays principle must become much more important in the period up to 2025. I agree with the heart with the councillor of Helgesen in that very thing. That is why we included in our proposal for zero-emission cars from 2025 that the charging system should be set up to achieve the target. Then I understand that the State Council of Helgesen and the undersigned agree with the perception of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3172	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3186	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3193	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter. There are important questions about this issue, and it is clearly a policy issue that is important and more topical than ever. The proposers point to low wages, overtime pressures, poor safety and deficiencies in several areas affecting large parts of the world’s product production. Norwegian consumers have little information and few rights in terms of transparency and knowledge of how the product has been produced. The proposers believe that there should be a law on transparency and information on how companies deal with societal responsibilities and supply chains, i.e. a law requiring the enterprise to respond to consumers and organisations on issues related to their efforts to improve production conditions. The aim must be to provide consumers with information on ethical aspects relating to the products. The scope of application of the law should be those of, inter alia: textile, clothing, shoes, electronics, ICT, furniture, coffee, tea, cocoa and toys. In the opinion of the proposers, the law should apply to all companies registered in Norway, i.e. all companies importing goods into Norway and at the same time being a legal entity in Norway. The law should, in the view of the proposers, be enforced by a complainant. An overall committee believes that transparency is an important principle, and only by transparency will it be possible to identify how companies produce their goods. In order to ensure that national and international companies do not violate human rights, it is possible to verify what is happening in several stages of production, without this implying that the company must state its business secrets. We, as politicians, are engaged in contributing to increased transparency and increased access to information on the ethical aspects of the production of goods and services. If the ethical information requirement is to have a real effect on products and consumers, the transparency requirements must apply throughout the production chain and not only back one link. The information must entail the fulfilment of a minimum requirement. In its statement, a joint committee refers to the United Nations' guiding principles for business. It underlines that industry has a separate responsibility to protect human rights, including fundamental professional rights in countries in which it operates. It implies that companies must have their own human rights procedures in place where there is a risk of breach of such rights. It is important to point out that several labelling schemes require the ethical guidelines of companies, such as purely ethical labels such as Fairtrade. Official eco-labels such as the Nordic Swan Label and the European EU-Ecolabel also impose ethical requirements as well as stringent environmental requirements. Unfortunately, it seems that manufacturers may find it problematic to publish their own supply chain in terms of competitive conditions. The eco-labels and ethics labels treat this type of competitively sensitive information confidentially and can therefore be good instruments for manufacturers who want to make their social and environmental involvement visible without full transparency about their entire supply chain. Targeted use of eco-labels and ethics on products classified as high-risk products by Diffi, such as textiles, clothing, shoes, etc., in combination with promotional information to consumers, will meet this need of the legislative proposal, in which case the need for manufacturers to protect competitively sensitive information will be addressed. Consumers receive information at the very moment of purchase and will opt out of products and goods without labelling. As a politician, I believe it is important to make market forces work for the best of ethics and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3219	Norway can lead the way in many areas, and the introduction of a possible ethical information law is absolutely a front line in a policy area that creates a high level of consumer involvement in Norway as well as in the rest of the world. The big question is where, if necessary, the restrictions in the law will go. In this way, the working party is positive to an investigation that will allow for the limitations of an ethics information law, if any. Today, ethics information is sought by many. It is a great commitment, and the organisations that are currently working to promote good ethics in Norway are meeting with a lot of consumers. The challenge is that today, suppliers are not obliged to provide that information. One can develop a company that takes ethical considerations and makes good, conscious choices. It is possible to run the business well over time and have an advantage of providing ethics information. Yes, it can be extra profitable – according to business-economic ideas, even – if you have a conscious relationship to this. Stormberg is a company that is an example of how you want to publish this kind of information on your own. The time has come to give full transparency and to us as consumers the right to a certain amount of information – both in terms of production itself and in terms of how the producers work on ethical trade, and in terms of the requirements they place on their supply chain. Bad employment should not be a competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3232	Low wages, overtime pressures, poor safety at work and a lack of respect for trade union work are a major feature of world-market product production. It is outrageous to hear that the totally unacceptable conditions are experienced by workers in large parts of the production of goods. We know that many consumers want more information so they can choose more ethically. They will not contribute to these terrible working conditions. We believe that policy instruments must be used to change this. We need to do what we can, and we believe that a new code of ethics can enable consumers and authorities to contribute together to better working conditions in producing countries. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that a total accumulation today decides that the government will investigate and consider proposing a law on transparency in production sites, on ethics information and on product production, to consumers and organisations. Of course, we are aware that when all parties support the proposal to investigate a law, not all do so on the basis of a complete belief that there is a new code of ethics that is the right instrument. But we all want this to be assessed in more detail, and that is what is important today – that we take one step further towards what might become a new law. Some of us vote for and argue for because we believe in an ethics law, but also we believe that there is a need for an investigation, clarification, boundaries, etc. We don't have the façade on how many stages in the production chain the transparency requirement must apply to. We believe that there is a need for sound balance-sheet assessments regarding the need for manufacturers to protect business and competition-sensitive information against their competitors, in order to give some examples. We, too, who believe in a new law, believe that it is essential that other instruments are also used well. The law is a supplement to and not a substitute for branding schemes, international processes, etc., but we believe there is a need for a transparency and information law beyond the arrangements we have today. In the event of an incursion, the Christian People's Party is in a position to state that labelling and consumer-oriented campaign information will meet the needs of the bill. Of course, we don't mean this. Yes, we believe that labelling and voluntary transparency and information can mean a lot, but we believe it is obvious that today's situation shows that this is not enough. We need more tools. Labelling schemes are all voluntary elements and will not be able to capture those in the industry that will not be open or respond voluntarily. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to legislate an obligation to provide consumers and organisations with information. The Committee emphasises that labelling and consumer-oriented campaign information can bring about significant changes in the market, and refers to the example of the campaign against palm oil, which the Rain Forest Fund and the Green Daily launched. Just the experience of the palm oil campaign is a good example of the need for the Ethics Act. It was the environmental information law that was essential for organisations to be able to provide consumer-oriented campaign information in the context of the fight against palm oil. We believe that an Ethics Act, modelled on the Environmental Information Act, can be an important tool and a step towards better working conditions for these workers. Norwegian consumers have little information and few rights in terms of transparency and knowledge of how goods have been produced. Such information and transparency are being called for more and more. We believe that an ethics law should aim to ensure that the public has access to ethics information and thereby facilitate the contribution of individuals to ethical trade and thus to the strengthening of human and employee rights. We point to some clarification needs and solutions in the proposal for a representative, and we point to the Environmental Information Act, which we know has an important function. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a joint family and culture committee in the vote expresses the Committee's view that more means are needed to ensure Norwegian consumers have the opportunity to make informed choices when they act. In order for the market and consumer power to function, consumers need to know what they buy and that they do not contribute to unethical production conditions in their trade. The Committee considers that there is a need for an investigation and that good assessments are made as to whether or not such a law should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3258	I think the rapporteur had a good presentation of our proposal, so I really have most of the comments and some thoughts. I also think Mr Becquerad presented the proposal in a very good way. Hopefully, we're becoming more and more conscious as customers and more and more concerned with the working conditions of those who produce the goods we buy, whether it's services we buy privately in our own home, or it's goods we buy in the store that are produced in another country. A smaller world helps to provide us with information and shed light on the working conditions of those who produce goods and services for us, and that's very good. The purpose of ethics is, according to the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, ‘to study how to act’. A unanimous committee endorses the proposal to investigate a law on exactly this, on how we should act. And that doesn't just apply to clothes. It is easy to wait for cheap products in the store, not least cheap clothes. In addition, many people would like to have the latest version of electronics, such as phones and tablets. Some of us have a taste for shoes and bags, while others have to have the latest new ones in furniture. The kids want most of the toys and don't ask who made them. The challenge is that most of us buy a lot of new products we don't really need. We want the latest or something new. Especially if it is cheap, it is easy to fall for the temptation. In the proposal, the products I have mentioned are products classified as high-risk products by diffi, product groups that we propose that the law may cover. In addition, it is important to have transparency about how imported food products are produced. We often think a little too little about the production chain when we buy goods and services. The fact that a product is cheap in Norway means that someone gets a little too little paid elsewhere. I think there are many of us who saw the clothing production program in Bangladesh a few years ago, about the textile workers who got a couple of dollars an hour to make clothes for Western brands, and who worked under conditions that were not exactly according to Norwegian HMS requirements. This year, the reality series Sweatshop – death-honoured fashion has upset many. Here, young people have met Cambodian textile workers and seen how they work, live and live as sewers in textile factories. The series has probably given many of us a little bit to think about and maybe helped to change the consumption pattern of some of us. An extra positive effect is that the series has spread to other countries. I think that's well-worked by the Evening Post TV. But it's not good enough for the Center Party just to focus on the textile workers, on those who sew clothes. The fabrics from which they are made are harvested, spun and woven by someone else. We also have to make sure that those who are in the second part of the chain also have viable and acceptable working conditions, which we hope this investigation will contribute to. There's been a lot of focus on clothes, but just as important is enough the market for electronics, as I mentioned. Thinking a little bit through where the products we don't want anymore, ports, who destroys them, picks them apart, takes out the parts it's possible to use again, and in that way contributes to recycling, will also be part of the chain – the environmental aspect as well. Fair trade, or Fairtrade, is a demanding topic. It requires a lot of us, and it requires a lot of those who produce goods and services. In order for us to contribute to a better world, to fairer trade, we need to have information about how a product is produced. An investigation of such a law will cover many questions and issues and thus could be a first step in the right direction. Finally, I think it's well done by the organization's future in our hands. They've been pressing for us to investigate an ethics law here in the country. In their study they have shown that over 72 pst. of us are willing to pay more to ensure that those who make clothes have acceptable pay and working conditions. Only 11 pst. they're not willing to do that. I remind you again that this is about more than clothing production, but I think we're getting more and more who want to be part of a more fair world, and that more of us are thus becoming something more critical to our own consumption, and more aware of where we're getting services, and how the products we've bought have become. That we are dealing with this proposal today, I think will draw attention to internationally, and a legal investigation will certainly be followed with keen eyes of the outside world, for what consumers demand will affect production. The centre party looks forward to a follow-up to this matter, and we are pleased that an overall committee supports this initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3288	For the conscious consumer, access to justice and full information is useful and important. In this way, he or she can better use the consumer power to tell and influence social developments. For an open and well-functioning market, access to justice and full information is a crucial requirement. For workers who work under poor working conditions, with lack of security, prohibition of tradesmanship and pay far below what can give value to life, access to justice and complete information by Western consumers may be vital. The State has a heavy role to play in ensuring consumer rights and openness in goods and services, not least because these types of regulation are part of and secure the social infrastructure of a market. I'm going to illustrate this by showing to a philosopher I don't have the habit of referring to the pulpit in Stortinget, but believe that Adam Smith was a spokesperson for the shareholders, has not read much of what he actually wrote. Smith was suspicious of the motives of the business, and thought they had a tendency to manipulate both the political system and the legal framework for their benefit, at the expense of the rest of the people. He called for social institutions, laws and rules that would channel the enterprise into economic activity in a productive and socially beneficial way. For a business-positive left-man, Smith's right is almost conspiratory when we pull out these sides of his work. But today's proposal for a representative is really about building a better framework for the market, so that one can channel business in a productive and socially beneficial direction. At the same time, there is a reason that one will provide market participants, consumers, better knowledge of relevant information, which is once again a feature of good competition. We did something the same in 2003, when the Stortinget took decisions on environmental information laws. She was presented by the government of Bondevik II, and I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that the Left, as a participant in that government, was very busy getting it promised in place. Environmental information laws are also commendably highlighted by the proposers as a good example of how such a law can be designed. A method to ensure good and informed user preferences are brand schemes. This will also be my and Left's input to the Council of State when it is asked today to sort out an ethics information law: consider also in the context of a standardised labelling system, especially food, and allow consumers to make their choices based on ethical considerations, including bereft, animal welfare and other considerations. Finally, I would like to mention that the Left was asked to be involved as the proposer of the current draft representative. When we chose to stand outside, it wasn't because we couldn't stand behind the proposal to sort out and consider making proposals for a new law, but because we were in doubt about some of the implicit statements that the proposers included in the document. On the other hand, we are very comfortable with the proposal for a decision, which we early announced support for when the proposal came to Stortinget, and which is now in agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3305	I'm glad we're starting today at the end of making clothes chains keep secret who produces the clothes we use. This has made it easier for companies to hide luxuries, miserable working conditions and poor safety. That's what SV will end up with. That is why I should like to commend the rapporteurs and also the committee. An ethics law will make it easier for consumers to choose ethical products, and SV promises to join the fight until the law is passed. In many parts of the world, human rights are broken every day by the production of goods sold to us in Norway. Everything from clothing and mobile phones to coffee, cocoa and tobacco can be produced in companies where people are exposed to health damage or exploited in slave labor or child labour. We don't have to turn the clock back more than 100 years to find unfathomable suffering and death in our own working life. For many toothpick workers at the end of the 1800s, dental work was a first sign that the jawbone gradually rotted away. Serious brain damage and death could eventually be the price to pay for the work on the dangerous substance yellow phosphorus. In 1889, the female feminists demonstrated in Kristiana. They organized themselves, had real strike management and collected into the strike box. They lost their first battle, but they had fulfilled their demands step by step. The fight they started has given us a Norway today with protection agents, trade unions and labour inspectorates. Now the fight against unfair employment for low-cost textile workers has reached the western clothing markets, because our lives are linked to theirs. The laborer's bloodshed hangs around our necks. In the back of many of our clothes, it says «Made in Bangladesh». There were 29 Western companies that got their clothes produced in the Rana Plaza building, which collapsed. When the evening post through its award-winning series Sweatshop allows Norwegian youth to try themselves as textile workers in Cambodia, the tears come from the young, who understand what kind of life the factory workers have. In low-cost countries like China, Bangladesh and Cambodia, it is, to say the least, not always as easy to be a trade union activist. They deserve our support. Consumer campaigns have often led to change. Under pressure from consumers, several clothes chains have chosen to open up where they produce their clothes. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go from openness to justice. We're going to demand that the textile workers get better relationships, but most importantly, they have the opportunity and the belief that it's useful to raise the claim themselves. They must stand together and have the strength to not enter buildings that have cracks in the wall. They need their own voice and cohesion so that they can require regulated working hours and protection against dangerous conditions. But if we're going to be able to listen to their voices, we're dependent on the sound carrying all the way forward. There's much more meaning in asking questions about the workers who sew our clothes, getting organized, if it's actually possible to get an answer. SV has proposed to the Storting that when the State and the municipalities purchase goods, fundamental rights shall be required to be fulfilled. Prohibition of discrimination, prohibition of the worst forms of child labour, prohibition of forced labour, and not least the right to organise and conduct collective bargaining are important international conventions on labour standards which have been accepted by most countries. What will be the consequence of setting basic ethical standards for the goods you purchase? – Well, there's going to be a competition at something more than just a price. I hope that will also be the case when you individually make your choices, but with a knowledge you may not have had before. We have to remember that someone pays the price – someone is doing it today with life and health. That is why an ethics law is needed, and SV promises to be in the fight all the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3324	Too many people produce goods to the world market under inhumane conditions. In addition, this replacement of people very often goes hand in hand with the replacement of nature. Product production that does not pay for the human costs or environmental costs of production is the fuel itself in a global consumption gap that is both ethical and environmentally unsustainable. It is therefore necessary to ensure responsible production and consumption of one of the UN's recently adopted sustainability targets, by which Norway is also obliged. Ensuring ethically sound working conditions for workers around the world is not only a natural moral commitment, it is also an important contribution to social and political stability, and it is strongly linked to a more responsible attitude towards the environment. Therefore, it is both reasonable and also in our own interest to secure these relationships. Norwegian consumers today receive little information and have few rights to transparency and knowledge about how the goods we buy are produced. We may have a legitimate suspicion that the pants we buy at NOK 198 are based on the replacement of workers, but we do not know for sure. We also don't know if the neighboring pants of NOK 2,500 are produced in the same bad way. Therefore, it is a joyous progress that the Stortinget today asks the government to enforce an ethics information law and consider proposing such a law. In a survey that several have already referred to from the pulpit here, over 70 pst. of those who asked that they were willing to pay more to ensure acceptable remuneration and employment of producers. This development is a victory for consumer power, responsible Norwegian companies and solidarity workers, who have pressed for increased transparency about how goods are produced. Organisations such as the Future in our hands, the Rain Forest Fund, WWF and others have contributed in various ways to attention on how clothing is produced, how timber is produced, how natural products, animal products, etc. delivered to us. All of this contributes to a proper development. Ethical trade initiatives support the intention of an Ethics Information Act, and a number of enterprises, organisations and public enterprises want legal requirements for the transparency of workers producing goods imported into Norway. Large Norwegian import companies, as well as employers' organisations such as Works, NHO Handel and KS, agree with LO, YS, Delta, Parat and the Joint Association on the trade union side. The Greens therefore expect the government to react quickly and come back to Stortinget with an investigation and hopefully a concrete bill. An ethical information law must aim to increase the transparency of the working conditions of production companies and to contribute to measures to improve the conditions of workers. Today, companies themselves decide how much information they want to share with us consumers. Some share much, others share little, but equal demands for transparency give consumers the power to promote the good and punish the bad importers and producers. When buying a T-shirt, the trade mark should be required by law to provide information on the working conditions of the production company. For the consumer, it will then be easier to make choices that are ethically right for herself, while at the same time contributing to better labour rights in producer countries. Information on verifiable products and working conditions increases the importer’s interest in better manufacturing conditions with their suppliers. Such a law would confer a competitive advantage on undertakings selling goods which have been produced in a responsible manner. An Ethics Information Act should apply to all establishments in Norway, including those selling not only consumer goods, but for example. industry inputs. Finally, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Centre for their good cooperation on a good and important proposal. An overall family and culture committee is behind examining the legal requirement for transparency for workers producing goods imported into Norway. We are looking forward to the government coming back to Stortinget about this. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3341	As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I share the view of the Committee that consumers should have a real opportunity to make informed choices when they act. Access to information on environmental and working conditions in the supply chain will improve the choice of consumers on the basis of their own preferences. We have seen examples that consumer requirements can push companies to be more open about their own supply chains. However, it is unclear whether making such information available to Norwegian consumers alone will contribute to better manufacturing conditions in other parts of the world, as proposers seem to believe. Despite the fact that seven out of ten consumers state that they will pay more to ensure fair purchases, it turns out that this is not as easily followed up in the day-to-day choices. The proposal to seek out an ethics information law is primarily linked to consumers’ right to information on where and how the goods they purchase are made. In view of this, I think it would be useful to examine the proposal in more detail. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the main challenge, as I see it, is not primarily access to consumer-oriented information. The problem is that for few consumers actively demand this information in which they act. As it is today, the largest Norwegian companies are already obliged by the Accounting Act § 3-3(c) to publish annual reports on their own work on social responsibility. In addition to this, traders are free to make their own work visible and to help consumers make informed choices. I perceive that many businessmen are already concerned about this. They like to share information about production sites and their work on social responsibility and the environment with consumers and other stakeholders. Ethical trade initiatives have an important role to play here. This is multi-party business cooperation to promote systematic work on social responsibility in the supply chain. The 160 members of the Norwegian business community and public agencies commit themselves both to work with social responsibility in their own supply chain and to make annual reports on this work available on the organisation’s websites. In many industries, companies compete to hijack more and more conscious and socially connected customers. The use of labelling schemes, the transparency of suppliers and thorough work on social responsibility in its own supply chain provide a competitive advantage in the struggle for the customers concerned with ethical and environmental issues. Several labelling schemes provide verifiable, consumer-oriented information on supply chain conditions. The Eco-label Swan may be the best-known official label providing this type of information to consumers. An increasing number of establishments see the value of using the Swan to inform them that strict requirements have been imposed on the production of their goods. It is important to encourage all traders to both maintain and make their work visible for ethics in the supply chain. In October 2015, the government launched an action plan on business and human rights. Here we address clear expectations for business to be careful and to identify risks related to the rights of people and workers of their own suppliers. The action plan clarifies the government’s expectations as to how entrepreneurs can discharge social responsibility in their supply chains. When Stortinget now asks the government to investigate a law on ethics information, I will start that work as soon as possible, and keep Stortinget properly informed. I would like to stress that the government wants to simplify legislation and reporting requirements for business. It will be important for the investigation to respond to whether new legislation is the way to go in this area. It is also clear that an ethics information law, among other things. will need to be assessed against commercial policy and competition considerations and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3371	In my article I pointed out that the experience of the palm oil campaign is a good example of the need for the ethics law. It was the environmental information law that was essential for organisations to be able to run consumer-oriented campaign/information in the fight against palm oil. There are some of us who believe that an ethics law based on the model of the Environmental Information Act can be an important tool and a step on the way to facilitating more ethical trade, and not least better working conditions that many work under. Do the councils agree? Is that a trail she'll follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3378	As I also said in my post, I am concerned that consumers have knowledge of the goods they buy, so that they can make good choices and purchases. The execution of workers and human rights in the supply chain, we know, is long-term. It's complicated. The question is then whether an ethics law will be an appropriate instrument to achieve this. I think it's important the work that business is already doing today, and that consumers are busy asking for it. It will help to provide more information on where the goods have been produced and the conditions under which they have been produced. I will follow up the proposal that comes from Stortinget, to investigate this and come back to Stortinget with my own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3387	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 11 and 12 treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3417	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3424	I would first of all like to thank Councillor Horne for having prepared this family communication and thus gave the Stortinget an opportunity to discuss family policy. As the rapporteur, I would like to make a quick presentation of the position before spending the rest of my time on the Christian People's Party's family policy. An overall committee indicates that the family is a basic entity in society. The family is the first and for many the most important of all communities one through life becomes a part of. At the same time, we stress that too many people do not experience the family as a close, caring and safe place. When children are subjected to violence, abuse and care failure, society and authorities shall take action to ensure that the child is brought up safely. The Committee stresses that the right of children to good growth is fundamental. All children have their own rights, and parents have a responsibility to take care of their children and to ensure a safe upbringing. The Committee points out that acceptance and respect for different forms of family and life have increased in recent years. Family patterns and forms of life change. The Committee will ensure that boys and girls have equal opportunities in practice. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government will follow up the action of the gender equality message, and expect it to include all of the Stortinge's decisions in this regard. The Committee points out that many voluntary and non-profit organisations are doing a good and important job of supporting families. The Committee writes a good deal in its opinion on the family protection service, because the Stortinget has asked for a comprehensive case on the provision of family protection. We believe it is important for the Storting as a legislative and admissibility authority to have an overview of and give rise to an overall review, including of the dimensioning of family protection, as well as tasks and finances. With regard to the different financial arrangements and the provision of services to families with children, it is emphasised that on average, families with children have significantly higher expenditure than families with no children and that there is a good social investment to invest in children and families. The Committee refers to the public body which assesses the certainty of financial transfers to families with children and therefore does not address them in any detail. To the Christian People's Party's family policy: Why is family policy so important? This spring, the Christian People's Party has promoted our proposal for a representative who gives a comprehensive presentation of our family policy, the basis of its values and what it contains. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to prioritize schemes that ensure safe growth for children and a good framework for families. It is primarily about children needing someone around them to take care of them. It is essential for them to evolve and for them to have a good life — as a child, and later as young people and as adults. For the Christian People's Party, the goal of family policy is, above all, the best possible growth for all children, and we believe that a good framework for families is among the most important means of achieving this. Family policies can also contribute to social cohesion and contribute to gender equality. But the main purpose is safe growth and strong families. It is important for the Christian People's Party to warn against a family policy designed primarily to ensure participation in working life. We agree that high participation in working life is important, but family policy is primarily about the needs of children and the needs of families. Good family policies enable us to give birth to children in Norway and ensure that children grow up safely. It supports around the families and ensures that both parents can combine family and work life, if they so wish. The Christian People's Party wants parents to have more time with their children, not less. It is an important premise for family policy that families are different and have different needs. The primary goal of the Christian People's Party is a child-friendly society, a society where children's needs are prioritised and given priority. Because children are different and have different needs, it is important that family policies enable families to make different choices, and not all families to choose exactly the same solutions. In conclusion, I would like to point out the good comments in the attitude on family protection and on how the Stortinget takes care of the further development of family protection and of the important partners of family protection, including Alternatives to violence, who offer a specialist service that complements the provision of family protection. I will explain in a later article what proposals we are going to vote for, but I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3468	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3471	The government's family message blends into what is gradually becoming a tradition of this government, that is to say, delivering big-time messages that don't respond to people's perceived challenges. We saw the last thing in the process of gender equality. It got a hard ride in Stortinget to be good for analysis, but very poor for action. And where many of us now expected a message about the family's everyday challenges, we got a message about families with special needs, and a message that is largely about family protection. It's okay, but it's far from what we expected, or the Norwegian families now need. The everyday challenges for families most are completely forgotten in this message. It has no measures to give families more flexibility, more time, it has no solutions to the clutter of time and nothing that can make families more equal and hence freedom of choice more real. The communication and government also clearly have a very narrow view of what family policy is, and it is clearly linked to gender policy and the broad, general welfare policy. The debate on time clamps is often about a very meaningful everyday life – but a stressful everyday life, with fetching, bringing, activities and pressure on family life, which most families know about in everyday life. Of course, political measures can never solve the time clip alone, and we politicians cannot make sure that a stressed dad remembers putting his daughter's rain pants in the bag, or that a busy mother actually reaches that football match, because it's of course a personal responsibility to make everyday life go up. However, there is a need for policies that can give children's families more time together, greater security in everyday life, while strengthening the working line and gender equality. The Family Committee of the Labour Party has previously proposed in our several concrete solutions to meet the challenges most families know about, so that as much as possible there is real freedom to have children and at the same time work or study. We want increased spring ratio. We discuss free kindergarten, extended opening hours and a bet on a better and cheaper SFO. It's time to think again about the infant phase. During this period, for example: just having a half hour extra around the dinner table, a little less stress with fetching in the nursery or a little more time until breakfast means a lot for a family. This type of action is also completely absent from the notification, unfortunately. The freedom to be family must also include more in the future those who want to be family in a different way than the classic core family, for today's families are much more diverse than before. Couples with and without children, cohabitants with and without children, LHBT people with and without children, single parents, cohabiting parents, foster parents, single parents, and friends are examples of the diversity of family forms we have today — without the message taking this on board. Many of the welfare systems and frameworks put around families by the community do not absorb this new diversity and do not meet the needs of diversity. The increase in female participation in employment has been and is a major contribution to employment and to the economy of Norway. Family policies must continue to facilitate the possibility for both father and mother to combine work and family – that care responsibilities are shared equally. Here, too, the government is completely failing by weakening the systems that have proved to be able to combine working life and family life, such as the Dad quota, measures against part-time work and a well-balanced work environment law. Nursing families and families who are struggling must experience that the community is preparing for them, whether it is the health centre, the school health service, the family home, the family protection office, the kindergarten, the school or the workplace. The Community shall jointly strengthen and develop the mechanisms to help these families master their daily lives. But a government that has ambitions about a good family policy cannot go there. It must also be concerned with the broad welfare systems, the diversity of families, timing, student challenges, care families and gender equality. Unfortunately, this government does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3497	It's written shelf meters about the family's supportive, loving, but also destructive properties. Frode Gryten says: ‘The nuclear family returns and gives up cleaning its homes. After a few years there will be no root anyway. They can't find anything, but they'll find luck." Leo Tolstoj says at the beginning of Anna Karenina: ‘All happy families are similar; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.’ Nils-Fredrik Nielsen adds in Tristesser in a selection more laconic to: "Without the family he had never managed to be so much from home." One thing is certain: the family is touching us and irritating us. The family supports, but also creates trauma. Families are built on love, but some are built on hate. The family is for someone the greatest, for others something they would prefer to be besides. This is the first family message since the Bondevik II government made its appearance. Much has happened in the years that have passed. Families have become more diverse and to a certain extent more open. The painting that I grew up with, with mom, dad and two kids, like a girl and a boy, has been expanded with mothers and fathers. It's become foster parents and adoptive parents. Grandparents live longer, and we have children later, so grandparents are more included in the family. Children also often experience an extension of the family concept after their parents leave each other. Families have become more digital. It offers opportunities, but also challenges. The fact that children have their own rights and are not only part of the family has also been reinforced in these years. The balances around this are evident in the strong debate we have on child protection, and in the public debate on methods of education. A lot has happened in recent years since the last notification, and the message now presented reflects this. The notification is knowledge-based and based on research and experience from many societal sectors. Overall, this is the direction of future policy. At the same time, the message is a value document that promises the government, and this party's, view of the family as a basic entity and building block in our society. The title Family – Responsibility, Freedom and Choice refers to the values that should be the cornerstone of family policy. Some of the main points of the message are: that families make the best choices themselves, that family-oriented schemes should be flexible and that families who strive should be given proper help in a timely manner, that conflict prevention and poor health are important and socially appropriate, that safe parents who master their own lives provide safe children with a good framework for participation in the labour market around the lives of families Information technology is promoted as important for family and family life. The Communication discusses technology opportunities and disadvantages and points to the need for increased parental competence in talking to children and young people about the challenges, such as: bullying and online violence. This is a topic that was not very current when the last message was generated, but which is now very much what it is. Not only does the communication address questions about the early childhood but it also discusses the challenges for older children’s parents and children and adults with disabilities. For the first time, grandparents are also mentioned in a big message about families. Family policy should be involved in building the foundation so that the four walls of the home stand firm, but it is nevertheless important that the four walls of the house do not become so impermeable that we do not see when anyone has it hurt. Violence in close relationships makes it safe to fear, and it is important that those who want help quickly get it, but also that at the meeting points that society has with adults and children, in health centres, in kindergartens, in schools, at Nav or elsewhere, they are responsive, dare to ask and are not afraid to intervene. A childhood of parents who don't have the power to take care of children is bad there and there, but also creates ring-effects for the next generation. The message addresses this topic and summarises all the actions that have been put in place to reach adults and children in this situation. There have been major changes in the position of children in society. From being seen, but not heard, children are now regarded as individuals with their own rights, in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is important for children to be heard and involved in matters relating to them. This is an important and comprehensive perspective in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3559	The family is the most valuable community you can have. The family is building up to be a security arena in life, from children to adults and from generation to generation. Society around must support when family challenges arise. Most families will do well by themselves, but when there are downpours that the family itself does not tackle – economic crises and others – there must be a security of life around one. Development, relationship building, security building, love and care can be found in most families, but of different degrees and weights. A lot of people have been with the family since the last hit on families. To go back even further in history, as a mother, I would like to say that I have had the joy of having children both in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, and one should only mention the parental leave, which has increased monthly over many years. Several women are in full-time work, and they take more education. Occupation where it was mostly men, has now been turned up and got more women. There are many more opportunities for self-reliance as a self-reliance individual and family today. Communitys, which were almost unknown until the 1980s, are now almost the most common. Grandparents are more active than before, and most work when they become grandparents, both women and men. The elderly live longer and are more healthy. At the same time, one needs to see that there are several challenges. More people live alone, and loneliness is an increasing social problem. At the same time as we live in a good country, we have more people who need health services, and more people who need advice and assistance in different areas. Multiple families are being dissolved, and the number of conflicts in life breaks is increasing. We are still struggling with a high level of absenteeism, and there are still considerable differences between the various services provided by the municipality and the municipality. The government will focus on families with this message. One sees the challenges in different areas, and one works well with challenging responses. At the same time, it is important that families should be able to stand on their own legs, even when it is slightly opposed. Flexibility and choice for each family are important. Although the government will secure and support the family in several areas, there is also an area where more work is required. Income insurance schemes must be good, and one must strengthen the fight against child poverty even more. So far, the government has given this area a boost by both providing a poverty strategy and even focusing a lot on the area. Powerful and sexual assault is another treason against family members, and the increase in this is serious. Both children, young people and the elderly are exposed to violence in close relationships, and several large-scale messages address this issue. The government follows this up with many measures. Prevention in the municipalities needs to focus more on, and a stepping-up plan is on-going – and we are very pleased about that. Technology has also become part of the family’s everyday life. This is both at good and at bad. We might talk less about each other physically, but we're sending messages and Skypes in a fly. At the same time, there is a great flow of information that can help improve family information. Updates and possibilities of what to do about challenges and problems are easier to get to know. That's good. Voluntary work is important for the family and needs to be given an even better focus in the future. The Family Protection Service is also an area where the government has invested heavily, with additional resources and settings. This is an important area that should be developed even more before prevention, across different services. Helping families to be good and safe is an important work. I would like to highlight in particular that the government will establish an online, interactive, easily accessible and knowledge-based parental advisory service, so that a person can master his own family situation as far as possible. It is important that parents are equivalent caregivers both during life and after a break in life, where the best of the child should always be superior. We need more research from the child's perspective on families through life breaks, divided housing and moving. The government is busy with family and their place in society at any given time. The party of progress is very pleased with this, a party that always has a big heart for the family's woe and well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3587	Together with the vote on the Stortingsmessagea Family – responsibility, freedom and choice, which was approved by the Swedish Council on 15 April, we are now discussing the vote on the proposal for a representative of the Christian People's Party on family policy, which was presented to the Stortinget on 12 April. The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is eleven proposals for decisions. None of these proposals have been addressed by the Christian People's Party in these two settings, and it's rare. I would like to say that it is a little strange that you do not follow up your own proposals with proposals for decisions when you have given the impression that this is something you will sort out. This is the first major communication on family policy since 2003, and it is an important topic. The center party is a hot defender of a family with different content as the basic unit and building block of our society. The title of the main message — responsibility, freedom and choice — shows only some of the values that should be the cornerstone of family policy. Community assisting one another, rapid assistance is a double aid and systematic look from the public to improve life and assist those who are struggling are also important sentences for the Centre Party. The message has a lot of information, but a weak analysis of how different economic systems promote or weaken the community in the family or community between people. The Storing Message is weak in its direction and has few concrete actions. The committee has done a weak job in my opinion. The government's gender equality message was also relatively inconclusive, but the committee did a lot of work there and got direction. At the time of the day-care centre notification, the Committee also took a new direction, promoting central proposals, while the communication on family policy is little about concrete, binding measures. Why does one come with a down payment message when one does not have a content in terms of financial arrangements? All established schemes are in play, no direction indicated, the government only mentions them. The centre party has therefore had to make loose proposals in order to ask the government to return to the Storting in important areas of family policy. I am therefore promoting, on behalf of the Centre Party, our proposals 2-9 and 16-18, which are a further development, among other things, of the Christian People's Party's proposals in the proposal for a representative that they do not promote. The centre party does not support suggestion 1 in the configuration. We support the proposals 11, 12, 13 and 15 from SV. We do not support SV's proposals 10 and 14. The proposal of the Centre Party covers many themes. This concerns child welfare, which is now being attacked by multiple batches. After the assessment of the centre party, it must be ensured as a universal system, without taxation and need testing. This relates to the cash support, which needs to be further developed and the real values must be secured. It deals with the spring quota at maternity leave, which the centre party believes must be reintroduced to 14 weeks. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party point to comments in the attitude to family protection, which have challenges of centralisation and having enough capacity. We propose that the Stortinget should discuss the development of family protection on its own. The one-time benefit is a scheme that the Center Party will develop. The difference in financial arrangements for birth-related women who are not related to work at birth is large, and the one-off benefit is also important for students. The fact that a family message is not clear on the challenges of the provision of childbirth and childbirth is alarming. There are issues in the media about every week about the capacity and quality of food supply. The provision of midwifery in the municipality has not been strengthened in line with shorter lay time in the maternity wards. New food supplies are now being built in view of the fact that pregnant women will be in hospital after birth for six hours — not days. Then the midwife's offer in the municipalities must be strengthened. Also pregnant women need a real offer to go to the midwife in pregnancy. Now it pays for the municipality to send pregnant women to a doctor, because then the state pays. Here one has to go through the mechanisms to stimulate municipalities to strengthen the midwifery service. The centre party has proposals on family weeks and will refer to the debate last week, when the Stortinget discussed the issue of measures for multiple families. The centre party then announced that we would make suggestions on this in the family message. We do not propose that it be a statutory right, but that it should be a system in all municipalities for families with special and urgent needs. Hege Ulstein in the Newspaper had a commendable article that went into it under the title Family Excursion, where she among other things. said that there is a measure that could help them, namely a family villain that can step in at short notice when a crisis arises. As mentioned earlier, the Centre Party has re-examined three of the proposals of the Christian People's Party, partly alike, partly further. It is important for us to also facilitate better arrangements for students who have children by getting good arrangements and better social welfare arrangements. It is important for us to ensure that the economic situation of the parents in their first year of life is more equal to what we have today. The strength of the family we experience when it comes to someone, so it's important that those who have good families show a roughness so that we use the community's resources for those who don't have the same strength when you're in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3613	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3616	Today, when the Storting manages a message about family and family policy, there is a lot that could have been discussed, not least because the "family" issue has been so much more frequent only in the run-up to time since the previous family message was handled here at the house. And the policy we're running now, get dimed others to follow for more. For the left, there's a value in itself that people are different and make different choices. Respect for inequality is inclusive, for respect means curiosity in meeting with the unknown and tolerance that the good life is not equal to everyone. Different lives will be lived in this country – fortunately. This is an understanding that has gradually been joined by most parts of the Stortinget, but I still have a certain need to remind you that the road there has not only been bone. Not many years have passed since the Storting debated the marriage laws, and the voice-giving clearly reflected that respect for different lives had not come to an end all over the world. With all that said, a message about families is primarily about children and the growing-up conditions we give children in different families. The children's best is and shall be the leading principle. In Norway, the vast majority of children grow up in safe families. Youth generation is better off at some point in the past. They know a stronger relationship with their parents, take longer education, are less criminals and use less drugs. But even though the large majority have a good growth rate, some of them still fall outside, and they've been awarded families who can't give them the security they need. More young people also struggle with mental distress. With fairly simple grips, we can help to ensure these children better quality of life and social mobility far beyond the first years of life, at least for a while on the way. But as with most simple grips, they cost money. A lot of good work has been done in the family field during this ageing period. In particular, I would like to highlight what we have achieved in the various budgets: the fight against child poverty – a commitment to discrimination both against child protection and against the provision of childcare facilities for low-income families – and the commitment to family protection. I am particularly pleased that the last one has got a central place in the message. I would also like to take the initiative in health and school health services. In the last week, a rapprochement was held between the majority of the parties on an escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. In other words, we have taken a lot of important steps to ensure that those who, for different reasons, fall outside at an early stage of life have the best chance of getting the security they need. I am also happy that we agree to continue with that work. I note that the family message is a bit like the other messages we handle on the family front this six months, such as the equality message and the fosterheim message – what does not stand is easier to criticize than what actually stands. And what's not there is a lot of money. That job is understood that we should contact the budget of the cottage. It is true that most of the proposals put forward by the Central Party and the SV in the Chamber today – many good suggestions – are also about money, and are therefore home to the same debate we are taking each fall. Since these loose proposals were known, we have simply not had the time or the opportunity to go the rounds we have to go if we had supported these types of proposals. But I would like to stress that the Left basically supports both intention and ambition in many of these proposals. We therefore take away the right to come back to this in a separate way in budgetary context or in other ways. Some of the proposals also open doors, e.g. proposal 17 on social rights for self-employed workers, which we are already in a good position to resolve through previous budgetary rounds, and which are in process. However, we find that we can support proposal No. 1, point 5, paragraphs 14 and No 16th@item: inlistbox Several of these are variations of suggestions we have made in previous debates. Otherwise, of course, we are open to the arguments that are led by the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3638	It is particularly felt to treat a family message right after one of the most serious attacks on love and diversity in our time, just after 50 people have been killed to be in a community of people who are happy with other people of the same sex. It sets out headings and concepts of responsibility, freedom and choice in perspective. Once again, we must state that we are never in the goal – we are not near the goal until someone's love ceases to arouse the hatred of others. Love is by no means always equal or fair. SV has made some proposals here today that we believe are necessary to strengthen this message, and to strengthen the people who are subjected to violence by their loved ones. Violence in close relationships is a social problem. Neither individual relationships nor society can be called equal as long as someone is kept under attack, by power, by control. But we must also never live in the illusion that violence does not come and can hit blindly in one of the world's most equal countries. To combat societal problems, work needs a systematic approach; awareness is needed; action is needed. We therefore propose that all municipalities should have action plans against violence in close relationships, and we suggest that municipalities should be guaranteed competence-enhancing in the field. Furthermore, we see that there is a need for accommodation after an end to stay at the crisis centre and suggest improvements through the House Bank to remedy it. We also propose to strengthen the child perspective through a housing policy that can better address children's need for safe housing, as well as through changes in the Child Protection Act to a rights law. Then I have to say that it is gratifying that the Committee in the examination of the family communication emphasises that the family should be a safe and upbuilding community, that there are broad welfare systems that are the basis for everyone's security and good life, and that freedom is a fundamental value. That is why I hope that all parties can be brought together today on the proposal that SV is promoting that a case be brought before the Stortinget to reform care pay and care allowance as soon as possible. I draw attention to a slight change in my own proposal. We are asking the government to present a case on improving care and pay for the Stortinget as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2017 budget. It should be unproblematic to join in all the time actually stated in the government statement that this is going to happen. Many families in a difficult life situation with young people who have such a great need for help that it may require vigilance, care, time and love 24 hours a day, wonder when these changes will take place. If your kid is seriously ill, you have some of the heaviest concerns it is possible to bear. If you do not have income and security for bread and housing, it may be defective. The red-green government did investigations and preliminary work. Now it's about going from paper to practice. Whether that is how we all agree that this is necessary grips and improvements, we should listen to those who have known that it has been hasty for a long time. The representative of Trettebergstien said that this is not a message that meets everyday challenges and needs, but only concentrates on them with help needs. I'll say there's a piece left until it actually does. SV has made some proposals today to improve on it. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3657	The representative Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3660	The family is the basic unit of society, building block and value-distributor. With this communication, the government wants to highlight and strengthen the role of the family in society and to highlight the key prerequisites for the proper functioning of families. It's been 13 years since a family message was promoted, and a lot has happened in the community around us, both here at home and out in the world. The family is an important resource and is essential for good mental and physical health and mastery. The Communication suggests that the broad diversity of family forms should be respected and supported once central values, laws and conventions are respected. The family makes the most important and best choices themselves. Welfare services provide families with the opportunity to make good choices that fit their own everyday life through, for example: health care, parental pension, one-off maternity benefit, kindergarten, school, child protection, family protection, housing allowance, transitional benefit, care for the elderly, etc. At the same time, services are not always equally well coordinated with families with complex problems. Some experience being wasteballs between different public services. One of the objectives of the Communication is to emphasise the need for local coordination of family services, prevention and early intervention. I want to draw many good examples from municipalities that do a good job in this field. Typical family services are co-located in family centres or the Family House. These municipalities are better placed to meet the need for comprehensive and coordinated action against each family. Seven out of ten parents are safe in the parent role, yet this is not a contradiction to sometimes needing help and guidance. Family protection services have been strongly strengthened in recent years. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has put in place a historic commitment to family protection. Over the last three years, the budget has increased by over 90 million. kr. This has resulted in an increase of more than 60 years of service. The increase will strengthen treatment capacity, reduce waiting time and increase the scope for prevention and cooperation with other family-oriented services. In order to ensure greater and more robust professional environments, family protection services have undergone a process where small offices have been merged. The provision of the population has not been affected by this. The need for advice, treatment and mediation is addressed by out-of-office and branch offices. The total number of locations is similar to before the aggregations. It is my hope and wish that more families will use the low-threshold provision for couples and family therapy, as well as mediation in the event of a break-in, and I will also launch a survey of how families with immigrant backgrounds use the family protection service to prevent problems that may arise. It is important that family protection can work more preventively in cooperation with municipal services to prevent life problems and conflicts from leading to serious family problems and life crimes. We have started an investigation in this area and, in this context, we will consider getting clear text on preventive work into the family protection office law. The Communication discusses how families and parents can receive advice, courses and programmes to strengthen their care skills. Parental support is provided by municipalities, non-profit institutions and through the child and family protection services. The challenges for families with disabilities, Sami families and families with a migrant background are raised. There is no need for a problem for parental counselling to be useful. The vast majority of parents and families have questions about education and demarcation from time to time. A digital and knowledge-based counselling service aimed at both families with young and older children will be established. Key priorities in family protection in 2016 are work on high-conflict cases, with families living with violence, and parents who experience child protection taking care of their children. To meet these challenges, there are established centres of excellence. They shall disseminate good competence and knowledge of practices, and that is an important work. The notification refers to equivalent parenthood both before, during and after cohabitation and discusses the provisions of the Children’s Act on parental responsibility, residence and association. Changes in the Children's Act come to Stortinget as a matter of their own. This message is a value document. There is a communication containing 61 actions across seven departments and providing direction for finding solutions that are often found through better interaction. These proposals take care of all families, both without and with problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3693	The installation to the Council of State was a fine article on family protection, but free from the everyday problems of families most. Statistics tell us everything about how ordinary families have it, how common families choose, and what freedom of choice they have. Why does the Council of State think it's the way families generally choose that there is a mother who should be most at home and take more care of children, and that there is a father who should take at least leave and pursue the career dream, while mother doesn't? Is that natural? Is it biological? Why is this common?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3700	Again, the representative Trettebergstuen draws up all the proposals she believes this message does not contain. But there are 61 proposals that are involved in caring for the family, both with the challenges they face and with the problems that may arise. What's going on with this message is that we're lifting up the family as a basic unit, but also that families are going to be able to solve their everyday challenges in the way they think best, respecting that the family has a freedom of choice, that the family knows best. It is true in Norway that both women and men have a unique opportunity to combine working life and family life, but unlike the representative Trettebergstuen, the government believes that the families themselves, at home around the kitchen bench, are able to find out how to arrange their everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3707	Clearly, people choose the best of their own. But this government is pursuing a policy that, in fact, gives people and families fewer opportunities and less freedom of choice by cutting the paperwork, weakening the work environment law, creating more expensive kindergartens and longer queues, increasing cash support and cutting off in response to involuntary part-time – all this all the time with reference to people's freedom of choice. Of course, people should be allowed to choose for themselves, but it doesn't give people greater freedom of choice that you have to work temporarily, that you have to work involuntary part-time, or that a father can't take out his paperwork. Our job as politicians is to ask why people choose what they do. The government is closing its eyes because the small and big choices people make are taken within some frameworks and expectations of society around them and perhaps not always as voluntary as we think they are. Does the Council of State reject the fact that the framework that politics creates around the lives of peoples and families also determines which choices can really be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3716	Today, families have an incredible number of good welfare arrangements that help create a better everyday life for each family. The welfare arrangements, on which there is a political consensus, contribute to making everyday life easier for families. As a politician or a state councillor, I don't need to go into every single home and ask every single family, "Why have you made your choice yourself, that way?" I have faith in the families, that they are able to make the choices that are best for their family there and then. So it is now possible for families in Norway to have the good welfare arrangements – both parental, nursery and cash support, which have been important for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3723	There are some clear comments in the communication to be able to provide children with their own conversations with family protection. In 2014 it was only 7 pst. of the children who were offered their own conversation. We have expectations that both the decision making process and the increased budgetary resources will produce clear results. Can the Council of States say anything about what kind of level she sees that we should have been able to reach during 2016? Is she satisfied that only 10 pst., 20 pst. or 30 pst. of all children to receive an offer of their own conversation with the family protection? The decision to cancel is «all children», right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3728	I am very pleased that we have received support that with the funds that the government has now provided, more children will have the opportunity to have a conversation when their parents go to mediation or in family therapy. I am also pleased that the figures show that the increase and the effort we have had on family protection has caused more children to have this conversation. The right of children to be heard is fundamental in all the legislation here in Norway, and it is important that family protection offices work in this way, so that we can offer each child such a conversation where it is desirable for the family. It's hard for me to say if it's going to be 7 pst., 10 pst., 20 pst. or 100 pst. I think we all wish that all children were given the opportunity to be heard and have such a conversation, and that is what we are working from now on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3735	We know that new food supplies are being developed today, which means that the birthers are going to be in hospital for six hours after birth. Among other things, the Haukeland hospital adds up to 40 pst. by birth, the patient is expected to leave the hospital within six hours. It shows that there will be a growing need for a good midwife service in Norwegian municipalities to ensure proper follow-up of mother and child in pregnancy and maternity. Will this policy from the specialist health service, which is the responsibility of the state, lead to the State Council returning to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a case of increased midwifery provision in Norwegian municipalities, so that it pays for municipalities to have their own midwifery offer and not refer to doctors, as is often the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3741	Now this is not entirely my responsibility, but I'll try as best I can, to answer the representative. This is how, as the representative says, when mothers who have given birth are now going home earlier, a good offer is needed in the municipalities. That is why I am very pleased that the government in the budgets, in cooperation with both the Christian People's Party and the Left, has increased the offer at health centres, and not least the earmarked funds that have now come to health centres. There are important measures to enable municipalities to invest in health centres. Then it must be up to the individual municipality if they want to hire midwives in that bet, or if there are other ways they want to fix it. That's where I believe in local democracy. However, it is important that municipalities have a good health service at the health centres for mothers and families early in life in order to be able to get in and help, so that they can prevent them better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3748	The council says in its speech that she has faith in the family and in the family's freedom of choice and the ability to make reasonable, wise and thoughtful choices. Then we see that there's something a lot of families want, so it's taking care of each other when someone's sick. It is especially important for parents to be able to take care of their children when they are ill, and to be able to take care of their children for a long time. That is why SV today is proposing that the care allowance scheme, the care allowance, should come to Stortinget as a matter of urgency. That is why I wonder whether the Minister for Children sees the need for children to have a safer environment in which their parents are guaranteed financially when they are going to be at home and take care of sick children, that improvements in care arrangements and pay will make a positive contribution to it, and that there is an urgent need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3753	I'm busy with all the families that have challenges in their everyday lives, whether they have children who are sick, or, as we discussed last week, have had multiple births, have had more children at once. Therefore, it is important that municipalities have good measures and offers for families, meeting the needs of each family. The government has invested in parental support measures outside the municipalities and has increased the allocation from 3.5 million. NOK 16 million. kr. There are money that municipalities can spend on this work. I know that the Minister of Health is now working on a bet on relatives, which is an important work towards relatives of children who are ill, or other relatives who need extra help. What is important is that we think prevention, that we come in early to help each parent to become safe and good parents for their children, and that families get help with the challenges they face in some phases of family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3762	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3767	The family message addresses important areas for all in Norway. There are many important themes. It is important to secure families in this country – for the benefit of families and children. Then I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party says that the family protection service is not up to date. What about the everyday challenges? Yeah, then I think there's a lack of knowledge at the Workers' Party. It's not useful to sit and design family policies at Youngstorget. You should go out to the family protection service. Because it's a hidden treasure. It is a free low-threshold offer, and those who work there are skilled professionals with a high level of competence. Norway is unique in terms of family protection offices. The offices are scattered throughout the country and are both public and church owned. It is not the case that family protection offices are divorce offices alone. True, couples who divorce and have common children under the age of 16 have to come to mediation, but that's best for the children. Family protection is so much, much more: couple therapy, family therapy, prevention, out-of-work work and conversations with children. The service has received a historical budget increase of more than 90 million. kr in the last three years. Many people have experience going to the family protection office, and that's not a defeat. Many are helped to deal with everyday or crisis situations, with advice on putting children in the centre. One goal is for more children to be heard and involved in matters relating to them. That's why the Family Protection Office has been strengthened by five million. kr in the year, for just conversations with children. Family protection figures last year show that there is already an increase in conversations with children. An important proposal in the Communication is to assess the legalisation of preventive work in the Family Protection Offices Act. I understand that the government, with Solvency Horne at its head, wants close cooperation with the local family services and family protection. Overall competence needs to be exploited better, for the benefit of families who are struggling – before the crisis becomes acute. I am still amazed that the Workers' Party can say that this has nothing to do with everyday challenges for families with children. That's exactly what it has. As I said, family protection is a hidden tax in this country. We have to turn this around, and we have to build on this. That's exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3784	As I said, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with the opportunity to discuss family politics in the Stortinget. There are not so many weeks since we discussed another important message in this room, namely the equality message. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the Storting is aware of the relationship between family policy and gender policy. We believe it is necessary to think about equality and family at the same time, not either – or, and that the key to good family and gender policy lies in the interaction between these two. It is important to develop policies that respond to family needs and gender equality. Family life is best when it is characterized by equality and equivalency, and the gender equality struggle deals with issues such as gender equality. on the right and ability to combine children and families with participation in working life, in society and in decision-making forums. It is an important part of gender equality policy to ensure that parents can participate in working life if they so wish. Women and men today meet different expectations and are limited in their choices. That's not how it should be. Gender equality policies therefore need to ensure equal opportunities, equal pay, equal work sharing between mother and father and the ability to combine work with family life and having children. Family policy is primarily about the needs of children, a safe growth and good support for families. The Christian People's Party believes that the good political solutions exist in the interaction between these considerations. There will be no good family policy if there is a lack of a gender perspective and equality policy will not be good if it does not help us to combine work and family life in a good way. With regard to the voting order of the Christian People's Party today, how we are going to vote, it is that, in addition to the family announcement, the Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal for a representative in which we propose a number of concrete proposals that we believe can improve family policy. Many of them are budget proposals that we take with us to the harvest budget rounds. In our alternative budget, we describe which of these proposals we believe must be prioritised in the budget for 2017, and the budgetary negotiations will show which of these proposals we are getting through to. We are therefore not promoting the proposals now, but we are returning to this when we are going to give priority in 2017. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd paragraph 4, paragraph 6, paragraph 7 and No Eight. As regards proposal No: 4, where the real value of the cash support is to be ensured, it is to say that the real value has been well preserved through the marked increase we received in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3799	It is quite special to hear criticisms especially from the Workers' Party about this message. They even sat for eight years and didn't think it was important to deliver a message. You have to go back 13 years to find something. That they are now very engaged is a little credible. Norway is one of the most equalised countries in the world. Norwegian men and women have a unique opportunity to combine family and work life. One of the main prerequisites for the family to function well is to be in paid employment. Family policies and paid leave make it much possible for both parents to be in work and at the same time to take care of the family. I am pleased to represent a government that has put the ‘Children living in poverty’ strategy on the agenda, a good tool for combating poverty and that has received budget increases in recent years. Bufdir has been given the task of developing a set of indicators to make it easier for municipalities to identify children and young people affected by poverty. Nav has started with several pilot projects where vulnerable families with complex problems meet together and coordinate. These families should, among other things: learn budgeting and economics to get help in the various services. The communication underlines some important frameworks around family choices: employment, income development, income protection and housing. This government has strengthened the housing support and the number of rental homes. Every day decisions are made in the family that matter to the family economy. The debt level in Norwegian, young families is high, but most are able to serve their loans. The Communication refers to economic training for young people, different portals for price comparison, debt advice and the importance of good and correct information on consumer rights so that people can make informed choices. I will give tribute to the government and the Council of State, which will strengthen the efforts to combat child poverty and prevent poverty from inheriting, among other things. by following the child poverty strategy ‘Children living in poverty — Government’s strategy against child poverty 2015-2017’, further develop the grant scheme targeted at child poverty, follow up the implementation of the Sjumils step in the municipalities, where a checklist has been drawn up on how municipalities comply with child convention provisions, develop and test an overall follow-up programme for low-income families at the Nav Office, follow up on housing market strategy and ‘House for work — National strategy for housing-social work’, continue personal economic training, such as the Financial Portal, the Economic Note and the Chief in his own life, and follow up on a new action plan for universal design — the list is long. In addition, this government has strengthened child protection, increased competence and guidance just to keep the family together, which should have been done many years ago, but this government has taken action. When the Workers' Party criticises, it's a little credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3816	Family and growth are something most of us have a relationship with. It provides an important framework for children and young people in their most important and first phase of life. Family relationships also have a major impact on society's species and human basic values. The issue we are about to deal with today in this Chamber is therefore extremely important, and I am pleased that the government is raising family policy through this big message. Safety and predictable frameworks are the key prerequisites for healthy and healthy growth. Violence in close relationships damages and destroys these assumptions, and affects people where they should have been safest, namely in the family. Violence in close relationships includes all physical and mental violence and threats between current and former family members. It also includes children who witness family violence. Recent studies show that, unfortunately, violence and sexual abuse affect a significant proportion of the population. Older people are also a vulnerable target group. Unfortunately, there is still darkness when it comes to warning such violence. Tabues and shame are linked to the notification of a family member or other related person. Children are not to be subjected to violence and care failure, and we all have a responsibility to report from where we believe that such conditions take place. Violence in close relationships is also a significant public health and gender issue. Therefore, I am pleased that the work against violence in close relations is a high priority of the government. This also includes work on high-conflict couples, both before and after mediation. As I was at the beginning, we know that children are harmed by living in families with high levels of conflict. That is why, as politicians, we must work for zero tolerance for family violence. The government is in the process of drawing up a contingency plan against violence in close relations and strengthening the custody of children who are victims of abuses and abuses. This initiative involves, inter alia: encouraging municipalities to develop their own action plans against violence in close relations and to ensure that knowledge of attacks and sexual abuse is included in health and social education and in primary school education. In this way, we're increasing the possibilities of finding and notifying union-related conditions. With regard to the fact that adults are also postponed, the government will also strengthen cooperation between the authorities and non-governmental organisations against assault. I am pleased, and I am glad that the committee supports it. The Progress Party has always been clear that we want to work towards good support that protects and helps families and children who need it. Violence in close relationships is not a private matter, it's a social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3833	It was never a goal for the Workers' Party in the government to provide messages to discuss the role of the family in society, or what the families are. Instead, we used our time to pursue family policies and provide family policies every day by ensuring that families had the right frameworks around them to live in freedom and make their own choices, and enable both mother and father to combine work with family life. We built out kindergartens, the greatest welfare reform of times, one of the most important steps we've ever taken to ensure that families have a good framework around them. Once again, the government had the opportunity, as they had with the gender equality message, to deliver a message that not only could say something about the family and the challenges they have, but actually put forward policies that could do something about it, once again they have proved that they don't do it when they have the chance. Another message that describes families with care challenges and the needs of special challenges, that's good and good. I said in my post that the Workers' Party is for all kinds of reinforcements and improvements to family protection, but there was no notice of the family protection we were waiting for. We were waiting for a big message about the family's everyday challenges, challenges families can most recognize themselves in, and answers they could believe in. We didn't get that. There is nothing in this message about how politics, with the framework we're going to provide, can help most people to break up in time when you feel like you're not getting family life and work together. There is nothing in the notification of different families, for example: where there are two mothers, a father and a child, on how to deal with out-of-date welfare schemes and frameworks. This message is good for a lot of description, but it is not a message that addresses the challenges most families face, and it does not point to any solutions for them. We in the Workers' Party have other solutions. We want to move on. We recognize and believe that families are more diverse now than ever. We believe that the policy should facilitate people's genuine freedom of choice. Then the policy has to be set up. We see that this government has gone in the opposite direction by cutting into the arrangements and the frameworks that through history have given mother and father real freedom of choice to take care of children and, for example, children. jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3844	After the last article, there is a cross of thought when a reader reads the setting, which is very wordy, that the Workers' Party has not made it visible as the representative of the Trettebergstuen now says. There have been very good opportunities there to show what is the content of what the representative is now saying, so it's quite special. The centre party is not in the committee, so we have a big disadvantage in this. That is why we have also promoted many loose proposals. The Christian People's Party is engaged in family policy, as the Center Party is, and the Christian People's Party is offering eleven proposals in its own representative proposal, which came three days before the government's announcement. As I said, they have not been dealt with now, and we received the explanation from the representative, Mr Becquerad, who says it has to do with the draft budget, and that it is included in the budget's budget's budget's deliberation during the autumn. But it is of course something special that they have not been promoted today, for the budgetary procedure is no news that came after 12 April. I think it is very strange that someone promotes such precise proposals and does not follow them up. That being said, the Centre Party is pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party for five of our proposals. Otherwise I got little time to clarify that proposal no. 17 is in the process of granting seafarers as good rights in the context of pregnancy and childbirth as employees. Sick businessmen have a major weakness in a lower social safety net, both in terms of pregnancy and childbirth, and in terms of sickness, which we have otherwise debated. In proposal No. 18 also asks the government to consider how father can be guaranteed a maritime exit right to parental leave and father's quota. It's important to us. In the end, I would like to say that the family's strength is experienced when it comes to someone in the family. Those who have a strong family community where one helps one another have a great advantage — it provides security. For those families who do not have this, the community must assist more strongly. We experience this need every day when we see how people feel in their daily lives – in the Nav office, in the hospital or in the hospital – where some people have only a few family visits, yes, no one at all. It is therefore important for the Centre Party to have continuous searchlights on how Community money is used to assist those who do not have a strong family to assist one in difficult situations. Improvements are required here for families with low profits. I know it's demanding, I know how difficult it is, but having the continuous look at the people who are in this situation, we think it's a big political task. This is politics, and it's a politically demanding election that the Center Party is concerned that we take every day in our actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3863	I am one of those who think it is a pity that the Centre Party has not given priority to sitting in this committee, so that they could be part of and design family policy in conjunction with the other parties, who have actually done a great deal of work in connection with this communication. Since it's football-EM, it's tempting to draw a story from once we saw John Carew have a jump in the land. He had been so happy to finally get the priests that he got what he himself called the "currency pulse," and the result was that he reached far beyond the goal. It may also be the case for the representative of Lundtegen when he strikes east and west in his attacks on the members of the committee. What has been our appeal to the government's big message in family policy, as it has been in many other matters this spring, is that the government does not take the structural obstacles to equality, for families to experience freedom, for people to solve their everyday challenges. What we see is completely comprehensive in all this government is that yes, you can to some extent describe reality as it is today, but you're not making a single proposal to really tackle the structures that currently hinder the freedom of individuals. So we're left with a government that essentially adds that this field too is privatized. It's going to be every family that gets to figure out for themselves how to solve their challenges. It is in itself a well-known attitude of the Progressive Party that this is not our responsibility, but there are parties on the Stortinget that want politics to protect the families as well. Morten Stordalen was concerned that work is the key to freedom. Yes, we fully agree on that. That's why the red-green government had as one of the biggest efforts in the period we had government power, just to make sure that people had the opportunity to work. We got through the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government, and we have a vacancy that is in strong growth. The possibility for more people to get jobs, for more people to have their own income and through the lack of freedom, limits the government with its total lack of offensive attitude to meeting these challenges. Where we put up cheaper kindergartens, more kindergartens and more fathers could be at home with care for children, development goes in the opposite direction: it's getting more expensive, there's getting more queues, and there's fewer fathers taking out cardboard. We also see this in the challenge of combining work and care, with more temporary jobs and more overtime from this government, where we believe that the policy should protect the family. So consistently, there's a completely different political ideology we see being expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3878	When I hear the representative of Trettebergstuen say that the Workers' Party did not promote their own notification of family policy, because they discussed it every day, then I wonder what they discussed. It doesn't help to discuss if you don't do anything. You come 11 years after you went to government, and when you get a family message, you say everything's wrong. That's good work. Then you might have to go on your own. What did you do yourself? No, nothing. And they say that there's so much wrong here, that's how much you should have done differently, and then you don't promote a number of suggestions. It's not credible. The Labour Party has signed up for family policy. And when I hear Grande say that in this area too, politics is privatized, I am even more happy that we have a Right Party government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, which in fact adds that the family can decide more itself – the family, not the Workers' Party's A4 mindset, where to decide family policies at Youngstorget. This government has faith in the family and in making its own choices, but it is clear that a safety net should be set up when you need it. Once again, I'm glad that we have a government that presents a separate message, discusses it as a separate topic, a separate point, a separate matter in the Stortinget, and emphasizes that the family is the most important thing in society. And we're going to set up for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3887	I think it's a pleasure to read the committee's discussion of this big message, because one should now believe – at least it's an impression – that here's the huge distance between the parties in the committee. That is not the case – what may be a little special about the processing of the message is that it is characterized by so much consensus. All the parties in the committee, from the Labour Party to the Advance Party, are in very many common remarks. So the little argument you're trying to do here, I don't think I'm going to run the family policy one step further. I didn't really take the word primarily to say that, but Per Olaf Lundtigen hasn't quite settled down on what the Christian People's Party strategy has been on the presentation of this Document 8 proposal. We, on the part of the Christian People's Party, have not only needed, but also very much wanted, to promote the whole policy of the Christian People's Party, and we have done so through these proposals that we have promised and which we believe are good proposals. But it is quite clear, and this is also known by the representative Lundteg, that when you come to the budget negotiations, we expect a hard-hitting job – the Senterpartiet knows that very well from its time in government. And that's in the priorities of the budget we're using these eleven proposals, and there we're going to show the Central Party what are the Christian People's Party's priorities. I would rather choose that strategy than risk that all eleven proposals will be voted down in the Stortinget today. That's why we've chosen to do it the way we've done it. Then I also hope that the Central Party will experience the futility that lies in the fact that we are voting for the proposal of the Center Party, which we are in favour of, instead of doing as the Center Party did when they put in government, namely consistently voting against the proposals that the opposition has promoted, even though they were 100 pst. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3896	There's a song by Elvis where he sings 'a little less conversation, a little more action'. I think that if Elvis had woken up today, his hips would have gone too full, for there's a difference between wanting to talk about a thing and wanting to do one thing. There you have the difference between the red-green government and today's government. Several have claimed that the red-green government did nothing. I don't know if that's how everyone who gets to experience common marriage law feels like nothing. When you say that the red-green government didn't do anything, I don't know about all those who experienced a period of more equal parental leave, it felt like nothing. I don't know about all those who have been given breast-free, it feels like nothing. Not to talk about the systematic and long-term work for a more equal working life in terms of combating a part-time culture that is about structures, expectations, gender roles, and that needs to be done in the long term in cooperation with the parties, which is about changing the way we view ourselves, the environment and the role we should have. It is about making demands by telling health businesses that there should be fewer part-time employees and an increase in the number of full-time employees. It's about doing a job in municipalities to have a part-time culture, and working in both the private and the public sectors so that full-time is the job that characterizes women's lives, because it's not modern as it is when women work part-time and men work overtime. It's about seeing the systems: what contributes to bias? It's about seeing that there are structures that you have to work systematically to break down in order for people to have a real free life. I don't think those who experienced that policy will count it as nothing. Then there are some questions as to why a number of proposals from the Labour Party are not being promoted here today. I think the representative Trettebergstuen has answered well for this, and the Labour Party can answer well for itself. But I think it is too much to think that the Storting should save the government every single time you submit a message without content and with a few measures, and that does not embrace the broad policy that you know could work and that could make a real difference in human life. It's the government's job to launch a course. Clearly, the Stortinget saves the gender equality policy in the gender equality report. But I think it is a strange criticism to say: Why have you not saved the policy we served, which was not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e3905	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Case No. 13–41 concerns the second processing of legal acts. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4205	Does anyone ask for the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4208	I ask for the floor because last Friday we dealt with Prop. 90 L, which dealt with restrictions in the field of asylum policy. When we came to proposal No. 18, the Right Party and the Advance Party were to vote subsidiaryly for this, so that that proposal had not been defeated, but that it was given a majority. That is why today there is a proposal for a legislative note that is coordinated with the parties that will stand behind, and which I am promoting the bill on behalf of – the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under A, the following provisions are to be amended as follows: in Law No 10 June 2005, paragraph III is replaced by the following: 51 on Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: Section 16 is replaced by the following: In the case of applicants who are stateless, the conditions set out in points (b), (e) and (h) of the first paragraph of Section 7 do not apply. [[Citizens Act]] Periods of residence or more than one application period are included in the three-year period. Applicants who have chosen to be stateless by their own actions or omission or who can easily become nationals of another country are not covered by this paragraph. The current Roman numeral III becomes Roman numeral IV. ‘... So this is going to be corrected, and the majority is going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4236	Several have not asked for the floor for cases 13 to 41.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4242	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size defers the treatment of the proposed propositions to the 161st aggregate.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4259	The proposal has been rejected, and we are going to discuss the matter. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4264	In the past, the Storting has voted against the case No. 1–6, and are ready to go to voting on the remaining issues on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4271	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 4 was about to postpone the matter and is already paying for it. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Size Transmits Prop. 100 S and Prop. [[2015-2016]] [[2015-2016]] 101 S back to the government.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to enter into new negotiations with the EU in order to find a solution in Norwegian relating to EU financial supervision which does not imply Norwegian sovereignty to ESA or the EU.’ The Green Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4305	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the resumption of negotiations with the EU on EU financial supervisory authorities with a view to obtaining Norwegian voting rights in matters relating to Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4332	The recommendation of the decision shall be dealt with in accordance with the Basic Law § 115 where a majority of three-quarters is required and at least two-thirds of the members of the Storting must be present. The President will therefore allow voting to take place on roll call. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The other parties have announced support for the suspension. We vote by roll call and start with representative no. 5 for Troms County, Regina Alexandrova. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4357	President! I voted wrong. I voted yes, but I had to vote no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4362	All right. Do you want to do it again? [[Laughter]] It doesn't seem like there's a mood for it. Then the correct votes must be that 136 voted in favour of the vote, while 29 voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4371	During the debate, Mr Slagsvold Vedum put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The size treats Prop. 101 S according to the provisions of the Basic Law § 115, which requires a majority of three-quarters and that at least two-thirds of the members of the Grand Duchy are present in proceedings.» [[2015-2016]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4391	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4481	It is contested by §§ 1–7. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4494	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4507	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e4987	It is first votered over the second paragraph of Section D.13. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5000	Then the rest of D, and A, B, C, E, F, G, H, I, J, K and L, all of the Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5010	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5019	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5040	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a CompetenceFUNN scheme in accordance with the tax FUNN scheme model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5064	Then we finished voting on the matter no. 1-6, and we'll continue with the rest of the stuff on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5090	Terje Aasland wants the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5093	Only a short explanation of the vote as it does not appear in the setting who is behind the setting. The Labour Party has promoted a number of minority proposals, which we believe are either stronger or clearer than the setting, and which it would be natural to vote alternatively over, but since it is not up to it, I would recommend the Workers' Party to vote for the vote collectively when the Workers' Party's proposal might fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5100	Mrs Arnstad has also asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5103	A brief explanation of vote from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: we shall vote in favour of all the proposals made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Subsidiarity is also going to be voting for all Roman numerals in the vote except for VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5108	A total of 99 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-27, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 28, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party 37, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, 29–36, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Greens' proposals No. 38 and 39, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament 40, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 41, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 42-86, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 87-92, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 93-99, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA In the course of the debate, proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is recommended to continue the concession power regime as it stands today.’; The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 93-99, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government in a new agreement and mandate for Enova to ensure support for the establishment and deployment of a network of hydrogen stations in the major cities and corridors between and to ensure the establishment of the first 10 stations in 2017.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the presentation of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, to explain the possibilities and the social economy for using hydrogen on those routes that are not currently electrified, as well as a priority implementation plan for the most recent routes.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that upholstery equipment operating on Norwegian base develops and implements zero and low-emission technology by 2030, and to promote proposals with plans and instruments to do so.’ Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set out targets for the number of new green jobs to be created by 2030 and to make proposals on how to change industrial policy, research policy and industrial policy, the tax system and the instrument to achieve this.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of at least 3 full-scale demonstration installations for CO2 capture and storage in Norway; at least one industrial plant, at least one waste incineration plant and at least one gas power plant.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2017 to propose a model for Renewable AS’ global mandate in which the Fund is initially entrusted with administrative responsibility for 50 billion. SEK of the capital of the State pension fund abroad, with the possibility to invest in line with Renewable AS's mandate also in unlisted shares and infrastructure in green technology outside Norway.» Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to halt any further search for oil and gas on Norwegian base, while gradually reducing the rate of extraction on existing oil and gas fields. The aim is to completely eliminate the petroleum activity during a period of approximately one year. 20 years.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5198	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 87-92, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the 100 kW limit in the plus customer scheme in force from 1 January 2017.’; Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better tax incentives from the government budget for 2017 to improve profitability and stimulate investments related to the maintenance and upgrade of power plants within a revenue neutral framework.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The size opposes the phasing-out of the scheme of green certificates until a new scheme for the production of new renewable energy is in place.’;» Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new renewable energy support scheme to have a binding target of stepping up new renewable production of 10-20 TWh by 2030 in addition to the certificate target for 2021.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the electricity charge by 1 cent per year in the period 2017-2020 and to turn it off to Enova’s commitment to energy efficiency and domestic energy supply.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The Government requests that plant machinery be required to use zero-emission fuel from 1 January 2017 and that low- and zero-emission technology is required as soon as possible.’; The voting boards showed that 101 votes were cast against and 4 votes in favour of the proposals of the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.28.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5238	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5243	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5248	Then the Socialist Left's proposals were not accepted by 102 votes to 3 with 102 votes in favour. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42-86, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on the use of energy on the base and the coherence with the mainland’s power system, with an assessment of the energy needs of the socket and how this will be met in the future, in line with the ambition that we will not exceed 1,5 degree temperature rise.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the Energy Act’s objective paragraph in order to ensure that environmental and climate considerations are the leaders of energy policy.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine which new cables are most relevant and to project them so that investment decisions and expansion can be made quickly if the experience with the new foreign cables of the United Kingdom and Germany is considered to be good.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a method to take account of the knowledge base, the precautionary principle and the ecosystem approach in setting up a national wind energy framework.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target to produce a total of 0,5 TWh from solar roofs on households by 2020 and to entrust Enova with the task of ensuring that the target is achieved.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and propose to the Storting how the Energy Act needs to be amended in order to adapt it to a changed power market with a greater degree of decentralised power generation.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a strategy for solar energy, which facilitates the development of a domestic market for solar energy use, and for Norwegian suppliers and economic operators to position themselves in a global market.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks to set a measurement of 5 TWh produced current and heat generated from the sun.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a dynamic investment aid for solar cells and collectors in commercial buildings, housing units and households, which provides 10-20 years of repayment [[through Enova]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to maintain a GDP of 1.45 billion. each year for three years from 2017 to 2019, in order to enable the company’s maritime wind strategy for the development and expansion of fields on British soil.’» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a list of the 10 projects that will bring the greatest benefits to nature, outdoors and communities with the lowest possible loss of power.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2017 to assess how the electricity charge is for the production of hydrogen for transport purposes and to propose the conversion of charges that reduce disproportionate disadvantages for the production of hydrogen for transport purposes.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate the sampling of hydrogen locomotives by the NSB or CargoNet on one of the non-electrified routes.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further conversion of car charges and fortify the emission target from 85 g CO2/km to 10 g CO2/km as an average for the whole new car fleet by 2020, as well as for a target of at least 9 out of 10 new cars sold in 2020 to be zero-emission cars.’;» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the technical building regulations in order to require the installation of charging stations for electric vehicles for new construction’.» [[TEK]] Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The size requires the government in the proposal for a new national transport plan to add electrification or other zero-emission technology to all current diesel-fuelled railway lines and by 2025 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Public Acquisition Act in order to require all transport services provided to the public and in tenders to the public to be based on sustainable zero-emission fuel or zero-emission technology from 1 January 2017.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose changes to the truck charging regime to make the choice of low- and zero-emission technologies profitable and to make the first proposals for such changes to proposals for the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the tax regime for buses to make the choice of low and zero emission technologies profitable and to make the first proposals for such changes to proposals for the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain, in proposals for the 2017 government budget, how the government follows up the Storting decision of 1 December 2015 on low- and zero-emission technologies for ferries (Decision No. 59 [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose fuel requirements on all Norwegian waters and to propose the imposition of a ban on the use of heavy oil.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government in its 2017 draft government budget to propose the introduction of a one-off charge for boat engines to promote energy efficiency and the use of low- and zero-emission technologies.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to investigate, with a view to opening up, a scheme of a ‘business CO2 fund’, following the model of the NOx fund, where it concludes an agreement with industry to exempt all or part of the CO2 tax in exchange for contractual CO2 reductions in the transport sector.’; Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy on how Norway is to ensure access to and promote product development and production of sustainable biofuels.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the submitted new national transport plan to phase-in phase-in of sustainable zero-emission fuel on all current diesel-fuelled railway lines and by 2020 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of sustainable biofuels and low- and zero-emission technologies in the call/purchase of routes on the short-range network.’;» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan for further stepping up sustainable biofuels by 2030.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the turnover of biofuels, including second generation biofuels from wood and residual waste, to duty-free diesel.’;» Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to submit a stepping-up plan for the reduction of fuel consumption in that part of aviation not covered by the allowances system and to propose a stepping-up plan for the use of sustainable biofuels up to a minimum of 20 pst. by 2030.» Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a turnover directive for the use of sustainable biofuels in the marine fuel.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government in its 2017 draft State Budget to propose to remove the possibility of using free-of-charge diesel for recreational craft.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for sustainable zero-emission fuel and low or zero-emission technology to be required by the Government in the next tender for the Bergen-Churches coastal route.’» Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all supply ships intended to operate in Norwegian waters be required by the Government to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2018.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of development contracts for hydrogen ferries’.» Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all cruise ships operating in Norwegian waters be required by the Government to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2019.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Port Act to promote shore-side electricity solutions in Norwegian ports.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of differentiated port charges in order to promote the use of shore electricity and renewable fuels in shipping.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the ports of Bergen, Ålesund, Trondheim, Bodø, Tromsø, Honningsvåg and Kirkenes have a solution with land flow to Hurtigruten as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a roadmap on how biogas can replace natural gas by 2050 in the next bio-economic strategy. The government is asking for proposals for instruments that ensure that municipalities are stimulated to produce biogas from biological waste and that ensure increased demand for biogas.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the port owners, asks the Government to identify the need for the expansion and use of shore-side electricity in all major Norwegian ports and to make proposals in the national transport plan to ensure that shore-side electricity becomes the main source of energy in all major Norwegian ports by 2030.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to set up research and innovation programmes for carbon negative industrial processes and to come back to Stortinget with proposals for options to establish full scale demonstration facilities and business models for this in Norway in cooperation with industry.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: «The government is asked to establish Renewable AS by spring 2017 with a two-part Norwegian and global mandate to become a major global player in renewable and green technology.» Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2017 asks the Government to propose the recapitalisation of Renewable AS of 20 billion. crowns at take-off.» Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a zero-emission technology programme for the oil and gas sector, thus contributing to zero-emission solutions for the remaining production and use of fossil energy sources. The programme shall be financed by the oil and gas industry through concessional obligations.’;» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government is asked to be given the opportunity to provide guarantees on market conditions for renewable investment in developing countries by the government.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5512	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a research programme and to strengthen the overall research effort on battery technology and hydrogen technology as from proposals for the 2017 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5526	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that, in the event of a concession procedure for the purpose of power development in protected watercourses, the case is brought before the concessional proceedings and is assessed when all other flood mitigation measures have been assessed as insufficient and the protection values will not be significantly affected.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5540	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–36, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a comprehensive overall plan for wind, water and network investment in one context.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government in its mission letter to Enova to be open to support economic operators who will produce electricity from renewable energy for their own consumption and who are not necessarily connected to the network.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the work of the Green Tax Commission and to investigate the use of flexible user charges that vary with the geographical location and emission intensity of the fuel, and to return appropriately to the Stortinge on how this can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the reconversion of the charging system in favour of zero and low-emission cars so that cars with greenhouse gas emissions are phased out over time.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a standard for what is to be considered as low-emission technology.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to implement a comprehensive planning and development of offshore electricity networks and to ask for a case to be brought before the Storting.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the guarantee framework of the GIEK’s Unland scheme, in order to facilitate the export of Norwegian renewable competence.’ [[Export Credit Guarantee Institute]] Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen INTPOW’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5592	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that LNG be made more available as a fuel for shipping.’ [[Liquefied natural gas]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5607	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38 and 39, from the Labour Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain and strengthen the foreign investment to Statkraft through a predictable and stable dividend policy over time.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the development and deployment of low and zero emission technologies for remaining sections of diesel on the railway.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5630	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an aid scheme for zero-emission trucks and zero-emission buses, where appropriate, to cover all or part of the additional costs incurred by carriers by choosing zero-emission technologies and to return appropriately to the Storting with regard to how this can be implemented.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5644	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 and 4–27, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case for a uniform tariff model in order to achieve an equivalent network tariff in the regional network and the central network for large consumers with a high service life. [[SFHB]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a separate soaking system for network rental.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget during the autumn of 2016 with a sea wind strategy.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking to contribute to the realisation of at least a full-scale demonstration park for liquid sea winds in Norway by 2020.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The budget for 2017 requires the Government to present a strategy for the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and to provide funds for this purpose in the budget for 2017.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how Norway can become a significant player in offshore wind power. The investigation is supposed to respond to the possibilities of building a domestic market to ensure industrial development in this sector. The establishment of a North Sea network and interaction with the petroleum sector are also assumed to be included.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking, with reference to the current solar system under Enova, for various measures to stimulate increased solar production in Norway and to submit a plan for this in the spring of 2017.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of today’s district heating concession scheme under the Energy Act.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «In spring 2017, the government asks the Government to promote a case for the Stortinget with a proposal for a new scheme to support new renewable energy to replace the current scheme with green certificates. The scheme shall contribute to technology development, power generation and market opportunities for Norwegian technology.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set a target of 10 TWh of reduced energy use in existing buildings compared to the current level and to make a plan by spring 2017 on how this can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase of 100 billion in the fund for climate technologies, renewable energy and energy conversion. crowns in 2017, and further strengthen this until 2020 as Enova is assigned new tasks.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for fossil energy use from passenger and van cars to be phased out gradually. The charging system is designed to provide approximately 100 pst. new car sales in 2025 are based on zero-emission technologies. A control station shall be introduced in 2020.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a gradual increase in current fossil fuel and pollutant fuel taxes and to continue to reward zero- and low-emission solutions.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a complementary strategy for increasing the use of hydrogen in the transport and industrial sectors, in which both analyses, targets and instruments are investigated. The strategy is presented as a matter of its own to the Stortinget during 2016.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a support scheme for the development of hydrogen-based transport infrastructure so that hydrogen-based vehicles can be integrated into the Norwegian market.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase support through Enova for the development of electric car charging stations and to ensure that these are dimensioned in order to meet technological developments taking place. This will involve an extension ensuring sufficient power capacity at the charging station itself and in the electricity system.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asking the government to set up a public loading point for the 10th electric car in the 10 largest urban areas, by other 20 electric cars in the country, and a quick charging point for the 100th electric car.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for a discount on the power charge for high-speed chargers of 5000 kWh per month in the context of the 2017 State budget.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish cooperation between the State and the municipality for the development of shore-side electricity infrastructure at all relevant ports.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asking for all ferry routes, where possible and possible, to be electrified by 2030. Furthermore, low-emission technologies must be considered and used. Norway’s ability to develop the maritime clusters to be world leaders in low- and zero-emission technologies in shipping needs to be emphasised.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a major research and technology programme to develop zero and low-carbon solutions in the maritime sector.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish shore-side electricity for all major ports.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of a smart cities programme in Norway through the use of information systems and communication technologies to provide better services to citizens, improve energy efficiency, public transport and waste systems, and contribute to greener urban planning.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of the EEA Agreement space to ensure competitive framework conditions for new large investments in the climate-friendly industry in Norway, including guarantee schemes within the framework of the State aid legislation of the EEA Agreement.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stronger mechanisms for piloting/testing new technologies, including demonstration facilities, including operational participation.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish instruments, inter alia through Enova, for the transfer of low-carbon technologies from the oil industry to other industries and to end-users of oil and gas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5869	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on VII. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens' Greens' Party have announced subsidiary support for the Committee's decision. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5882	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position on XVII. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the Committee's suspension. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5895	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI and XVIII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5923	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament 3, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 8, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens The rapporteur pointed out in the debate that the Committee's position on this subject was promoted by a unanimous committee. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to set a greenhouse gas emission target for Norway of a maximum of 20 million tonnes in 2030.’ The voting boards showed that 102 votes were cast against and 3 votes in favour of the proposal by the Greens/Greens/EFA. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.34.52]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5958	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5963	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5968	The Green Party's proposal was then rejected by 104 votes to one. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present in the annual budgets a climate budget showing how the government intends to achieve the climate targets for 2020, 2030 and until 2050 and how the budget affects Norway’s climate emissions. This is adapted and is part of the follow-up to a Norwegian Climate Act when it enters into force.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to include in the drafting of a new climate law provisions which oblige the government to annually make mandatory emission paths visible to the various areas of the non-quota sector and the type of action that will be necessary and to be implemented to achieve those objectives.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e5991	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case based on the ‘Agriculture and Climate Change’ report, where the government proposes targets and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norwegian agriculture, including measures to increase the production of feed, increased grazing, forestry, increased carbon uptake in forests, increased exploitation of GROT and increased voluntary forest protection.’ [[highest waste]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6005	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for targets and measures to reduce climate change emissions from agriculture in dialogue with the agricultural industry, including measures to increase sustainable feed production, increased grazing, sustainable forestry, increased new planting, increased carbon uptake in forests, increased exploitation of GROT and increased voluntary forest protection. [[highest waste]] Stop extractions and other interventions in peat bogs must be considered.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6019	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Government asks governments: 1. Increase climate research in Norway significantly, inter alia by involving a greater share of industry-related research where the objective is low- and zero-emission technologies. Today, research efforts aimed at low-emission development add up to 1.2 billion. krones. 2nd@item: inlistbox Contribute globally to a rise in climate research.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6042	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a major report on the circular economy, which examines, inter alia, the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Conversion to the ‘Green economy’ and increased resource efficiency contributing to reduced climate emissions and improved environment, while bringing benefits to the economy and society. 2nd@item: inlistbox Measures that contribute to the maintenance of resources in the economy, even after a product is no longer used for its original purpose. 3rd@item: inlistbox Set requirements for product design and material use, repair and increased capacity utilisation. 4th@item: inlistbox Increase the objective of material recycling and reuse that will increase resource efficiency and reduce environmental pressures, as well as promote economic growth and employment. 5th@item: inlistbox Increased use of industrial by-products that can be used for new raw materials. 6th@item: inlistbox Increased use of raw materials resulting from the recovery of waste. 7th@item: inlistbox Strengthening opportunities for the Norwegian recycling industry and technology suppliers in the event of increased recycling of materials. Eight. Increased use of biogas from manure. 9th@item: inlistbox Measures to reduce food waste. 10th@item: inlistbox Increase the capacity of individual products to facilitate more leasing and lending. 11th@item: inlistbox Determine the economic and environmental benefits associated with improved resource use and for increased product efficiency in terms of saved material costs and a potential for new markets and products. 12th@item: inlistbox Evaluate possible regulation, market-based instruments, research and innovation, information exchange, voluntary schemes and other incentives that can help create the right framework conditions for a circular economy.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a link between the Climate Act and the governance mechanisms in order to achieve emission reductions set out in the law’s emission targets. The objectives must be guiding and obligating, and shall identify emission levels for each sector.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6158	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2-9, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 10 to 15, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 16-18, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to have action plans against violence in close relations and to immediately propose any necessary legal remedies to achieve this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6187	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to make the Child Protection Act a law on rights so that the right to protection of children is the fundamental principle of the law.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6203	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the 2017 state budget to propose schemes that will improve the living environment of children through an active social housing policy.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6219	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for various support schemes through the Husbank for the establishment of a sufficient number of transitional dwellings for post-crisis stays’.» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6235	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. In the course of the debate, the proposal was amended to read as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2017 State Budget, to reform the care and care systems for parents with sick and disabled children as a follow-up to the appointment of the Kaasa Committee.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6253	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities are offered competence enhancement in the area of violence in close relations’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6269	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals that guarantee self-employed persons as good rights in the context of maternity as employees.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6285	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 9 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to further develop child rights as a universal scheme, without taxation and need testing.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with a view to ensuring a regime of family vicars in all municipalities of families with special and acute care challenges.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6308	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to ensure an independent right of withdrawal for parental leave and for the father’s allowance.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6324	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the current cash support scheme, which ensures real value.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6341	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Six and eight from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a view to ensuring increased capacity and quality of family protection, and to ensuring the proximity of services by stopping the reduction in the number of offices, and to considering the creation of new ones.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Swedish Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with the issue of increased midwifery services in Norwegian municipalities, in order to ensure the proper follow-up of mother and child in pregnancy and during childbirth.’ The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6364	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with a view to further developing the current single-use benefit scheme for women who have not acquired the right to parental leave.’ The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6380	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with measures to ensure good organisation and social welfare arrangements for students who have children.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6396	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to reintroduce 14 weeks’ spring quota.’ The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6412	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the development of family policies to use universal and broad population-oriented measures to ensure fair distribution and safe frameworks and freedom of choice.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6428	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the legalisation of preventive work in the family protection service.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6474	Case No. 13 to 34 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative decisions 80 to 101. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6483	Decision 102 concerns the decision of the Grand Duchy on the law amending the Foreign Affairs Act, etc. During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Ingerd Schou on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under A, the following provisions are to be amended as follows: point III of Romans is replaced by the following: 65 on Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: Section 16 is replaced by the following: In the case of applicants who are stateless, the conditions set out in points (b), (e) and (h) of the first paragraph of Section 7 do not apply. [[Citizens Act]] Periods of residence or more than one application period are included in the three-year period. Applicants who have chosen to be stateless by their own actions or omission or who can easily become nationals of another country are not covered by this paragraph. the following point IV is added: 1. The law applies from the time the King rules. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox The King may lay down transitional rules.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6528	Legislative Decision 102, together with the adopted note, is then taken up to the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6535	Case No. 36 to 41 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 103 to 108. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-13.ana.ud1289e6549	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
