ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e30	The representative Annette Trettebergstuen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Veronica Pedersen Åsheim, will now take its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e49	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e78	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 40 minutes – excluding lines and 3 minutes. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 80 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Advance Party 40 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Left 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged as follows: six replies will be received after submissions by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and four replies from the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders and other members of the government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e91	There has been a demanding and exceptional budgetary procedure. At last, it was the will to find a solution that struck through. I am pleased that the government parties and the cooperation parties on Saturday reached an agreement on the state budget. It has a self-esteem and provides stability in our political system. This should not be underestimated — it is just to look at the events of the past 24 hours in other countries. I therefore need to thank those who have contributed: of course colleagues in the government parties and in the Left, President and Administration of the Storting, our own committee secretariat and departments. But I would also like to thank the opposition, who has shown impatience both inside and outside the hall, but never in such a way that one has doubts that one, in any case, would have a solution for the country. Why did these negotiations become so demanding? There is no doubt that any government that comes to Stortinget with ultimate demands chooses a challenging procedure. When a minority government does so, it is, in addition, a parliamentary very little wise conduct. In particular, it becomes difficult when the ultimatum is about a subject, in this case the climate issue, where four parties have agreed in advance that here we are now going to get results together – not each of us, but together. The responsibility for the difficult budgetary situation must therefore be borne by the government. When the budget was presented on 6 October, I said that from the Christian People's Party we do not put absolutes or ultimatums. The Christian People's Party's goal has always been to create a budget that significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions. After a lot of demanding work, we have got that done. For the non-socialist cooperation we have probably had more uplifting days than the last, but it is an important pauli word that says the following – and I quote from an unknown book: “But one thing I do: I forget what’s behind and stretch out after what’s ahead.” Some experiences we'll probably take with us on the road anyway. The climate and environment aspects of the budget are offensive: the change in the one-off charge, which premises the environmentally friendly cars, better depreciation rates for zero-emission cars, increased wreckage, strong rail and public transport investment, priority for classical nature protection, the creation of a CO 2 business fund and not least a significantly strengthened climate law. The budget is generally adapted to a fragile economic upturn in the country. The availability is still high, especially in some counties, while other counties experience a decline. It is therefore appropriate to continue with specific activity grants to municipalities where unemployment is high, in the south and west. We are strengthening innovation in the agreement, the apprenticeship grant is increasing again, and the tax settlement is followed up with reduced corporate tax and a relief in the wealth tax on working capital. All of this will help ensure Norwegian jobs and business. For the Christian People's Party, the family is not a production unit. The family is a foundation of society that cannot be replaced. Our family policy is based on trust in parents and their choices for themselves and theirs. We therefore believe that freedom of choice is important and necessary. We strengthen the cash support, and we increase the staffing of kindergartens. In the elite, the cash support may not win, but the population sees the value of it. About 60 pst. withdraws cash support in parts of the period for which it applies, so it is – and I think I have to remind you – when the child is between one and two years old. Besides, now almost a quarter of those taking out the support, men. One-off aid is increased by 25 pst., a historic boost. Early school effort has been a core issue for the Christian People's Party this period. Through each budget, we have provided more teachers from 1 to 4. class. The last race we're taking now, and with that we've on average made sure that there can be two teachers in each class in these steps. It gives more time to each and every child and more adapted teaching. The big drop-out we have in high school, hopefully we'll see a decline in a few years. The Church is facing a new situation from 1 January 2017. With the agreement, we want to ensure good operation when the Church is about to write a new chapter in its history. We also meet the aid target of 1 pst. It's an important victory on behalf of the world's poor. A good district policy has always characterized the Christian People's Party. By comparison, districts are strengthened. New investments in the bioeconomy, resources for industrial development and increased power in broadband development are some examples of this. In the case of the social profile, the minimum pension for single-age pensioners increases by NOK 4000 next year. This is one of the groups in society that have the least to walk with and the weakest living conditions. In two years we've increased their pension by $8,000. Finally, I would particularly like to highlight an area which has been heavily at the heart of the Christian People's Party in these budgetary negotiations: the safety of children. We have known that too many children are being subjected to the most serious abuses. Yes, in one of the last cases, the ‘Dark Room’ case, we have seen adults even planning to assault their own children who have not even been born. Dark figures are large, too large, and we have obligations to strengthen the safety and legal security of children. I am pleased with the unanimity we obtained in Stortinget when the Christian People's Party's proposal for an action plan on child safety was discussed earlier this year. Now we are following this up in the budgetary agreement, with many and very important measures. The state's children's home is getting more money, there's going to be more prosecution lawyers, investigators and interrogators related to violence against children. Kripos are strengthened, as are Alternatives to Violence, Stine Sofie Center, Child Protection and Family Protection. We now get earmarked money for the school health services and health centres, and we also get a treatment offer for young offenders. We're burning to get something done for the most vulnerable children, and we've been inspired by a Chilean Nobel Prize winner in literature, Gabriela Mistral. She wrote the following a very, very many years ago, but unfortunately it's too topical today too: To the child we can't say, tomorrow. The name of the child is: Today. I address our proposal in the vote and the distributed verbal proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I also recommend that the Group of the Christian People's Party vote subsidiaryly for the agreement that will be promoted later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e137	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e144	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the representative of the Syversen for having had an important impact, also in areas that are important for the Workers' Party. I realized from the representative of Syversen's posts, and in particular from the general media picture in the last few days, that these have been demanding rounds. We also see that the Workers' Party's alternative budget has been a source of inspiration on a number of points – teacher density, child poverty and violence in close relationships – and that is good. Then we can say that a poor budget has become a little less poor on some points. It hides a bit of each on the containment side of the settlement entered into. When it is cut into important welfare services for people, you should be shaved enough to stand for it. Behind the extraordinary title ‘Effectiveisation reform, increase by 0.3%’, there is a cut of more than 400 million. to hospitals. The Prime Minister didn't take any responsibility for it this morning in Political Quarter, so I have to ask: Was it the Christian People's Party that wanted to have a hospital code? And the representative Syversen agrees with me that a cut of 427 million. kr is so large that it's actually going to go beyond the patient treatment at the country's hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e151	Yes, it is permissible to be inspired by each other's budgets, but since the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party was presented before the Workers' Party's alternative budget, I should not be surprised if we too have had a slightly inspiring effect on what the Workers' Party chose to present. And then we'll be glad that much of this has come into common with the areas the representative mentioned, in the agreement that is now being presented. In terms of efficiency and how it turns out, it is interesting that in many debates in this Chamber, the opposition – the constructive part of it – is concerned with the need for red tape. Well, this is a job to give a message to all the agencies: cut the bureaucracy, but make sure that what goes to – in this case – patients stays standing. I hope so, and I think that will be the result, and nothing cut in the offer of the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e158	Let me first thank you for a good cooperation during the negotiations. I'll get closer to that. Let me also thank you for the interesting quote from the apostle Paul, a man who always delivered what we in good Norwegian can call pure words for the money. I would like to ask the representative of the Seven, with reference to that quote, in terms of reaching out to what lies ahead and putting the disagreements behind. What does he see as the most important area of good non-socialist cooperation we've had for almost four years, when we're going to put disagreement behind and look forward to? What is his priority area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e167	When I talked about reaching for what was ahead, I might have been a little short thinking and thinking that we have a voting later today. But I can extend it a little bit longer too and say that I am very pleased with how the cooperation has worked in key areas that matter to our economy and to our well-being in the future, the framework conditions for business, our school effort from the start to research and throughout the course. There is a consensus on family policy and freedom of choice, a consensus that volunteering has its own value and should be encouraged, also because it is an important pillar of our society. I have a lot to go after, and then we'll see which way it's going to go to the seventh and last.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e172	With the Christian People's Party at the rudder, one of Audi's most brutal sports cars has become 220,000 kr cheaper, i.e. the Christian People's Party has sponsored car purchases because initially well-intermediate people with more than what a minimum pensioner has to live for – money for "weighing" for coffers rather than welfare. But if you're going to be so unhappy to end up in a car accident, whether you're driving my old Saab or one of the sports cars you can afford now with the Christian People's Party, it's not much to pick up from the community that the Christian People's Party belongs to. After weeks of chaos and squabbling among the civilians, you still end up sending huge bills to traffic damage, for example. cutting physical therapy aid for those who have amputated or transplanted. I wonder if the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the switch from well-being to "welding" and that vulnerable groups continue to pay the tax relief party for the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e179	I allow myself to say that the line might not have been completely objective. With regard to the one-off fee, I would like us to have the goal that is important is to bring down the emissions, instead of pointing out whether that car belongs to that class or class of society. If you look at this equation, it has a good social profile. I expect it to be the diagnostic list that the representative Bergstø refers to. In our alternative budget, we wanted to stand on what has been going on. I hope and believe that with that conversion, the groups that the representative Bergstø is engaged in will be taken care of, and I am convinced that it will be further worked on in the trade committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e186	I understand that the representative Syversen and the representative Fleet need to find comfort in the Bible – I can do that sometimes too. The speech that we heard instead sounded more like an accordion than a song of praise. There was a sad base tone in the post. I've heard both rekviem and praise, here it was the rekviem that used to sound – it was moll. I heard the representative Syversen lifting the district bet, and it is quite right that the Christian People's Party has reversed some of the cut of the Right and Advance Party, but still it is less to district next year than it was last year, and much less than it was in 2013. We've seen a centralization of hospitals, we see the centralization of the police, of tax offices, of Nav and of municipalities. It's a massive centralization we see around our country. Although it is directed at some of the worst outcomes, is the representative satisfied with the main direction of centralisation, as we see in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e194	I understand that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, has a side life as a music reviewer. [[Laughter]] The problem with some people who have to report either plays or music is that they come with pre-conceived attitudes and have written the script in advance. So I really just want to encourage the representative of Battle Violence Vedum to look at the deal and come back on a later occasion. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e199	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e204	So we finally got a budget unit. That's good. An uplifting government crisis half a year before a elections is not something that Norway has earned, and it is important that the parties that manage a majority on the Stortinget actually take responsibility for providing the country with a budget. But the harvest has shown a government that has great problems with the relationship with its cooperation parties. In particular, it has been a witness to a minority government that produces the ultimatum of the Storting before the budget is presented, and in clear terms, the Stortinge says that parts of the budget are not under consideration. It is significant that words such as ‘crisis’, ‘ultimatum’ and ‘cabinet issues’ have swirled in the air almost all the way to today’s point. But now finally the municipalities of the country know what kind of budgets they have to deal with next year. Business finally got to know what kind of tax regime they're going to deal with three weeks ahead of time, and, not least, we're getting the opportunity to talk about politics, after weeks and months of noise-only noise. I leave to others to pass judgment on civil cooperation. In this last financial debate during the period, the budgets over which it is to be judged are common. Four years of right-wing party government have taken Norway towards increasing unemployment, greater differences between people, irresponsible use of oil money and higher greenhouse gas emissions. Over 20 B.C.E. kr in tax cuts have been financed through unsocial welfare funding for vulnerable groups and withdrawals from the economy of future generations. The money is distributed so that most people get a five in tax cuts a day, and the country's wealthiest gets several hundred thousand dollars a year. For ordinary people, these very modest tax cuts are quickly eaten up by increased fees, increased pediatric prices or increased probabilities. If politics is to be given priority — and some would argue that this is the case — then the government of Solberg will probably go into the history books as the weakest ever. The use of Community oil revenues has been record high from day one and throughout the government period – before the fall in oil prices, before the growth of unemployment, before the influx of refugees – and is also continued in the draft budget for 2017. Erna Solberg chose to make Norway less oil dependent and better priorities, but has spent almost 100 billion dollars. kr more of the oil money now in this fourth year. It eats of future room for action in fiscal policy. The government's inability to prioritise is repeatedly resolved by going to the pension fund. It is an expression of short-termity and a lack of willingness to take responsibility for future generations. With the Right-Handed Government, there would be more profitable private jobs contributing to the State budget, no more living from the State budget. Especially in this area, the distance between words and action is obvious. Employment is almost not created in the private sector. Lower oil prices are, of course, a major part of the cause, but the government has met with increasing unemployment with inaction, and they have consistently been in deficit, with too weak measures. In summary, the Right Party and the Advance Party opted to cut tax and tax levels and make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. The loss of income would be financed by cutting red tape, more private jobs and so-called dynamic effects of tax cuts. The only thing the government has to point to after four budgets is that they have cut taxes and collected money from the oil fund to finance it. In four years, the government has effectively reduced the scope of action of future governments to meet future challenges. The budgetary agreement does not make this situation any better. I want to give the Christian People's Party and the Left recognition for correcting some shortcomings in the budget. Several of the new initiatives are recognised from the Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party, such as stronger climate action, early schooling, more to rail, more to traineeships and support for apprenticeships. But this completely chronic lack of prioritisation means that we get large, permanent expenditure increases that are well funded by one-off incomes, such as increased dividends, a rather solid cut in the miscellaneous item and the deferral of expenditure that will in any case come later. Especially in the transport budget, we see it. It's not to rust the country for the future. Then it is alarming that behind the post efficiencies reform – increase by 0.3 pst. – it hides a cut of nearly half a billion dollars to the hospitals. It's an honest thing to think that it's the hospitals that are going to finance large parts of this deal, but it's on the limit of dishonesty not to say it out loud. This is not red tape. It's going to go beyond the patient treatment at the country's hospital, and it comes to the top of that Right has systematically granted several billion dollars less than its entirely concrete election vows to the hospitals in 2013. There was also no room, even with the money spent here, to cut the gap between resource-intensive users in municipalities or to secure the 600 teaching positions that are now disappearing from high school with poor results. Our main criticism from the time the budget was presented in the autumn is firm: for weak efforts to combat unemployment and very tight frameworks for municipalities, which will solve large tasks for children and the elderly. And at the bottom is a distribution profile that increases the differences in Norway, a continuation of tax cuts to those who have the most – contrary to what we need. We want a different direction for the country. In our draft budget, we outline three main challenges that we face: increasing inequality, work in an economy that is entering a new phase, and greenhouse gas emissions, which need to be drastically reduced. Our way of life and social organisation are not sustainable in the long term. It is gratifying, I think, to see that the budgetary agreement is well on the way, following the Labour Party's allocations to the collective sector and to the railway sector, and that it is a total increase which now has a clear ambition to achieve a major technology shift in the transport sector, among other things. through a CO 2 fund. That's what's needed. But that's not enough. If we are to be able to fulfil our own obligations under the Paris Agreement, we do not have time to wait for an agreement on climate change with the EU. With our alternative budget, we have presented a clear plan for how we think the objective should be achieved. The largest economic divide in Norway is currently running between those inside and those outside the labour market. Therefore, it is so worrying that the proportion of the population employed is the lowest in 20 years. The government's own estimates show that the unemployment rate is falling at an excessively high level. Then it is incomprehensible that the targeted effort against unemployment in the South-West is being reduced. In our alternative budget, we propose close to 1 billion. kr extra directly to these areas to get people in fast activity. Conversion doesn't happen in the Nav queue, it happens when people get something to do. Then the use of oil money needs to be adapted so that it serves us both in the short and long term. In a recession there is, of course, room to increase money consumption somewhat to keep the level of activity up, but the money must be used correctly and precisely. We want an economic policy that prioritises vigorous action aimed at vulnerable areas, while at the same time controlling the overall use of money. Labour and capital used in petroleum-related activities must be used in other industries. Therefore, it is essential that fiscal policy does not contribute to undermining the competitiveness of continental industries. Low interest rates and low interest rates are most important. Financial policy must not waste it. Another dividing line that leads to increased inequality goes between those who have safe, entire jobs and those who have poorly paid and uncertain part-time positions. Just as job security is a protection against inequality, job security is the same. If we succeed in creating more and safer jobs, it will be a very important contribution to keeping the differences small and the inequality small. Small economic differences are a competitive advantage for us. In order to avoid increasing inequalities, it is necessary to invest heavily in building skills in the labour market, good welfare arrangements and inclusive joint arenas. In addition, fiscal policy must contribute to fairer distribution to a greater extent than at present. A new majority is needed, which can take the right direction in these crucial areas. In the end, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the light of, among other things, The Labour Party has submitted an adjusted proposal for a framework replacing our proposal, No. 1, in the setting. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e241	The representative Marianne Marthinsen then mentioned the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e248	I record that the representative Marthinsen chooses to spend a lot of his speaking time criticising the government, instead of telling about the Labour Party's own policy. We are in a transition phase, and for the right it is important to pursue an expansionary counter-cyclical policy for work and activity at this stage, where the oil price has fallen so much. It also involves the use of oil money, and we believe that the government has been at a balanced and correct level in relation to the circumstances that require us. The working party uses considerable energy to accuse the government of spending too much oil money, although some might claim that the difference from their own arrangement is minimal. Nevertheless, it is close to believing that when estimates related to asylum influx to Norway were downgraded by 1.6 billion. kr, the Workers' Party would gladly use this opportunity to downgrade the use of oil money in its own arrangement. This has not happened, and then we must be able to conclude that the Workers' Party's criticism is really just empty rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e257	Now the balance was critical and boasting of its own alternative budget like that. 50-50, so Siri Meling can take it easy. The working party is going to spend a lot of time fronting its alternative budget in the time to come. We are proud of the arrangement and believe that it would take the country in a better direction. And then to the oil money business. An expansionary counter-cyclical policy will be characterised by temporary cost increases to keep the wheels running. That's not what the Right has been doing over this magnification period. It is quite premature to look at how the Right has left control of the use of oil money to the Progress Party, which has gone to the choice that they want to spend money on a completely different scale from what the responsible parties in the Stortinget see. We see permanent expenditure increases that are now largely financed by short-term revenues, and they are not targeted at those areas that actually need support. There are expert committees from expert committees that determine that money use is too high, and I wonder where it has become of the Right that guaranteed a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e264	Property taxes only pay the Norwegians. If a foreigner owns a business in Norway, he does not pay taxes on wealth for his values, while Norwegians who are co-owners in the same enterprise have to pay. This is unfair, it is distorting competition, and unlike corporate taxes, which are paid only when you go with profits, property taxes must be paid whether you go with a deficit or with a profit. At these times, many business owners, especially in the West, do not go around wondering what to use the profit for, but how to reduce the deficit and keep their employees. The representative, Marthinsen, believes that there will be more employees because in such a situation we will allow Norwegian company owners to receive an increased tax of about 4 billion. kr, for the state – crown for crown – to set 4 billion. in order to finance more purchases of shares and more properties abroad with the money of these owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e271	I note with interest that the representative Steffensen believes it is ‘unfair’ that wealth should contribute over the tax bill. I do not mean that, and that does not mean the Workers' Party. The tax on wealth is an important tool for our tax system to work beneficially all the way, including at the top. If we remove the property tax, we get a system that opens up to zero taxpayers again, and we don't want that. And then the government has had a hard time documenting any effect of these tax cuts. The total tax and tax level has been cut by over 20 billion. kr, and the property tax is an essential part of it. And that doesn't work, it doesn't lead to employment growth, and we have no guarantee that the wealth tax laws actually lock into businesses. Through the tax settlement, we are part of a scheme that allows the company to pay the property tax at a loss. We think that is a sensible arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e278	The representative Marthinsen was in the oil money business, and it has been repeated criticism of the level of it from the Workers' Party. I have to say that when I saw the alternative from the Workers' Party, where you take it down by 4 billion. NOK, and when we know that the use of oil money is approx. 225 B.C.E. kr, I thought: You world, there was strong criticism for little difference. My question is: if the Labour Party is in charge of the Ministry of Finance, will the number of oil billions into the budget be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e285	We have to get the phase-in of oil money down to a proper level, a level that can actually carry into the future. The rule of action is a rule for phased oil money into the economy, but at a pace and in a way that Norwegian economy can bear, and which makes the oil fund in principle stand there forever. With the phase-in rate that this government has practiced, the fund will be empty in 2043. It's quite obvious that the phase-in rate has to go down. We have had several expert committees that have commented on the use of money. The Thøgersen Committee is one of them. It was recommended to be on a phase-in of between 7 and 8 billion. kr per year. For 2017, the government has proposed 15. We're proposing to bring it down to 11. It's a significant step in the right direction, down to the level recommended by the Thygersen Committee. And it's quite unique – I think almost in the history of the world – that at any budgetary crossroads, all opposition parties have recommended spending less money than sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e292	Like the representative Syversen, I want to talk about what will happen when the Labour Party is back in the government offices, and will then grab hold of the agricultural field, because there is a field where there has been a great deal of tension between the fine words and the beautiful promises and the political realities. My question is: is there a real will in the Labour Party to prioritize Norwegian food production in the form of e.g. increasing investment funds; a clearer income measure; a less eager to protect; and to say a clear no to the bill that the majority of the budget agreement has set in motion a process to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e313	I think it's nice to talk about what's going to happen the day the Workers' Party is back in the government offices. The last few years have shown, I believe, that the Workers' Party has given priority to agriculture and food production. We have a clear objective that we have adopted, which is defined, that we want to increase the wage growth in agriculture, and that is a clear objective on our part. We have also followed that up through our draft budgets, and not least in the attitude to this government's first agricultural settlement, in 2014, which we actually voted against. It's pretty rare diet. So we think it's right to bet on both small and large uses, and not like the government, which has gone for a favor of the big ones. And then there'll certainly be many small and big things that we'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e325	First of all, let me make the most of it, namely to raise the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party on changed budgetary frameworks, a proposal that also shows the budgetary unity between the parties to the Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left. The details of this are communicated to Stortinget in a reasonable time before the debate, as promised. [[Laughter]] Let me thank the cooperation parties – the Christian People's Party and the Left – for reaching an agreement also in the last budget of the period. It turned out that the will for cooperation was stronger than the contradictions that are natural between four parties with different approaches. Let me also thank the opposition for showing a sense of superiority in waiting for a settlement. I think it's wrong, what the representative Marthinsen says, that Norwegian business has been worried about not knowing what tax regime they should have for next year. I think they are very pleased that it was not the Labour Party's tax regime that was to be imposed on Norwegian business, by 10,5 billion. kr in increased taxes. We live at a time when usual situations change rapidly, both at home and outside, and Norway is in a difficult situation after the fall in the oil price and lower activity in the petroleum industry. That's what has been the dynamo of growth in the Norwegian economy for many years. People are anxious about their jobs and what changes and changes can mean for individuals now and in the future. That is why I am pleased that the budgetary unity strengthens the government's budget with a focus on more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. There's something people are asking for in a troubled time. Petroleum industry will continue to mean much in the foreseeable future, but the need for conversion that was known – or at least should be known – would come in Norwegian business, has come faster than expected, and it has come to our guard. It has been a halve of the oil price since we took over in the autumn of 2013. It was a shock into the Norwegian economy. Then there are points of light in the last few months: unemployment doesn't seem to increase much more. In many counties and regions, business and jobs benefit from increased exports, improved currency situation and thus improved competitiveness. There has been moderate wage settlement, and an expansionary fiscal policy that supports monetary policy has also contributed positively. But the improvement is fragile. Targeted action on sectors, regions and vulnerable groups in the labour market is still required. That is why there was also a package of measures in the current budget for the benefit of the affected areas in particular. The central task of the 2017 budget, as in the previous two years, is to contribute to this long-term transition. This means action that creates more jobs. The reduced activity of the petroleum industry must be replaced by other activities which may provide a basis for employment and new growth. More people work is the basis for more people being able to create a safe financial life for themselves and their families. The pillar of the welfare society we have built up is the employment share of the population. It has been falling after the financial crisis, even in the downwind of the good years after the financial crisis, we have not been able to increase it. The measures to create new growth, change and increase competitiveness are agreed among the cooperation parties. Substantial progress is made over three essential areas, which are also reinforced by the consensus. There is increased commitment to transport and infrastructure, not least historically high efforts on collective and rail, not only at the level of funding, which has been historically high in recent years, but also through reforms in the organisation of infrastructure construction, which means that more money is recovered. The future competitiveness depends on strengthening the knowledge and competence of future generations. I don't think we can be cheaper than our international competitors, it provides our high cost level. Then we have to work smarter, have more knowledge and develop better technologies and better solutions than others. At that time, early school work, the training of teachers and the commitment to research, not least in cooperation with industry, are central. That is also the case in this budget. Improved framework conditions for business at central level also work. The tax level is further lowered both for companies and for private Norwegian ownership. In a transition period when we need new jobs, some people have to invest. Norwegian owners should enjoy in their own country the same competitive conditions as foreign owners. They don't have it today. We see that the policy is working. Growth is on the rise, and there is increasing optimism in parts of business and in households. There is reason to continue the policies that we have pursued and that seem to work according to purpose. Then it also hears that, in challenging economic times, we are able to strengthen our health efforts, with shorter queues and less waiting time. We have increased efforts in the field of drugs and psychiatry and for poor children, and the budgetary unit supports this too. Climate and environmental issues have been central to this budget. The budgetary authority also supports and reinforces the solutions in this area. The total amount of the budget to be adopted has an annual effect of SEK 5.3 billion. kr through green tax change, climate and environmental efforts. Our policy will reduce emissions by nearly 700000 tonnes in 2017. The estimated cut-offs, with the current policy, will be 11 million tonnes in 2030 and more, as a result of a number of long-term proposals in the budgetary unit that will produce long-term effects. I mention the CO 2 fund for business, biofuel escalation and not least a massive investment in rail, collective, reward and green tax change. Budgetary priorities and consensus have also been achieved through a balanced and well-adapted use of oil money. 3 pst. is good within the rule of action. Financial policy has been expansive, yes, but it has been necessary. Most economists and economic environments, with the exception of those in the Workers' Party, believe that it is well adapted to the situation we have been in, and – I stress – that the oil money is actually still in. They shall be used more when times are running counter. However, they should also be used in the right areas: transport, knowledge, school and education, growth-promoting tax incentives, as originally provided by a State Council of the Workers' Party. This we have followed up much better than the government that even introduced the rule of action. Let me also say a little about the generation responsibility for the use of oil money. Generation responsibility is not just about saving money in foreign shares, handcuffs and townyards. It also means using the returns to invest at home when times go against us, to create new jobs for the generations that come after us. I don't think walking around around the piggy does help to be reticent – the lamb of action – around the piggy. It's not going to help the generations that come after us. They're best helped by us investing the values we have in new jobs, and especially when times go against us in the way that we've now experienced. Disparity in society is an ever-increasing theme for the Workers' Party and others who criticise the Right to contribute to increasing inequality through fiscal policies. But the most important thing we can do to combat inequality in Norwegian society is to create more jobs for the generations that come after us. Then the oil fund and its values are one of the instruments, but also the acquisition of people's knowledge that enables us to use the funds to invest in what will provide value creation and well-being in the years to come. I think this is such a central theme that the discussion of 4 billion. kr in the budget for this year – last year there was nothing from the Workers' Party, as the juxtaposition towards a lower use of oil money is far too narrow. Then you have to look at what we're going to create, what jobs we're going to create. That's what's going on in the coming generations, not to point out that we have an account somewhere, while the Norwegian youth goes free because no one invested in jobs in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e356	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e363	I mean it says quite a lot about what happened during this growing-up period, when we now hear the Right-People talking almost like the FrPs, that we don't have to go about the piggy, but look to get used the money. We're not talking here about a little bit more money. We're talking about a lot more. The structural budget deficit has increased from 5.2 pst. to 7.9 pst. while Erna Solberg has been Prime Minister. If, in fact, the use of money is justified in bad times, it must be a kind of principle that it should be easy to bring down the use of money again. This weekend we got a budget settlement, and it has one feature: many large, permanent spending increases that are financed by income we only get once. The report will come in the next big period, and it may be right for the representative Fleet. I almost have to ask the fleet if he believes that the budget agreement we got this weekend was a good contribution to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e374	Yes, I think that was a very good contribution to future generations, because it contributed to the budget that was originally provided, which was 1,200 billion. and provided investment in what will create the future jobs – investments in infrastructure, rail, collective, school, knowledge and also tax incentives for business – were ensured, precisely through the agreement, the agreement we have reached. There are amounts on the expenditure side that, in relation to the original budget, do not destroy any accountability in the Norwegian economy at all. If you look back, you will see that there have been constant increases on the expenditure side, and I have to allow myself to say that there is nothing in the Labour Party's alternative that has any other direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e381	The child’s being subjected to violence and assault is heartbreaking. At the same time, the cost to the kids, who get their childhood destroyed, which can shape their lives completely, is inhuman. The budgetary agreement represents a number of positive, concrete and committed improvements in the fight against violence against young people. In the future, will the Right also make use of commitments so that we can continue the fight for the young – against violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e388	Now we have just received a manual from the representative Marthinsen saying that, for example. this type of expenditure priorities must not be persistent. She has herself criticised the budgetary unity of what it meant, and the budgetary unity is very important in this area – violence and abuse of children. It's not this that's been the big discussion theme. This is important, these are things you have to keep going. I will not promise what level this will be at, but what I can promise is that the Right in Government will be speaking in this area in the future as well. We'll dry out putting this in when the Christian People's Party comes up with something that we may not have inserted. But it's not that we don't put things into our own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e395	When I sat last night and prepared for the debate, I thought I'd get Google a little around. Then I entered "political chaos" in my Google search field, and what then appeared? An advertisement from the Right – and there was the first post: Read more about Right as a political party in Norway. It was Google’s response to ‘political chaos’. So I have a question for Svein Fleet. Is the Right familiar with the way in which the State budget is dealt with in the Storting during this major period? Is it responsible? Are we taking seriously the decisions to be taken with sufficient responsibility – when there has been no proper procedure in the Financial Committee on the realities of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e402	First of all, I am pleased that the representative was given the opportunity to get into the budget in advance, last night. We have also spent evenings agreeing on this, and I agree that things could go faster, for opposition reasons. It's not a template for you to do it like this every year. But I also want to say that the alternative to not agreeing is that there is another policy in Norway – a policy similar to the one we had in the red-green period, and for which Battle Violence Vedum was also an exponent, who did not take into account the change that everyone knew had to come at some point, that caused great expense to business, and that we have done in a completely different way. Time use: If not critical, it should be smaller, but the result: absolutely excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e411	Can the representative Fleet explain the logic of at the same time cutting 37 million. NOK 300 million is spent on disabled dependants who are unable to work. kr to hand out cash to healthy parents so they won't work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e417	There are many outbursts of the devices in both unfinished reform and other measures, and I see that in the details you can sometimes get out unlucky. I admit that. But I also think it's the way this budget is taking very good care of the weak in society. Then we get a little bit back to what Marthinsen was inside here. She does not want any of our spending priorities, at least as few as possible, to continue. We will continue to deal with the weak in society through our budgetary units. So it may be that someone falls outside some arrangements, but the big picture is that this is a good budget also for vulnerable groups in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e429	On Saturday December 3rd, after long negotiations, the four cooperation parties agreed on next year's government budget. There is no reason to hide that the negotiations have been extra demanding this time because the individual priorities are not always consistent, but the main thing is that the parties in the Stortinget have established a budgetary unit for 2017. A minority government must negotiate many important and difficult issues in the Storting and not in government offices. It means greater publicity about different political priorities and, at the same time, the vitalisation of the Stortinget and greater focus on the general lines connecting the four parties on the non-socialist side. The time we are in is demanding, and therefore it is important that we deliver a budget that is best suited to the challenges we face. The 2017 budget will contribute to more jobs and increase activity in the Norwegian economy. Budgetary unity is moving in a few billions, but in sum, the main arrangement and priority of the government's submitted government budget are well taken care of. Important efforts for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life are further strengthened by the priorities contained in the agreement. In the autumn of 2015, the action space in the State budget was challenged by the strong increase in the number of asylum seekers. Now this has turned around. Strict and consistent immigration policies deliver results and allow resources to be re-prioritized to other important budgetary priorities. Policies work. Policy is to prioritise, but there are results that show which priorities are the best and most correct. Fortunately, it may seem that the Norwegian economy in general, and the oil industry in particular, is in the worst recession. Several key economic figures give reason to hope that the bottom has passed, but there is still a need for conversion and change in the Norwegian economy. Private sector growth is on the increase, investment in mainland Norway is on the increase, unemployment is on the decline in most countries, and employment is on the increase. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show a record in the number of newly established enterprises, with particularly high growth rates in western countries that were hit hardest by the oil price drop. The figures from the Statistical Centre show that Norway has many skilled entrepreneurs who are willing to invest and take risks of setting up new businesses and new jobs. The most important thing for those who dare to bet and start up businesses is the belief in the future and the belief that it is possible to succeed. Therefore, the framework conditions must be good and predictable. The structure and level of taxes and charges are an essential part of the framework conditions governing existing and new enterprises. Increased public budgets can provide more jobs in the short term but reinforce problems over time. Lower taxes are an effective tool to create more jobs and increase value creation in the long term. The main feature of the tax reform is the reduction of taxes on jobs, and it is good that the government follows up the broad consensus of the Stortinge on new tax systems, for example. to lower the corporation tax to 24 pst. and reduce the tax burden on Norwegian farm owners. An important part of the transition is to make sure that we have good infrastructure that both business and people can most benefit from. The budgetary authority is making sure that the record bet on commerce is even greater. It is now granted over 800 million. kr extra to the railway, both for maintenance, for new investments and for the planning of new railway projects, including intercity. At the same time, almost 500 million is added. DKK to reward better collective services. The traffic budget has increased by over 50 pst. compared to the previous government budget, and for the first time for several decades, the maintenance run is reduced on the road and on the track. It is building the country, and at the same time it contributes to activity and jobs. Providing gas and building infrastructure such as road and rail at challenging times is good and proper policy. The 2016 budget presented a package of measures aimed at the labour market, and we do so for 2017. The package, which is $4 billion. kr, shall reduce unemployment and increase employment. A good part of the package of measures is targeted at the South and the West, which has been most hit. Through this, we make sure to get more people working, while at the same time upgrading infrastructure and construction. Economic policy provides predictability and better framework conditions, and the package of measures mitigates the negative effects of the current shift in some industries and parts of the country. An important part of the transition is to strengthen the competitiveness of business. That's why we've given over 20 billion. kr in tax reliefs, including the 2017 budget. When corporate taxes are reduced, it becomes more profitable for business to invest, invest and create new jobs in Norway. It is absolutely necessary to take Norway safely through the long-term transition. The tax breaks also benefit most people. A normal family now pays approx. NOK 8 000 less in taxes per year. When you can decide about larger parts of your own income, it gives you greater freedom, and it stimulates you to work more. The drivers will also be satisfied. From 2013 and even next year's budget, we have reduced the one-off charge on ordinary family cars by around NOK 20 000 per car on average. The relief has benefited especially from the loadable hybrids. In 2013, the state took in a total of 20 billion. kr in one-off fee. Now it has fallen, and for 2017 it is down to approx. 17 B.C.E. kr. This means that, in total, the one-off fee is reduced by 3 billion. kr from the level in 2013. Norway is now setting a world record in the sale of low-emission cars because the charging system has changed. The change in the one-off fee is a premium for new cars with low emissions without penalising cars with a lot of safety equipment and a strong engine. The Progress Party will have lower car charges, other parties are most concerned with greening the fees, and now we are delivering on both sides – for the benefit of most people and the environment, while the changes are speeding up the renewal of the car park. The drivers will also receive reduced annual and reduced toll rates until next year. Security for life and health is a high priority for the Progress Party. Health cows are now being reduced, more are being treated, and waiting times are being reduced. It contributes to increased work effort and better well-being. The 2017 budget provides a significant increase in the allocation of activity growth in hospitals, and the free capacity of private individuals is used for the benefit of the community. At the same time, I am very happy that we are once again raising a group that is not at the top of the table, namely the lone minimum pensioners, who next year get NOK 4000 more in retirement, similar to what they got this year. It's well deserved. The justice sector is important to the Progress Party, so we are strongly committed to this. The 2017 budget provides 50 million. extra to provide more prosecution lawyers, investigators and enhanced interrogation resources against violence against children. It is an area that needs to be given high priority. The government has the ambition to have two police officers per 1000 inhabitants at national level during 2020. Since the government joined, more than 1 000 new police posts have been allocated and another 350 new police posts are planned next year. The 2017 budget is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. I registered that Marianne Marthinsen did not include the Progress Party in the responsible political company when she spoke about oil money. The Workers' Party, in effect, claims that investment in infrastructure, health, justice, education, research and increased activity in times of decline is irresponsible. It's quite eye-catching and quite interesting. The working party has only one solution, and that is to increase taxes. For the Progress Party, it has been very right to bet on the areas that I mentioned, because the previous government left itself too much lag.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e472	It's just to state that the Progress Party in the government is happy to spend other people's money. With the Progress Party at the head, we have seen a record high level of oil money usage, and it seems with great zeal that one has used the billions that lower estimates of asylum arrivals have given. At the same time, one has completely forgotten, it seems, the increasing unemployment. Under this government, the unemployment rate has increased by 30 p.m., and only in the last two months one sees that there will be more people available. In November, Stavanger has an absence that has never been higher in history. No new jobs are created, and employment is falling. And what does the government do? A cutter in the 5-billion-billion-dollar package of measures. NOK 4 billion. kr. Free in the South and West require action. Why can't the Progress Party afford more measures to combat unemployment in the conciliation, when one has record money at his disposal? Has the Progress Party completely forgotten the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e477	The representative makes a number of claims that are necessarily incorrect, and some of them are far from the truth. It is precisely, as I also said in my speech, measures to dampen the change that is now taking place in parts of the country within certain industries, which are priorities in this state budget, and which are really strengthened by the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. There's a four-billion-billion-dollar package of measures. kr, which is a continuation of what was the package of measures for this year and which was further reinforced in the revised national budget. Efforts are still being made to facilitate a proper level of taxation and a proper tax system for the benefit of enterprises that are responsible for long-term value creation, and there is a focus on knowledge, in several places of study and increased investment in research. So the main arrangement in the budget that the government has presented, and the agreement that we have negotiated, is that we should continue the positive development of building the country, and facilitate increased value creation and more targeted welfare for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e484	On such a day, it's nice to hear that one boasts of each other for the different breakthroughs that are in the budget, and that's quite a lot of good. The representative Limi himself mentioned the impact we have of NOK 4000 extra to the minimum pensioners, and a strong boost to combat violence and abuse against children. But I'm not going to hide that the Christian People's Party was very disappointed when the budget came, when we saw the effort to combat violence and abuse against children. After large amounts in recent years, it was only 176 million. kr that the government boasted was the investment in 2017. Now, after the budget agreement, we can say it's over half a billion. It is an important first step, for now there is a stepping-up plan in Stortingen to combat violence and abuse, and it should be a stepping-up plan. Today, there is a little more a big message and a description of different processes that are in progress. Will the Progress Party, stressing that this is an important topic, be willing to do what the Storting has said, namely to bring obligingly earmarked measures over the next few years to ensure that we rise to the level where we know we need to be to ensure that children are safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e491	Let there be no doubt that the Progress Party in government will do as the Stortinget decides. It is very important, as the representative Roppstad is about to do, to increase the effort and perhaps also to improve the use of resources in the efforts we have, precisely to limit and detect abuse and violence against children. So I can assure you that there we have a common interest in strengthening and targeting measures, and we have also included commitments in the agreement that we have now entered into, to do just that, so that we can further improve the measures that have already been set up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e496	Once in Norway, we had a party called Anders Langes Parti, which changed its name to the Progress Party. That lot was too heavy a reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention. That party is beginning to become a history, because today's Progress Party is a party for a strong increase in public charges and public intervention. How can Hans Andreas Limi defend to his constituents that, in the course of one state budget, the Progress Party increases the fuel and diesel charges more than one could do for eight red-green years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e503	It is still the case that this party exists with a different name, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum rightly pointed out. Then I am a little surprised that claims can be made that we are increasing the fees in the current budget – that is rather the opposite. There is, however, a small adjustment to petrol and diesel, but at the same time there is considerable relief for the drivers. Among other things, the annual tax on cars is reduced, there is still a change in the one-off charge, and the toll rates in the districts are falling, so in this budget package there should be a great deal that both the Centre Party and the Representative for Violence Vedum can enjoy, not least with the measures that lie there, for the benefit of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e508	Does the representative Limi think that the government's introduction of taxes on contracts is particularly good, given that so many people have had to stop working in the last few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e514	The measure to which the representative Serigstad Valen refers is one of many measures, which became part of the consensus we negotiated on the 2016 budget. At the same time, we are doing many other positive actions on the tax side. We have many improvements in the action package, just to mitigate the results of the transformation that many industries and parts of the country are in. So in sum, I'd say it's a positive, and it's a positive contribution not just to make sure people keep the job, but that more people get to work. It is often the case that priority needs to be given to identifying important, high-priority measures, and that was the result when we had these negotiations on the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e519	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e524	This is the fourth budgetary procedure we have in this period. For every year the treatment of the most important case of the year has become a little lower and a little less thorough. Last year there was a strong criticism in the Finance Committee and in the Storting of how this budgetary process had been conducted, and that we had in fact only one proper discussion of the facts of the matter in the Committee. This year, thanks to the government and the supporting parties, or what they are now called, we have put a new record in the very last reading here in Stortinget. Last year there was one meeting, this year no meetings, in the Financial Committee – not one meeting where we have discussed the realities of the matter. And the financial position, which is the most important document the Stortinge treats in a year, was never completed with the real numbers and with the real political priorities. It is irresponsible, what is happening, and it is a fundamental breach of the guidelines that the Storting has on how to deal with a budget. The government has opened its eyes and run this process. Erna Solberg has pushed the problem in front of him. The fact that she chose to push the defence's long-term plan into the harvest session has made the entire harvest session very inconspicuous, and this is very irresponsible in how we deal with big, heavy issues. In all the chaos we have witnessed, the cases drown and the seriousness of the individual decisions. In the state budget, we point out the direction of our country. Each decision concerns local communities, individuals and how Norway should become. In that case, one cannot have such a complete procedure that one must not be allowed to enter into reality in the various proposals. Norway is a fantastic country with large and small communities – from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. We have chosen a completely different path from what they have chosen in our neighbouring country, Sweden. Where they have pursued a deliberate depopulation policy in the districts, we have pursued a policy that goes completely the opposite way. We have conducted a policy for the whole country, where we have faith in proximity, not just in greatness. We've thought it wise to have police, hospitals, schools and public services close to where people live, and we've used tax policy not only to smooth out social differences, but also to smooth out geographical differences. We've used industry policy to create business activity and value creation in fjords, mountains and around our country. It has been a success story, the active policy we have pursued in Norway. This is now threatened. I live in a neighboring country in Sweden. When you cross the border, you see the consequences of this policy of centralisation. It's been depopulation. We don't want to be like Sweden. This budget is a new centralisation budget. The Christian People's Party is going to have them reversed some of the cuts, but the course is the same. I would like to take some examples that have not been discussed at all, because we have never had time to discuss them in the course of the autumn: with this budget, we are going to put down almost half of the country's tax office. They're to be centralised, they're to be scaled and they're to be remote from the user. We adopt a new prison policy, where the big winner is the Oslo Directorate, which is to be built up, local prisons are to be confiscated, and the small prisons are to be laid down. The government and the support parties adopt a tax policy that is completely reality away from the everyday life of very many people. In large parts of Norway, there is no alternative to the car. It doesn't happen that when you increase the diesel tax by 53 cents, as you actually do, people in the Nordic countries can go on the trick. The bitch isn't there. We must have a charging policy, a collective policy and a transport policy adapted to what Norway actually is. In the discussion about commuting deductions, the government has reduced slightly, but a commuter, such as commuter six miles, gets a little more than NOK 3000 in tax next year than he received in 2013. So what we see in transport policy has been a policy of centralisation and that it has been a distance from reality. It must be the lifting break of times when the Progress Party in one budget increases the taxes on petrol and diesel more than what happened in eight red-green years. There was no one who had believed it when the Progress Party was voted into the government offices. At the same time, there has been a massive weakening of the commuting deduction, and we set historical record in toll collection in 2016 and 2017. In our alternative budget, we have a different charging policy – a charging policy that does not punish people who are addicted to using the car at work. There's a lot of them. We have a different policy for commuters, where we increase the amount of commuting so that you are almost back at the level of 2013, which means that those who have to travel a long time at work get compensated for it. We have a tax policy that makes everyone who earns less than NOK 750,000 less tax, and that the biggest tax relief goes to ordinary workers who earn between NOK 400,000 and NOK 600 000. Those who earn the most have to pay more, those who do the practical daily work, have to pay less with our tax arrangements. We're going to get 500 million. More to the district police, because we believe it is vital to have a good preparedness around the country, and to occupy all the available police posts you see. The current situation is unsustainable. We're going to get 1 billion. NOK more for hospitals and SEK 500 million. kr more to the local hospitals. We believe it is important to have good local hospitals even where there are few people, because we need to have a preparedness for all of Norway, not just for parts of the country. So we're going to get 2 billion. more to the municipalities because a municipality is the most important welfare provider in our society in terms of school, nursing homes and the local cultural offer. That is why we are betting on the municipalities. We're going to get 1 billion. more to county councils, just to have a strong player who can drive business development, higher education and public transport around the country. And we're increasing regional development funds by 500 million. kr, because we think it is wise that the public can contribute to creating activity even in places where there is not a large center nearby. We're increasing the broadband bet by 200 million. kr, because it is vital that broadband is available throughout the country. We're spending money postponing the shut-off of the FM network, because we don't think it's wise to go over to DAB before you have an up-to-date and good network. It will be exciting to see what the Progress Party is doing with that proposal, whether they support it, or whether they are against it. I hope that the Progress Party and the Labour Party will also support it. We're adding 1.5 billion. kr more to the defense, because we believe it is vital for a country to have a good land defence. One of the main problems with the proposal for a long-term plan in the autumn was that they forgot how important the Army and the Home Office were. That is why we are putting a heavy strain on defence in our budget. Then we have a big disagreement with the government parties and the supporting parties in terms of the tax and tax arrangements – the discussion about depreciation rates. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government said that depreciation rates should be actively used to strengthen business in Norway. But what you see in this budget is that you give a tax bill to our business operators of 1.8 billion. NOK because you remove the scheme of initial writing. In sum, we see here the fourth consecutive budget that contributes to the centralisation of our country. We look at it in all areas of society: in terms of public welfare, how the tax regime is going to be, and how the tax policy is being designed. Let's hope that we don't witness more of the kind of unprofessional procedure we've had this autumn, because a government budget should be properly and properly treated, and the decisions should be thoughtful. I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e572	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has thus taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e579	The Labour Party and the Center Party are united in ensuring good welfare services throughout the country through a solid municipal economy. We've been in government for eight years, and we've done that after we left the government. The blue-blue government has almost doubled the oil money usage and has nearly 100 billion dollars. kr more at your disposal without getting the municipalities better. Taxes on the rich are more important than strengthening our common welfare services to large and small. The Labour Party has more than 200 rapporteurs, the Central Party has over 100. What messages does the head of the Central Party receive about the financial situation of the municipalities in which the Central Party is in charge? And what does the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, think about the distribution policy that the Solberg government is now showing in the fourth year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e584	Let's start with the distribution policy. It can be summarised quite simply, because the 50 richest in Norway have received 1 billion. SEK in tax cut – 20 million. kr each. That's about. the same as the Progress Party now wants to increase its petrol and diesel taxes. Ordinary people have to pay approx. 1 billion. kr more in the fee, and the 50 richest will get it. This is the practical distribution policy for the Progress Party. With regard to the discussion about Norwegian municipalities, we know that that is very critical. That's why we're now increasing the budget by 2 billion. kr, because we're busy having school, nursing homes, kindergarten, local cultural facilities near where people live. That's our main assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e591	The centre party itself was in a government with the largest economic space that a Norwegian government has ever had. The economy was growing, and the oil price was historically high. Nevertheless, health cows increased, there were 15 000 more poor children, and most people paid more in taxes. Figures from the SSB also show that the whole employment growth after 2008 went to migrant workers, which LO thought was a forced Norwegian labour force. So this was with the Center Party in government. The same SSB has analysed the government's tax policy. In this year’s report, they conclude that government’s use of instruments has produced good results in both the number of jobs, increased value creation and increased business turnover. So geography and industry-neutral instruments work very well, according to the SSB's professional assessment. It is said that a man without facts and professional judgement is just a man with a meaning. When the representative Schlagsvold Vedum criticises the government's industrial policy, does he have other professional assessments, or is he just a man of meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e600	I understand that the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde is spending time talking about the state budget for 2008 and 2009 when you see the draft state budget available here, because there is no good budget, there is no good food budget. The right has written in their party program, they wrote in the Sundvolden statement, that they want to use depreciation as an active tool to create new investments across the country. We know that's an instrument that works, that creates initial investment. I think it's amazing that the Right, who wants to call themselves a business, now chooses to tax those who invest in Norwegian business, by 1.8 billion. kr more next year by removing the initial writing code, something that the right has burned for a very long time, but from which they now go away for some reason. I know attack is the best defense, but this is the reality. The right removes one of the most important tools for creating new activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e605	In a line change earlier today, there was a discussion about who had read what budget and been inspired – I think it was the Syverse who had it in his line. Although I have no great faith in the fact that Mr Vedum's representative has read our budget and been inspired by it, one would think so, because in 2016 the Senterpartiet proposed 14.6 billion. kr in tax aggravation. This year, they're proposing 7.2 billion. kr, i.e. a halving of the tax austerity. I want to ask Battle Violence Vedum: Is he on the right path, or is the reduction something going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e612	We were involved in a broad tax settlement in Stortinget in spring. We are committed to predictability in the tax policy for individuals, for entrepreneurs and for those planning activity in Norway. Then we have to adapt fiscal policy at all times to the economic situation in which our country is. We believe that the level at which we have taxed this year, with a little over 7 billion. kr more in tax, is high enough to get coverage for the bets that we want to have on the municipality, transportation, district, hospital and police.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e617	The leader of the centre party was in charge policy and accused the Progress Party of not being faithful to itself – I think he meant. Sometimes I wonder if the Senterpartiet is entirely faithful to itself too, because when the Stortinget dealt with the energy message in June, i.e. a few months ago, the Senterpartiet together with the Arbeiderpartiet, SV and the Umweltpartiet De Greene contributed on the following proposal: ‘The government is asking for a gradual increase in current fossil fuel and polluting transport charges.’ Did the representative, Mr Vedum, vote in favour of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e634	There has been a great predictability of the Central Party's tax policy. Prime Minister Erna Solberg used last week's press conference to attack the fact that when the Central Party was in government, the taxes on petrol and diesel increased much less than now, when the Progress Party is in government. It sums up that when we have had power and responsibility, we have had stability and predictability and have been concerned with realities, not symbols. Because it is not that if you increase the diesel tax by 53øre – which is the actual calculation when you calculate VAT and price increases – there will be less driving in Nordland and Troms. We must have a charging policy adapted to the country we are in, not just adapted to the Oslo Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e644	On May 22, 2007, Kofi Annan and Bill Clinton had a joint conversation evening in Oslo Spectrum with Jan Egeland as their spokesperson. Clinton also received: questions about what he thought about the way Norway at the time solved its climate challenges by purchasing allowances abroad. ‘Change starts at home’ – dot. Kofi Other followed up: Being small has nothing to do with greatness. Norway has great influence in the world. Norway can rent on the environment. In such a perspective, the budgetary process and the budgetary agreement we are about to adopt today have been brilliant. If I'm going to start by saying something positive about the ultimatum the government came to the Stortinget with, it will undoubtedly have the incentive that the process and the public debate have more than anything else to do with climate change, the problems of climate change, green change and green growth. Yes even something so important, but perhaps a thought counted for anyone other than fiscal politicians, who has been popularized and hot stuffed in the media how many hundreds of thousands of tons of CO 2 we have to reduce emissions every year. The environment and climate are seen on the case map as never before – here on the house, in the media, in the world outside the bubble of budget negotiators have been in the last four to five weeks. It is, in isolation, fantastic and decisive in view of the fact that climate change is the greatest global problem in the world at present, a problem that needs to be solved. Those who have the trustee's responsibility today will give future generations the same freedom and the same opportunities to enjoy and use nature as we have enjoyed. Unfortunately, however, the debate is not just about what Norway can and should do to follow up the Paris Agreement and achieve the objective of at least 40 pst. spillage fire in 2030. It has not only been about all the measures to strengthen all the exciting things happening in Norwegian business and industry, how we can and will politically strengthen and advance the green shift, about all the possibilities, the workplaces and the good lives that lie in a green shift. The debate has just as much about the ultimatum, civil cooperation and government's lack of willingness to follow up on the budget agreement itself for the current year: that the state budget for 2017 would result in a green tax shift that contributed to the monthly reduction of domestic greenhouse gas emissions – a green tax shift not because it is an objective in itself, but because taxes and charges are one of the most effective tools we have to use market forces in the climate and value creation services, and to make it easier and more profitable to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life and in governance. Without me spending a lot of time embroidering the follow-up damage at the ultimatum – others get to care: there is a reason this is the first time in Norwegian political history that a minority government has come to the Stortinget with an ultimatum at the bottom of its draft budget. The left has given the Prime Minister and former climate minister Tine Sundtoft well-informed about the job they did to make the Paris agreement a reality. The 2017 government budget should and should be the budget seriously where we took the important steps to achieve the Storting's own commitments in relation to emissions by 2020, and where we pointed out a credible course towards the Paris agreement's objective of reducing Norway's greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. The proposals made by the Left in its 2017 state budget proposal today, and which we will primarily vote for, will do so. The proposal also largely coincides with the government's short-term distribution since it was accepted by the Green Competitiveness Expert Committee. In terms of climate policy, Norway is in a special position. We have high greenhouse gas emissions, we will be greatly affected by climate change and have a highly oil-dominated economy at the same time. The possibilities we have to meet these parallel challenges are just through a real green shift and green growth. Therefore, today, the Left suggests an alternative that will result in a green tax change of about 15 billion. kr, with about the same amount of tightening and easier in green taxes and taxes. We propose an increase in public transport, bicycle and pedestrian routes and renewable solutions in the transport sector of over 6 billion. kr. We propose a shift of Norwegian business in a more environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly direction, with new measures and an increase of 1.5 billion. kr, and we propose continuous real tax changes with a weight of shifts. New taxes on cars and the environment are shifted into an environmental tax deduction for all, combined with lower taxes on environmentally friendly solutions. Most people get out better than they do today, and everyone who chooses to live more environmentally friendly will be considerably better off. We suggest a necessary shift from fossil to zero in the fleet. We suggest a necessary switch from car and road to public transport, rail and bicycle. For districts, we guarantee that alternatives, biofuels and low-emission cars will become more competitive. We propose the first necessary steps for a shift from oil to green innovation and technology. The green shift is the main profile of the 2017 government budget proposal for the Left, but we also propose a number of measures that will help solve several of the challenges facing Norway: a targeted effort to reduce unemployment and create more new, sustainable jobs, especially in the private sector. In total, the Left proposes about 7 million. in different actions related to technology transfer and innovation, measures to boost business start-ups and measures to increase activity. In addition, proposals for targeted taxes for Norwegian businesses amounting to about 2 million. in addition to the proposal of the Government, such as, inter alia, the company tax is reduced from 25 to 24 pst. We have a clear redistribution to those who need it the most, both through a more social tax system, redistribution of cash from the public sector and a series of targeted measures across the expenditure side of the government budget. In total, it's 3.2 billion. kr to those who need the most: early work in kindergarten, SFO/AKS, the ground floor, health follow-up of children and young people with about 2 billion. kr, a digitisation and ICT lift in the school of approximately 650 million. kr, a strengthened municipal economy with 3 billion kr, which is approximately SEK 1.8 billion. increased revenue, prevention measures and public health by 2.8 billion. kr, and last but not least, a more sustainable use of oil money. The left suggests initially about 7 billion. kr less in the use of oil money than that provided by the government. We also believe that the reduced cost estimates relate to fewer asylum seekers of course should have been used to reduce oil money consumption accordingly. There is no secret that there have been very demanding budget negotiations this autumn – demanding because the government chose to start negotiations with the so-called ultimatum if not to follow up on budget issues last year. It was demanding because the government started negotiations by proposing a cut in the railways and in the public transport system of about 1 billion. demanding that the government start negotiations by proposing a cut in the environmental technology system, and demanding that the government start negotiations by proposing a cut in the Environment Directorate with a basis for exceptional savings measures. Exceptional savings measures for what? – a budget of 1 300 billion. kr. The left is very little occupied with which game may be winners and losers following the budget agreement. We are concerned that the environment and climate will eventually be a winner. It poisons our kids, grandchildren and grandchildren of those who come after us. There is no doubt that this is the case for the next year, with the agreement we are to adopt today. The agreement does not go as far as the Left will go, but it is a significant improvement in the arrangement of the government originally provided. When the leader of Oslo Arbeidarparti, Aina Stenersen, claims that we cannot have the climate and environmental budget of the time every year, she makes fundamental mistakes. If we are to achieve the goals of the government's Advance Party, Norway is obliged to, then we must have the climate and environmental budget of the times for many, many years to come. So I'm going to comfort Stenersen and her opinion traps, who may not have all the world's involvement or belief that climate change is man-made, or that it means what Norway is doing: what is the problem, as long as everything that's good for the climate, is usually not just good, but absolutely necessary for the competitiveness of Norwegian business and more and safer jobs? There is a great deal that is in isolation positive in the budget agreement to which the Left today provides subsidized aid. In order to spend the remaining time on the changes that are now on the table, I would like to thank the Cooperation Party for our joint responsibility and even to give up on the Kingdom a budget agreement this year too, which is good for the country in general, and with which all four of us are very happy. In the event of an incurrence, the word 'floating' has been included in appeal proposal No. 10 from the Cooperation Party, as the Syverse advocates in its article. On behalf of the majority today, I can inform you that the government can ignore that word when the decision is to be monitored. Finally, I take up proposal No. 27, from the Left, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e679	The representative of Terje Breivik has taken up the proposal he referred to. The president also believes to know that Aina Stenersen is not the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e686	Akershus? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e691	FrP!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e696	Oh, yeah, did I say the Working Party? That heart is full, you know!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e706	Up to several of us are engaged in the generation accounts. We read in Today's Business today that the representative Rotevatn from the Left criticises the government's use of money. "Not very wise," he says. The Workers' Party may agree to this. The same representative, however, is very pleased with the use of money that goes to Sogn and Fjordane, among others. that the cut in Norsk Fjordhestsenter on Nordfjordeid is reversed. In Hardanger Folkeblad we read that the representative Breivik is pleased to grant $3 million. kr to NVIM in Tyssedal. But in the same newspaper, we see that Odda Municipality has a dramatic income deficit, and suggestions for setting up a residence in Røldal are on the table. Obviously, there's no left impression. Are Horse Centres and Museums responses to struggling municipalities, and Left’s examples of wise use of money? And where has it become of the Left who knows that there are people living outside the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e713	I hope that the representative will listen to the post I just held from Stortinget's speech seat, where the left is just giving significant priority to strengthening the local economy, well 3 billion. kr, where it is, inter alia, 1.8 B.C.E. SEK in additional free revenues. It is clear that even in a state budget as large as the Norwegian government budget is, small things are also immeasurably important to them. One bet of $3 million. kr in one of the ‘mine’ municipalities – to say it like the harding I am – at the Norwegian Vasskraft and Industristadmuseum in Odda is despondent that they will really be able to carry out the task they have taken on as a national centre of competence to document some of the most important history Norway has as an industrial and water power nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e721	Unfortunately, the left has been the government's leading support party and has been enthusiastic about all the centralisation reforms adopted by this government. It has amazed us in the Center Party that the Left has become so blind in the belief in greatness and centralization. Also in the budget debate, something has happened that I think is a little amazing, and that is the violent resistance of the Left to the commuting deduction. So far, for example, a commuter who commutes 6 miles, received NOK 3 200 more in tax thanks to the decisions of the government and the parties. And then the government wanted to refund 80 kroner, as they called 'compensation for the drivers', so they would get 3 126 kroner more in tax, instead of 3 200 kroner more in tax. Why was it such an important principle that Breivik even threatened with the government crisis on the commuter deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e728	I hope that the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum is as busy as I am from the results and not from the polemics and processes in the process. As the representative knows, the final result is agreed today, in accordance with the turbulence of the representative, Mr Vedum, i.e. that the proposal of the government on commuting is unchanged. When the Left is aware that the expenditure side of a so-called green tax shift is at least as important as the tax boost, it is linked to the fact that we agree to have a tax shift, one must pay the sectors that come out badly when it is due to tax increase, and give compensation, but one cannot give overcompensation at the size initially provided by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e735	I think that Terje Breivik is a good man, but if I were his mother, I would have been worried that he was hanging out too much with the wrong people. Before the elections, the Left people in Norway wondered that if you only vote on us, we will make sure that the climate denies from the Progress Party are put in government, and then the greenhouse gas emissions are going to go down. Greenhouse gas emissions have risen. In 2014, Ola Elvestuen guaranteed the following and said: ‘This may be the first state budget in history to say with certainty that emissions from the transport sector will decrease.’ The fact is, they went up. Terje Breivik now boasts that the climate budget has now been put in place. Greenhouse gas emissions are going to be cut by 600 000 tonnes. These figures are disputed. But the sum of everything is what's central. Therefore I ask: Can Terje Breivik say with his hand on his heart that next year the greenhouse gas emissions from Norway will fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e749	First, I can reassure the representative that my mother thought it was pretty big that I was sitting on the Stortinget, and she has a very great sense for the two party leaders in the government party. So there I'm well served. Of course, I can't with my hands on my heart go well for something that I don't have professional expertise to go into. The numbers that we have got on the table of what is of available professional expertise indicate that greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 are falling. Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e756	Congratulations to the Left and the Christian People's Party, which has been implemented in order to introduce a climate law that is modelled on the British pattern and which then appears to be considerably better than the proposal put forward by the government, and significantly more in line with the Green Party's proposals. Unfortunately, this proposal by the cooperation parties still lacks some, and the most incomprehensible thing is that the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party are postponing binding climate budgets and reporting far into the next major period – until 2020. Could the representative Breivik explain why perhaps the most important single instrument of climate policy should be postponed, so that it almost does not take effect until the end of the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e763	First of all, thank the representative Hansson for his congratulations. I think there is reason for the few real environmental parties to be happy with what has been achieved in the 2017 budget agreement. I would like to draw the attention of the representative Hansson to the fact that, among all the appeal proposals, the decisions that follow the budget agreement, and the decisions that we are going to take later today, there is also one who is just asking the government to come back to the Storting with the addition to the government budget that takes care of the need for the Stortinget to see the climate impact of the government budget in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e770	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e775	I refer to SV's proposal, with the exception of proposal No. 64, which will be promoted in an improved version of the Municipal Committee. Norway needs a new majority, which reduces the unfair economic inequality, which combats poverty and which actually addresses climate change and reduces emissions. We need a new majority to solve the real problems in Norway – working for those sitting at the bottom of the table, redistributing wealth, so that everyone can live decently in Norway and have the opportunity to follow their dreams, which recognizes the seriousness of the man-made climate change, which combats labour-life crime and social dumping instead of facilitating it, and which are more concerned with succeeding in integration rather than struggling on television. The majority we have now seems more concerned with solving problems between ourselves than with solving problems for most people. And as long as the bourgeois majority is ruled, Norway is transformed into a more divided and more unfair society. Housing prices are growing at a rate that makes it clear to everyone that we have a corrupted housing market. In particular, all economists participating in the Norwegian public conversation encourage tax transfer from work to property. It will be redistributive, and it will dampen the price pressure. The OECD calls for the same thing. Already in June, the IMF estimated that the Norwegian housing market was 40 pst. the overprice, and that before it would grow in the last year. The majority sit and watch, while tens of thousands are shut out of the Norwegian dream and class barriers are cemented. They have been most concerned with their own life problems in civil cooperation. When one spent so long in the budget negotiations that most people asked if we were going to have a government at all at the end of this debate today, when one negotiated so loudly that even party leaders on the radio baffled: «We're keeping each other too fooled», and when one negotiated so slowly and it was so difficult to reach agreement that both parties broke, then one would believe that there were some real political gains in sneaking back to the Prime Minister and making an agreement anyway. At least I thought that this weekend, when I saw that the bourgeois parties had come to an agreement – there had to be some significant concessions here. Maybe they fixed the cuts that hit people with multiple disabilities and road damage? No, it does not have the Christian People's Party and the Left priority. Maybe they got something done about the new tax introduced on contracts? No, it has not given priority to the Left and Christian People's Party. Maybe they're paying for several places for permanent work? No, they haven't given priority to that. Maybe they're doing something about the petty cuts in free legal aid? No, they haven't given priority to that. But at least you should think that they had something to do with the excesses of physical therapy, which affects many people in the North with chronic disorders. No, it has not given priority to the Left and Christian People's Party. What about the very contentious cut in the children's allowance for disabled dependants – the cut that the Left and Christian People's Party has previously taken the credit to "save" before it turned out that thousands of families are deprived of thousands of dollars anyway? No, it does not give priority to the Left and the Christian People's Party. On the other hand, they speak the word ‘workline’ with the Right and the Advance Party on any conceivable occasion, especially when it comes to chronically ill dependants or people who have worn out their bodies in their working life. The same majority, on the other hand, prioritises an increase in cash support of several hundred million kroner. So the same crowd that the last year has taken from 367 families NOK 29 000 each on average – i.e. NOK 29 000 in cut to poor carers – while they straighten out the money finger and say it's worth working, decides not only to expand this cut to reach 4,500 children, they spend almost 300 million at the same time. NOK to pay healthy parents for not working. They can afford that. People who have to quit work have to pay. Chronically ill people who need physical therapy and help have to pay. Those who need free legal aid have to pay. Those who do not enter the housing market have to pay. Those unwary parents have to pay. But healthy people should get money to be at home – Greetings Integration-FrP, Greetings Equality-Left. With this in mind, one would think that this budget must have some other, absolutely crucial, qualities, since the social side is obviously not among them. That the heart of the struggle between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government was not about helping those who need it the most, we have been well documented. The core of the conflict was climate. I am among those who gave the Left whole-hearted commendation to stand on the demands and break the negotiations as it turned out that the Right Party and the Advance Party were not willing to take climate gas shots seriously. Humanity has a bad time. It is our generation that will be judged in the future whether we are able to stop the disaster or not. The three major fossil parties in Norway have not impressed with their efforts so far. We need environmental parties that are hard to deal with, and that are even willing to fall a government if that's what it takes. To be honest, it is quite difficult to understand that the same Left that was willing to risk the government crisis last week, today supports a climate budget that Cicero believes leads to less climate gas cuts than the Labour Party's budget proposals put forward. This is the opposite of climate policy. It's all right to say, we didn't get enough. This was as far as we came. Both the SV, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party know what it is like to have to cooperate with parties that lack ambitions in the climate field. But if Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen come and offer a pig out of a budget, then the Left doesn't have to enthusiastically offer to make up the pig! Now the left of a so-called green tax change of 5.3 billion. kr. This sum presupposes adding the increase in CO 2 tax and the equal reduction in the user charge on top of each other. So the sum is really zero, but in the left-hand country, this is going to be a green tax change of several hundred million dollars. Now the Left boasts 260,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions cut but already adopted by Enova, which would thus take place regardless of who Siv Jensen entered into a budgetary agreement with. If it were with a total coal industry and all the world's rain foresters, they would have taken place. Now the left boasts that electric car advantages give 65 000 tonnes of CO 2 cut, which was calculated long before the budget negotiations were over. The only thing missing is that the left in the press reports takes credit for a green candidate won the presidential election in Austria yesterday. The cooperation parties have made a choice. They have chosen their own condemnation and civic prestige over the real cut in greenhouse gas emissions. They have chosen to stay together rather than do something about increasing inequality, housing prices out of control and increasing child poverty. The Christian People's Party thus ends up cutting new 1000-dollars in the budgets of families with disabled dependants. The left ends by supporting a budget that burys the climate agreement rather than reinforcing it, and with an oil money use that one has to go to Gulf States to find something similar, and with an invasion that the party's own representatives of the big business are already so bluffing over that they are taking a break from their own budget on the front page of Today's Business on the day the budget is to be adopted. The progress party ends up supporting a budget where people will mostly experience billions of cuts in hospitals and petty cuts directed at those who need the most help. On the right there was no one in this process who heard anything from. But the tax cuts of the economic elite, the country's most wealthy, are, of course, in place. Today we could have gone a completely different way. We could adopt a budget that gave a more progressive and fair tax system, where the tax on labour was lower and the tax on property and wealth higher, so that labor paid itself the most, and so that people most markedly differ. We could launch new welfare reforms. We could put thousands of people in a position to get out of poverty. We could stick to our targets on emissions and set up with the resources, ideas and will to achieve the goals. It won't be today. But – puff and loot – it'll be in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e829	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has addressed the proposals to which he referred, i.e. all SV's proposals except proposal No. Sixty-four. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e836	It could have been tempting to ask the representative Serigstad Valen to continue the killing good analysis of the outcome of the negotiations between the parties, but instead I'm going to come up with some of the Serigstad Valen finally came up with: progressive tax system and redistribution. The SV, like the Workers' Party, has a tax scheme that has a redistributive effect, with relief at the bottom, heavier at the top, and where those with the big assets contribute the most. Serigstad Valen has spent a lot of time criticising the Workers' Party and making claims that since the Workers' Party is involved in the tax settlement, the Workers' Party is pursuing the same tax policy as the Government. The budget setting of the working party now clearly shows that this is wrong. I wonder: will the representative Serigstad Valen now take advantage of the opportunity to make an unreserved apology relating to the claims he has made on the tax arrangements of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e843	In this moment of reconciliation, I will at least openly and happily admit that the Workers' Party shows greater willingness to increase the wealth tax than I predicted. It's most joyous. This means that the SV and the Workers' Party, unlike the civil cooperation parties, are on the same plane before we make the state budget together next year. Then it is that the Workers' Party's alternative state budget collects most of the property tax code that Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg have implemented. The problem is that they have also introduced a 20 pst stock discount, which means that the richest shareholders have removed a fifth of their tax base. It actually has a lot to say. This means that if you compare the Workers' Party's draft budget this year with the tax system when Jens Stoltenberg was Prime Minister, you will receive a 100 million-dollar share. kr in wealth a tax cut of NOK 145 000. I'm very happy in Truls Wickholm. I don't think he really means to be so far to the right of Jens Stoltenberg on tax issues, so give us a year and a little negotiations in October next year, and it will be a really good tax arrangement in collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e851	One of Solberg's first governments was to abolish the inheritance fee. It was probably something that was perceived as very happy for most people, not least of all those who were concerned with the generation change in family businesses. Now we read in the State budget that SV will reintroduce the inheritance fee, but there is nothing about how it should look, and how it should be designed, other than that, as it says, it should take care of distribution purposes. Could the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen tell us a little about the prospects we have on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e858	With joy! We wanted to propose a new inheritance fee with significantly higher deductions to protect people most of the year's budget. We didn't get that because the Ministry of Finance wouldn't give us numbers. They wouldn't help us make that model. So we have to stick to saying that we want to introduce such a model if we get power again. And that's what we're in for. The point here is not the cottage Right-wing promises as the major theme of the debate on inheritance tax; the problem is that Norway is one of two countries of importance in Europe that has abolished its inheritance tax. It's Norway under Erna Solberg, and then it's Italy under Silvio Berlusconi. Right should be proud to be in company with Silvio Berlusconi on tax issues; I don't think it's anything to be proud of. I think there are good reasons to have an inheritance fee for those who are the richest in Norwegian society. This is because the inheritance tax is the most redistributive tax we had, and that is the guarantee that everyone contributes according to the ability of the Norwegian tax system. If the Right wants in the think box of taxes they think is problematic and evil and rental, they should rather take a look at their own taxes on final contracts, which hit many who lose their jobs hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e867	The Christian People's Party is working steadily to increase the one-time benefit for parents who have children without earning the right to parental leave, and we know that SV shares the commitment to increased one-time support with the Christian People's Party. With the 2017 agreement, we have achieved the biggest increase ever. Now the one-time benefit is increased by 25 pst, to over 61,000 kroner. There is a deep injustice in the Norwegian system that it is economically unfavorable to have children early in life. Although, overall, they will be able to contribute as much to society and participate in the same number of years of work, a woman related to employment will receive much more support than a woman who gives birth without having been in work. Is SV in agreement with the Christian People's Party that this increase in disposable social benefits is a very important and correct step in the right direction? It might have been interesting to hear what level SV thinks the one-off benefit should be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e876	I have no problem congratulating the Christian People's Party on persuasion in the political areas where we agree. It's true that if you increase the one-off benefit, it'll have a good and proper social effect. If the Christian People's Party changes sides and cooperates with the left side, they will experience that they will have a much greater impact in these areas. It's not just the one-time support, it's about a lot of other issues related to poverty and children where I know that the Christian People's Party has had to make a lot of painful compromises with the Right and the Advance Party. One thing is the mentioned cut in the children's allowance for poor dependants, a cut I know that the Christian People's Party is not really happy at all, but they have had to go along with it. Something else is the great sin of failure in Norwegian politics, namely child welfare, where SV and the Christian People's Party share a strong commitment. It is the most important instrument we have to ensure that fewer children grow up in poverty. And I can guarantee the Christian People's Party that if they change sides and make budgets with us next year, we can break a 20-year child-restraint in Norway and make a huge effort for thousands of Norwegian families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e885	The representative had a tiger against the climate section of the budget agreement. What I'm asking is what SV really disagrees with. Is that the increase in the collective and cycling effort of one and a half billion? Is that now we're going to mix in 20 pst. biofuels up to 2020? Is it that we need to extend and reinforce the electric car benefits? Is it that we set up a CO 2 fund? Is it that we're strengthening a climate law? Is it that we are gradually introducing a flat CO 2 tax? Is this the increase to Enova, the increase in the Environmental Technology Scheme or the increase in climate to municipalities? Or is the biggest disappointment in SV that the increase in fuel taxes is not higher, even though they are higher than the SV ever got in the eight years they were in government on the red-green side?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e896	The left has itself placed the list here. It is the Left itself who has invested his entire political prestige in that it is Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg who are to strengthen the climate agreement. It is Mr Guri Melby's own central member of the Left's board who has said that the Left should not agree to any budget agreement other than one that 'enhances the climate agreement'. There is no SV that has added that list. It is not the Workers' Party that has done it. It's the left that's done all by itself, and then they have to bear to be measured on it. There are none of the isolated measures Elvesuen lists here, which SV opposes. They're good. The problem is that it's much smaller than what the Left itself has said is what's going to do to save the government. This is the only conceivable conclusion that the Left considers it more important to keep Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance than to be able to meet the climate agreement. When SV directed the country, emissions went down. Now the Left is controlling the country, and then the emissions are going up. So you can do the math yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e903	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e908	The Greens are pleased that the cooperation parties have been given a government budget for this country, so that municipalities and businesses can plan for the future at least with a little horizon. We have previously criticized the Left and Christian People's Party for not fighting hard enough for environmental requirements. Now they've been fighting a lot, so we're taking off our hat for that. They have made the government's draft budget a little greener, and they have raised the importance of environmental policy a little more. For the first time, the quality of the government budget is now assessed on the basis of the actual size of the greenhouse gas budget, in tonnes and on time. It is a small but important step towards a national climate budget, as they are now fully adopted in Oslo. It is good that we are promised a better climate law, it is good that money is transferred from oil research to renewable research, and that for the first time – with all due caution – the cooperation parties affect the issue of the importance of the Paris agreement for Norwegian oil activities. But such a budget cannot only be measured against the previous state budget. It has to be measured against a reality where we have to carry out a green shift and a social transformation that gives equivalency, well-being and freedom within the framework of the Norwegian nature and the earth's environment endures. We need to stop a development that bases human progress on destroying more and more environment. We need to develop a technology that is based on renewable energy, leaving a fossil-based one. We need to develop a circular economy where environmentally friendly solutions are profitable, how polluting solutions are unprofitable, and how short-term growth requirements do not hinder sustainability. We need to develop a consumption that balances with an overall, long-term resource accounting. We have gradually spent very little time implementing this. Therefore, we need to realise that in future Norwegian government budgets, a new, powerful and more demanding approach is needed. If the other seven parties of the Storting had implemented the policies they have based on and made their acquaintance since the Brundtland Commission, we in the Green Party could still cost ourselves to catch bears or care with our organic carrots. But the budget chaos of the autumn has made it quite clear that the Right Party and the Advance Party have failed to understand the seriousness of climate policy. On the one hand, with the support of the Left and Christian People’s Party – in other rounds supported by the Workers’ Party and the Centre – the government has spent three years not cutting greenhouse gas emissions, weakening protection of Norwegian nature, increasing material consumption and investing massively in Norway’s continuing to be one of the world’s biggest beneficiaries of global warming. The budget presented today is claimed to cut 650 000 tonnes in greenhouse gas emissions next year — approximately. It's an impressive number, but it has to be compared to that number that everyone now has to learn by heart, the magical 800,000 tons. There is as much as Norway has to cut every year from 2017 in order to keep the promises that all parties in this room have made. It is only the budget of the Green Party that does this. The budget of the other parties is not close. And this is only in the non-quota sector. Of course, we also have to cut at least the same amount in the quota sector – that is, the oil sector. The evaluation of the year’s budget by researchers suggests that the real cut may be 200000 tonnes. This also means that this budget builds up additional climate debt, which means that we may have to cut 900 000 tonnes in 2018, or 1 million tonnes in 2019, and parties that believe it is unrealistic and impossible to cut 800000 tonnes in 2017 should reflect on how realistic and possible they believe it will be to cut 1.5 million tonnes in 2022. In addition, the overall climate impact of the 2017 budget remains unclear because there is still a lack of carbon budget and climate accounting with a climate impact of the entire budget. The danger is that Norway will not be able to cut emissions overall next year either. In any case, this budget is not close to meeting the climate agreement. Unfortunately, we must conclude that the Right and Advance Party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, have lost four years, not when the objectives of the climate budget and thus have broken its greatest climate and environmental promise in the cooperation agreement. In addition, many of the green measures in the budget agreement will be implemented a second time – in 2018, in 2050, if the blue-blue wins the election, etc. The sea wind will have to be investigated once again, and more. That is why it is, of course, great that the budget determines that we are now going to have a significantly better climate law than the government has proposed. It is absolutely necessary to have a systematic implementation of climate action, which has so far been lacking by all Norwegian government budgets. But this climate law is not supposed to work in this period, and barely in the next. In other words, the Right Party and the Advance Party continue to sabotage the implementation of a climate law in Norway. On the other hand, the cooperation parties do not hesitate for a second to continue dumping even more taxpayers’ billions into oil subsidies in order to prevent oil companies from taking risks by opening up new fields that would otherwise be unprofitable. We get new highways, which eat even more nature and food, and the big forest conservation effort we're still waiting for. The Environment Party of the Greens is responding to this. Our alternative state budget takes advantage of the opportunities offered by a green shift. We're going to bring everyone in the green shift. We're going to make it more beneficial for ordinary people to choose green solutions than those that pollute. We cut VAT on fruit, green, repairs and reuse and increase on other consumption. We stimulate job creation and start-up by cutting employers' taxes, and our programme for a coast free creates an arena for new business development in shipbuilding and aquaculture, new bio-industries, services, ports and maritime transport. These are the effects of a responsible and effective climate policy, for an effective climate policy is about much more than carbon. It is about driving the Norwegian economy, Norwegian business, research and innovation, transport and infrastructure planning, urban planning and building standards, public procurement and, in particular, the everyday policies of municipalities and counties in the green and sustainable direction. That is why, among other things, we are proposing the rapid roll-out of a nationwide charging network for electric cars, and at the same time a package that makes electric car purchases beneficial for people with low incomes across the country, combining it with a climate-rewarding scheme that rewards those with the lowest emissions and puts costs on those who pollute. It is a quick way to get the emission effect that the other batches do not deliver. With a fee increase of 5 kroner on petrol and diesel, well to notice in a market where prices already vary by 3 kroner over a week, we can distribute about 1,500 kroner directly to each citizen of the year. The Budget Agreement of the Cooperation Party contains good proposals for climate and environment, which we would like to vote on subsidiaryly. But we have to vote against them because they are packed with the total budget, which we believe takes the country too slowly towards a green shift and does too little for nature and the environment. In addition, many of the proposals are very non-binding and are pushed far beyond the next majority period. That is why the Green Party is presenting 18 loose proposals today. We ask the government to phase out oil subsidies, introduce a climate reward scheme according to the Environment Party De Greens model, link increased integration requirements for biodiesel to thorough professional assessments of sustainability, and we ask the government to plan the 2018 budget based on the Norwegian economy being within the tolerance limits of nature. We sharpen and concrete several of the government's own proposals, and we set deadlines, so we stop pushing things in front of us. Not least, we are tightening up and putting into practice the proposal for a new climate law, so that it can take effect from 2017. I ask all parties that have ambitions to strengthen Norwegian climate policy, to look at and vote for that proposal. If the cooperation parties had kept what they promised, the 2017 budget would put the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens under a hard pressure. It is important to remember that the oil policy of the Progress Party and the Right is the Labour Party's oil policy. It is important to bear in mind that the Workers' Party is the party for snowmobile free slip, the reintroduction of lead pollution in Norwegian nature and a worse wolf policy than the government itself proposed. It is important to bear in mind that the tractor-green nature creators in the Centre Party have a worse climate budget than the Right and Advance Party. The green shift comes to Norway when there is a competitive factor between red and blue blocks. That is why the Green Party is challenging both sides, and this year's state budget and hurlumheia around it all point to how important it is. I'm addressing the suggestions we've been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e936	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e943	Last week the representative Rasmus Hansson said to Dagbladet: «Now we've got four years without emission cuts. It is a policy that we in Europe share only with Bulgaria.’ In addition, the representative said: «In addition to the obvious, that the process has been astonishingly chaotic and planless, it is very sad, for it was now that we were promised the great changes to a green shift.» It went on to say: ‘The MDG representative believes that the Left and Christian People’s Party has behaved foolishly, if they thought it was possible to achieve sustainable development, with the Advance Party and the Right in Government.’ The opinions included:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘It’s very stupid to sell their loyalty to a big party, and then try to get a green policy.’ In the speech we heard the representative taking the hat off and congratulating the Left and Christian People's Party on a budgetary settlement, but at the same time he underlined that it is the Environment Party of the Greens' budget that takes the environment most seriously, as I understood it. What would the representative do in the same situation as the Left and Christian People's Party, as they did not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e970	Thank you for the question. The Greens would do the same as we did with the Labour Party in Oslo. We would have put environmental requirements in advance, we would have ensured that the major environmental obligating ambitions were included in a cooperation agreement that was inevitable, and we would have ensured that the implementation of the measures started one day, as it is now in Oslo, in what has become a good cooperation between the SV, the Workers' Party and the Green Party. We still believe that there is a policy that must be followed also to the right, because we believe that the Right understands power just as well as the Workers' Party, is just as happy in taboos as the Workers' Party and thus willing to move its policy there when it becomes necessary, and that will be when the requirements are clear enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e978	I would first like to thank the representative Hansson for his recognition of the budgetary unity, and I would like to focus on the reinforced climate law that is now in agreement. Here, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have been united, and we now have a law that takes care of the most important – an annual carbon budget, the climate targets are to be numerically fixed, measurable, reportable and involve a progression from the previous targets. The Climate Act is very close to the proposal proposed by the Green and Christian People's Party. My question is: Does the representative Hansson agree with that reflection?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e987	I agree with the representative that it is a good description of a climate law that is now being given. My big concern is that the government and the cooperation parties do not use the opportunity to implement it when they have the power to do so. What is contained in the proposal is that this climate law must be introduced and implemented by someone else, or at least by a later government than we have today, rather than being implemented now, when it is clearly, as it follows from the budget presented, more than ever needed. So the description and the legal text are good, but the introduction suffers from the same thing as a terrible lot of other climate policies, namely, that it was pushed into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e992	There are many isolated issues where the Green Party and the Progress Party have come together. I can mention, for example: Animal police, and tomorrow it might seem that we can find together in the case of DAB. But largely we disagree, whether in terms of tax, level of taxes or transport policy. I record that this weekend the Environment Party had the Green Country Meeting. They came up with news that they do not want to cooperate with the Progress Party in government. Then I wonder, from us in the Advancement Party, Was it meant as a threat or as a joyous novelty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e999	To the extent that the Progress Party believes it is a joy to avoid dealing with a party that actually takes future seriously, I think it is absolutely fine that the Progress Party is pleased about it. I may not be so surprised either. If, on the other hand, the Progress Party wants to join in on what is the necessary direction for Norwegian policy, then the Progress Party should be concerned that the Green Party notes that the policy which the Progress Party has taken the opportunity to pursue over the last three years is so far away from the development of Norwegian society that the Green Party – after keeping the door open for quite a long time – is now giving up at the National Governing Council in Narvik, and said: we have no faith in this, we are looking for cooperation with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1004	I have to admit that I've been a little confused when I've listened to Rasmus Hansson's comment on the budgetary process, because he hung on the left to break the negotiations because of the climate, but commended them after they had reached the goal because of the climate. I don't understand. We are not close to achieving the reductions — not 800,000 tonnes, but 2 million tonnes per year — in order to achieve the national climate targets we have, namely the 2020 targets. I have a question because Rasmus Hansson says he thinks the legal text for which the Christian People's Party and the Left have been passed is good. However, the point is that the legal text promoted by the Green Party today opens up the possibility that the national targets for Norway for 2030 and beyond can be met by purchasing EU quotas. Isn't the whole thing about the climate law gone if you do exactly that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1011	I don't have any problems giving people a pat on their shoulders when they've done a tough political process and come to terms, even though I don't necessarily agree or am too excited about the result. With regard to the climate legislation and the opening up of flexible mechanisms in the EU, it is for us to recognise that there are certain flexibilitys that can be used rationally and rationally. But I don't think the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is particularly in doubt about, after having heard the Greens for a few years, that we are a party that makes inevitable demands that everything that makes sense to cut off in Norway should be taken in Norway. If there are flexibility that is rational to exploit, and as SV is likely to be rational to exploit, the Green Party does not see any reason to be so orthodox that we set an absolute line towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1018	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1023	There have been demanding negotiations on next year's government budget. It's taken time, and all four cooperation parties have gone a long way to reach an agreement on the state budget for the year we're about to enter into. Let me take this opportunity to thank all those who have stood by and contributed to this consensus. In the examination of the budget for the current year, it was agreed with the cooperation parties that the Government of the State Budget for 2017 should submit a proposal for a green tax shift, with measures that reinforce climate reconciliation and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That consensus took the parties seriously and followed up in their draft budget. The consensus that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left came into being this weekend means that the ambitions for climate and environment are further lifted. Christian People's Party and Left have put their climate and environmental stamp on the state budget for 2017. At the same time, I am pleased that this agreement ensures many important investments for the Progress Party. The much-mentioned car package has been fixed during the negotiations and consists of the agreement. Consensus strengthens families, security, well-being, transport and infrastructure – many areas that matter to people, no matter where you live in the country. The government provided a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. The budget adopted today by the Stortinget reinforces this and will solve several of the challenges people most face today, and prepares us for what is coming. Our main challenge is to create new, profitable jobs in the private, competitive sector. We need more jobs that contribute to the state budget, not more jobs that live on the state budget. For this reason, the government is betting on growth-enhancing tax reliefs. It increases the competitiveness of Norwegian business and makes it more profitable to invest and work in Norway. That is why we are investing in infrastructure, research and innovation. It will increase the skills of the population, strengthen innovation and reduce the cost of transport to business. In this way, we can improve the basis of tomorrow's industries and facilitate increased growth and employment in the private sector. On our guard, we are faced with the greatest oil price drop of 30 years. It is not surprising that such a case creates challenges for Norwegian business. Oil companies have had to cut costs and demand towards suppliers in the mainland economy has fallen sharply. In particular, in petroleum-related industries in the South and West, unemployment has increased. Safe jobs for even more people are the government's most important job. For this reason, the government has actively used fiscal policy to support employment, to dampen the increase in unemployment and to facilitate migration. The 2017 budget contains a targeted package of measures to combat unemployment in the South and West and in the most affected sectors of 4 billion. kr. Overall, the government’s proposals for the 2017 government budget contribute to an increase in demand for goods and services corresponding to 0.4 pst. of the value creation of the mainland economy. We see that the policy is working. The Norwegian economy is on its way up. The deterioration of the crown and moderate wage growth are conducive to new growth in competitive business. Low interest rates and active budgetary policies raise domestic demand. New national accounts figures support the picture of the recovery of the economy. Employment increased by 1,500 persons in the third quarter, after an increase of 1 000 persons in the second quarter. The Labour Force Survey shows stable unemployment this year at around 4.8 pst. The recorded unemployment rate has also been stable for so long this year. Questionnaires and mood indicators suggest that positive developments will continue. Business managers report an increase in production and brighter prospects, and households are more optimistic about the future. I have known this optimism myself during my visits to communities and businesses around the country, and it is not unfounded. The oil price fluctuates, but has been significantly higher in recent months than when it was at its lowest, last winter. Together with the positive signs we see in the economy, the danger of a severe setback in the Norwegian economy now appears significantly less than when I was here last year and we debated the budget for the current year. I note that some criticise the government for spending too much oil money. However, the alternative budgetary proposals show slight differences. The big difference between us and the Workers' Party is that they propose large tax increases in a demanding time and will spend everything on increased public expenditure. It's a misguided policy. It does not contribute to conversion and it does not enhance growth capacity. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, an overall financial committee agreed that the increased use of oil money should go to areas that increase the growth capacity of the economy. We mentioned tax relief, transportation and knowledge in particular. This government is taking it seriously. We invest in the future, in our children, in tomorrow's jobs. We have used more of the space of action in the budgets for these growth-promoting purposes than the previous government did. In the current situation of Norway and the Norwegian economy, these efforts are essential. In the 2017 budget, the government has provided a budgetary impetus that is in line with the average since 2001. The use of oil money corresponds to 3 pst. by State pension funds abroad. In view of the fact that the Norwegian economy has experienced the strongest oil price drop in several decades, it has to be said to be good within the guidelines of Stortinget. This is how we take Norway through the long-term transition and ensure our well-being. Overall, economic policy is now making a strong effort to put out of work and to create new, profitable jobs. The worst is hopefully behind us, but that doesn't mean we can update the Norwegian economy. In the South and West, the situation is still difficult, and for many of those who have lost their jobs, and for their families, everyday life is still tough. At the same time, we know that less aid from the oil industry is a lasting structural change in the Norwegian mainland economy, which cannot be met only by short-term measures. Therefore, the government also responds to long-term migration and growth measures. It is the key for Norway to get strengthened out of the demanding shifts in which we stand. The budget adopted today by the Stortinget provides for a strong effort to strengthen our social security network for vulnerable children, for young people who need help to master their everyday lives, for adults who are at risk of falling out of work. We will create tomorrow's jobs by investing in knowledge, research and innovation. We're building more roads, and we're building more tracks. We reduce taxes and taxes on businesses and people in order to make it pay to create, invest and work in Norway. This is how we take Norway safely through the long-term transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1058	It is well in place to start by congratulating Minister of Finance Siv Jensen that she and the Progress Party have won with the irresponsible use of money on which the party voted. There were three cooperation parties who took the initiative to check that it would not be used too much, but the Progress Party can clapp on the shoulder and congratulate itself with full success in that area. Worse, however, is the crux of the Progress Party, because the Progress Party did not go to the elections on record in toll collection, nor to increase the fees for people most by billions, nor should the tax cuts just happen to the most prosperous. But this was the result when we have the phase after four budgets. Does the Party Party leader agree with its Vice-Chairman, who says that it would be equally good to resign in this round, so that one could ‘be in opposition, and start again and grow Frp 100 percent’? [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1065	Let me first say that this government has been conducting a responsible economic policy throughout this big period, and that is what we intend to continue with. It has been quite right to use fiscal policy, along with all the other instruments we have at our disposal, at a time when we have met the strongest oil price drop in 30 years. If you go thoroughly through the Workers' Party's alternative budget, the difference is negligible compared to the high rhetoric used by the Workers' Party in the public word change. With the budget adopted today, tax cuts of about 21 billion have been made. kr. It is in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which each year proposes to increase the overall tax burden by several billion dollars. As for Per Sandberg, I think what he's trying to say is that it's challenging to sit in government. The Progress Party takes responsibility and is comfortable to run the country for a demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1073	It is a pleasure to hear the Minister of Finance talk about taxes, but the so-called car package blocked agreement in the budget negotiations for almost two months, if we are to believe the parties that have negotiated. The party of progress stated, even before the budget was presented, ultimatum that the package should not be touched. The Prime Minister has now boasted that the Progress Party has been involved in proposing the biggest tax increases on petrol and diesel in ten years. I think it's a compliment that falls into good soil in the group meetings of the Progress Party. Then to the budget agreement. It appears that at least 20 pst. the fuel sold in 2020 shall be biofuel. According to the calculations made by the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, this will result in an increase in the diesel price of 74 øre in excess of the 35 øre Advance Party has already proposed. In Political Quarter this morning, the Prime Minister was asked if she has tricked the Progress Party into higher diesel prices. Then she answered yes. Then I have to ask you, is the Minister of Finance cheating?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1080	I also heard Political Quarters today, and I didn't realize that was what the Prime Minister said – and at least we've cleared up that issue. Let me first say that when the Prime Minister and I presented the proposal for this much-discussed package, before we presented the state budget, the wording was that we thought it was as far as it was proper to go into a year's budget. We still believe that. In addition to that package, we, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have come to an agreement in other important areas of climate and environment that strengthen climate reconciliation and that help to draw this in the right direction. In the case of biofuels, I have recorded that there is very little disagreement in the Stortning about ambitions about an escalation, but I want to add that yes, the consensus that the four cooperation parties have come to is ambitious. But it means that we're going to have a production. In the absence of production, it is also not possible to realise increased trading requirements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1089	It would have been a bit tempting to go further on the interpretations of what Per Sandberg has said, according to Siv Jensen. I'll let that lie. What I'm not going to leave is really what the Council of State has often met here in the Chamber, that under this government there have become so many bureaucrats, that there have become too many who rule and not operate with what they should, namely, help people, whether they are in the hospital or other services. Then we have an efficiency reform that is now being criticised for doing what you have previously asked for. My question is then: Based on the experience of the efficiency reform, which is not new, does it have any basis to say that this goes beyond the direct services of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1094	Although the representative Syversen did not ask, but referred to Per Sandberg, I must nevertheless be allowed to say that when you sit in government, you must always be prepared that things can happen that you have to take the consequences of. I think that is a good summary of what Per Sandberg has said in an interview today. So to the ABE reform – the red tape and efficiency reform. I'm very pleased with the question about it. What's most amazing is that no one had suggested introducing such a reform before we did. It is an efficiency measure that has been implemented in many countries, in fact with stronger lye than what we have foreseen in Norway, but it works. It works because there are completely different demands on state agencies to give better priority to their problem solving. If you didn't think it was possible to streamline and simplify the public sector, you wouldn't have set such a requirement either. I believe it is, and there is no reason to believe that the growth of activity, for example in hospitals, which has been part of the debate here today, will be lower as a result of the fact that we are also demanding more efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1101	There were 1539 new bureaucrats employed in the department, directorate and central administration, so it hasn't been very successful, but that's not what I'm going to ask questions about. There was a new record in the number of bureaucrats we celebrated in the questionnaire here six months ago. We thought it was generous, but the Progress Party was proud of it. Now there is a new record in fee increase that is the new record of the Progress Party. It goes from record to record, now with an increase of 53 cents in diesel taxes, because that's what you're actually adding to the VAT and the price adjustment – 53 cents in an increased fee. Then there's a compensation put in that there's going to be lower toll rates some places. My specific question is: if you take, for example: Finnfast and Hardangerbrua, which are typical district projects with 150 kroner in tolls, when will the toll rates go down on concrete toll projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1108	I find it difficult to deal with the Central Party, because in the Central Party's budget for the current year, they proposed to increase fuel taxes quite a bit – in the current year – while in their draft budget for the next year they have suddenly abandoned that idea. It's a little hard to know what the Center Party thinks from one year to the next, but let it lie. I know that it has been a difficult decision for the Progress Party. That is why it was also important for the Progress Party to facilitate the compensation of drivers by reducing the annual tax and, not least, by reducing toll rates in districts. I hope that the Senterpartiet and Schlagsvold Vedum think it is a good measure if we can also put the toll tariffs down on toll projects around the districts. This is especially where there is no alternative transport and accessibility, and that is why I think it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1115	Unlike the previous speaker, I have genuine respect and understanding for the process of the Progress Party, in view of the changes in the fees resulting from the 2017 budget. I also understand the symbolic power of the additional compensation on the cost side of the car package represents for the Progress Party, especially the symbolism of the new toll advance scheme to which the minister has now referred. What I still have trouble understanding is the logic and the effect of such a system, not least for the districts, and I hope that the minister can help clarify it in Stortinget. A crown smaller in tolls is, after all, a crown smaller than the necessary road construction in the same districts to be covered by the scheme. At that time, a marginally cheaper toll fee is a lean comfort when the need for means of transport is many times greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1122	I believe that the introduction to the representative Breivik illustrates some of the challenges we have faced in these negotiations. It has been about respecting the different positions and boundaries of the lots, and trying to find solutions that all four of them can stand in. I believe that we are clear, because we have had mutual respect for each other, and because we have been willing to grant each other concessions in areas that have been important to the various parties. So we've come up with good solutions. But this isn't about symbols. This is about reality. For us, it has been important to contribute to the fact that the taxing of the country's drivers does not go up next year, and I believe that we have succeeded. It's about how to tax. There is a difference between taxing use and taxing ownership. Together, we have also contributed to a fairly good and sensible conversion of the one-off fee for both the current year and next year, which helps to make it faster to replace a very old car park. That's good for safety and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1129	Based on the line of work, which the Progress Party is otherwise so concerned with when cutting off benefits: How clever does the Council of State feel it is from an equal opportunities policy perspective and an integration policy perspective to greatly increase cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1134	I respect that SV is against instruments that provide flexibility and freedom of choice in family policy. But at the same time, I respect that the parties on the non-socialist side are concerned about just that: flexibility, diversity and that families have different needs when it comes to how they behave in everyday life. For this reason, it has been important for us to strengthen child care and to strengthen the mechanisms to enable low-income families to have more reasonable access to good kindergartens in the future, while also recognising the feelings of many families: time pressure and the need to be a little more at home with their own children. I have no problem that this became part of the negotiated agreement between the four parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1139	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1145	By the end of 2016, many Northmen feel disturbed when they see developments in the world, close to us and a little further away: fellows suffering in devastating and insurgent wars in the Middle East, and a migration crisis affecting millions of children and adults. This year, political choices have also created uncertainty in the United States and Europe. We see growing tensions as a result of great social and economic differences. Frustration often turns against democracy and the ability of politicians to solve the most important tasks in people's lives. Politics becomes too many a distant game, far from everyday life. It is a dangerous sign of democracy when voters perceive that politics does not provide answers. We've done better in Norway. Norway is a good country to live in, for most people. But we're not protected. At home too, unemployment has increased and few new jobs are created. Insecurity in parts of the world of work is increasing. Differences are increasing — between rich and poor, between those with jobs and those without, between cities and countries. Greenhouse gas emissions are also rising. These are challenges Norway can face. Hardly any country has a better starting point. But there are tasks that require strong communities, good policy responses and safe political governance. What we have witnessed to this budget harvest is not safe political governance. One of the main tasks of the government is to ensure stability and predictability. Instead, we have had repeated violations of deadlines, intransigence and uncertainty. It is noteworthy that until the last hours before the agreement late on Saturday evening it was about fractures, possible cabinet issues and the government's departure. Immediate use of stuttering is now taking place. The Labour Party will vote in favour of its own alternative budget. Nevertheless, it is good that at last – overtime – agreement on a 2017 government budget was reached among the parties that make up the majority in this period. A complete civil collapse in the autumn had thrown Norway into a strenuous political crisis six months before a elections. Norway does not need such a crisis in these challenging times. Budget processes have gone from bad to worse in this period. We warned against this at the 2013 elections. The centre of gravity of Norwegian policy is not to the right of the Right. The normal thing in Norwegian policy is that cooperation on the right-hand side breaks down after a while. And the cooperation that had to be difficult has become even more difficult. It has become even more difficult as a result of what Hans Olav Syversen correctly refers to as a very little wise ultimatum from Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen about the so-called car package – an ultimatum from a minority government to the Stortinget. This is not the way to build trust between partners who are initially far apart. That's not how you run a country. Norway needs a new political majority to rule safely. We need a majority in this Chamber who can cooperate well on another policy. Today, we are discussing the last of the government's budgets before the elections. These are budgets that have contributed to: the high-recorded free space has reached its limit differences have increased; greenhouse gas emissions have gone in the wrong direction The budget deficit has been There is an eye-catching discharge of responsibility when the government itself says that its own use of oil money cannot continue. Today, the Labour Party is promoting its alternative state budget for 2017. We want a fairer policy that makes the country the most important thing in politics. Let me spend most of my time on the most important thing: work. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one. The main source of increased inequality in our society is employment: more are unemployed, more fall outside the ordinary working life, more experience job insecurity – short-term contracts, low-wage competition, social dumping and temporary employment. The proportion of the non-employed population is now at the highest in 20 years. In the 1970s, 5 pst stood. by men between 30 and 35 years of age out of working life. Now that's approaching 20 pst. It's alarming. If more jobs are to be created in Norway, the most important is a responsible economic policy. In our alternative budget, we reduce the withdrawal from the State pension fund abroad, among others. in order not to contribute to pressures on interest rates and exchange rates, which are essential for the competitiveness of the mainland industry. We are following up the corporate tax reform last year, which reduces the tax on businesses while at the same time providing the opportunity for a fairer tax policy. We're using that opportunity. We are proposing increased efforts to combat unemployment, especially towards the South and the West. Today, new Nav numbers came from Rogaland, showing the highest level of unemployment ever. The unemployment crisis is not over. We stimulate value creation by introducing two new value creation programmes in marine and land-based bioeconomy. We focus on a number of schemes to contribute to new jobs, including: in the form of increased support for the eco-innovation scheme in Enova, funds for a new accelerator programme for entrepreneurs and by increasing regional development funds. We strengthen the organisation of work, including: by raising the deduction from the trade union quota and by providing more money to the Labour Inspectorate and the Ecochrome. We invest more in competences – throughout our lives – through: increased appropriations for more teachers early in school increased apprenticeship grants for the professions start work on a wide range of skills reform, initially in the care of the elderly and the construction sector; Finally, we combine a more powerful policy for new jobs with a more powerful policy to cut greenhouse gas emissions, in line with Norway’s commitments in the Paris Agreement: increased means of electrification of the container CO 2 capture at Norcem, Yara and Klemetsrud increased commitment to the production of sustainable biofuels These are three of several examples. We'll take Norway's 40. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in earnest. We present in the budget a concrete plan for achieving those objectives. Yes, we keep that promise, also in other areas. Both the Right Party and the Workers' Party came before the elections in 2013 with entirely concrete promises of donations to the hospitals: 12 billion. kr more for hospitals over four years. We keep our hospital vows in our budget this year. Even when the Right and Advance Party presented their draft budget in October, it was clear that they would break this promise by billions. In the budget agreement kutter saw the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left nearly half a billion more dollars in the budgets of the hospitals. It's going to go out on those who work in hospitals, but most seriously, it's going to go out on patients. Finally, I visited Stavanger and Bergen on Friday. On my way out of the airport, I was stopped by a man in the security controls who so strongly pointed out to me and said, "All the shit in politics and on the Stortinget -- I'm losing interest. He's not alone. He is not the only one who has gained less confidence in politics through the fall because of the budgetary crisis that the government has brought us into. So Norway needs a new political majority that can rule safely. We need a majority in this room that has a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1239	The Labour Party asks us more priority in the budget before criticising the priorities we have done. But the Labour Party does not give priority to anything other than increased taxes in its alternative budget. They leave to Norwegian families and businesses to give priority to their budgets to make the budget of the Workers' Party go up. The Workers' Party proposes 10 billion. kr more in taxes in next year's budget, and in addition they have an unpaid tax bill of 22 billion. through measures they have voted in favour of in Stortinget. SV proposes 19 billion. kr more in tax until next year, and the Center Party proposes 8 billion. kr more in tax. The only thing the voters can be sure of is that the red-greens will greatly increase the taxes. Is increased taxes on people and business the answer to reducing unemployment and speeding up the transition to Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1246	No, that's not the answer, but when I hear the representative of Greece talking about these massive tax increases, I want to say, when the right puts the taxes down, it's moderate. When we put half up again, it's powerful. In the 2013 elections, Jan Tore Sanner promised that the right went to the elections on moderate tax reductions, especially on low and ordinary employee incomes. That promise has twice been broken, because the reductions have been strong, we must believe the representative of Greece, and they have not gone to them with low and usual wages. They have gone – very disparately – to them with most of the time. We believe that raising to focus more on measures against unemployment, more focused on the environment and climate investment, more focused on balancing differences and more focused on supporting hospitals should enable those of us with strong shoulders to pay something more. But it's very moderate, and if the relief to the representative of Greece is moderate, our increase is double moderate, because we're only going to reverse half of this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1255	We can record that the representative Gahr Støre, according to the budgetary unit, says to the media that now we can finally start discussing the policy. For us who have participated in these negotiations here in Stortinget, it is felt that we have been through over four weeks of intense political discussions. The State budget is, after all, perhaps the most important governance document the Stortinget is dealing with. Does the representative, Mr Gahr, really think that the Great Britain's negotiations on the State budget are not about politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1262	I have no doubt that the representative Limi has discussed politics, and his definition of politics has been about circling around a car package with 15 cents here and 35 cents there. You haven't spent the most time on the big problems. The discussion in the finance committee has probably been almost absent, and the others have had to wait for postponed deadlines and broken promises before we get a Saturday night a few hours into a Sunday to present our alternatives. I think it's the wrong use of resources in a big deal. The big issues we should discuss – the fight against unemployment that is now breaking down, climate action that really works, and how we put hospitals in a position to apply new technology – have been replaced by the representative Limi and his colleagues, who are on the way out and out of corridors after broken deadlines and can tell you that now comes a new deadline and a new deadline and a new deadline. If the real policy has happened there, I haven't been on it, and it hasn't shaped the discussions here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1271	I understand the frustration it has been to wait for this process. I also want to say that the unit didn't arrive a second too soon. The Labour Party has launched a separate waiting arrangement. There is a scheme for families with children who do not have children, i.e. that instead of cash support, the Workers' Party is considering a waiting arrangement. Does the representative Gahr Støre see that a bit of the same frustration that the opposition has now experienced – could not plan, could not have any foresight – will also affect the families of children, because they do not know what to do? Suddenly they get a nursery place, and then they have to stick to it. With today's cash support scheme, they can plan and determine when they want to go out to work. Does the representative Gahr see the problem and frustration that a waiting regime is about to bring to the families of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1280	Close up in my family, a generation down, I have followed a waiting period that is quite painful – that is, having a child who was born late in the year and therefore not having a nursery place. You go and wait, and you can wait for months, because of this one recording. At that time these families should be compensated. What most families want is to have nursery places when the child is one year old. For this reason, the Workers' Party has ensured that during the waiting period until kindergarten is provided, the economic interests should be safeguarded. I believe that there is still some of the important promise to get good kindergartens with enough people, high quality and security for parents, so that the large, large majority of parents who want to have children in kindergarten, with all the kindergartens that are positive, not least for integration, can get that security. And while they're waiting, they're going to be sure that the economy is well maintained, and it's going to be with the Labour Party's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1292	We already knew four years ago that the Norwegian economy was vulnerable, and that we had to get more legs on. We were getting a two-part economy, how many industries lived in the shadow of the oil. The government started early the conversion of Norway. Research went up, taxes went down. The downturn on the road and the track was reduced, and investments were high in record terms. The big money went to investment in knowledge, transport, innovation and growth-promoting tax relief. We prepared Norway at a time when oil and gas would play a smaller role than before for our economic growth. The half of the price of oil in 2014 made the conversion even more acute. The government acted resolutely, and now we see that our solutions work. Hopefully, availability has reached the top and is on its way down to large parts of the country, while productivity is on its way up. Records of enterprises are being created, and competitiveness is being strengthened. In the 2017 state budget, we take further steps to create more jobs: We lower the taxes for those who are going to create the new jobs. As of 2017, the tax on income and corporate tax will be 24 p.m., down from 27 p.m. under the previous government. The investment in industrial research and innovation has been strengthened by 2.8 billion. kr, including the TAX FUNN scheme. It provides more research and development in industry and the basis for new products and services. Only since 2013 has industry increased its research by 25 pst. The due on the road and the track continues to go down, not up as it did under the Workers' Party. The effort on the road and the track has increased by more than 50 pst. in the last four years. Now the choice is between a Right-led government that will create more, and an Labour Party government that will tax more. If you're going to take the Workers' Party election vows seriously, you're going to have to raise taxes by up to 33 billion. kr. This is the last Norwegian job and business that needs to be done. What Norway needs is a government that continues the strong effort to create more jobs that contribute to the state budget, not more jobs that live on the state budget. Norway needs a government that implements targeted, but reversible, measures to combat unemployment in the south and west. And Norway needs a government that says yes to create more jobs, not no. The alternative now on the left is a Workers' Party that will increase taxes, an SV and an MDG that say no to oil and gas extraction, no to the mineral industry and no to build more roads for business, and a Center Party that will scrap the EEA Agreement, an agreement that ensures that we can sell our fish, our timber and our gas to Europe. Norway needs a yes policy, not a no policy. The 2017 budget is also a budget for more knowledge in the school. That's why we're doing a teacher's vow to get better teachers and more education in school. In 2017, we are correcting the fact that more than 5,000 teachers can be offered continuing training. We introduce five-year primary school teacher education, and we prioritise, in good cooperation on the budget, over half a billion dollars for early efforts. In this context, I note that the main priority of the Workers' Party is slow efforts, as they are continuing to invest in high school teachers, who, according to the SSB report last week, have no effect on students' learning. The 2017 budget is also a budget for reducing health cows and waiting times in hospitals. Since 2013, health cows have been reduced by 80,000. New sites have expanded the provision of care and quality has increased. As of 1 January, even more people who make a major voluntary effort can benefit from a better care scheme. I am also proud of the promise we have made for the addicts and the poor, and I will particularly praise the Christian People's Party and the Left for contributing to this. The world is marked by uncertainty and by a new security policy situation. In 2017, we propose a large increase to strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities, and the Stortinget has, by a large majority in the past autumn, adopted a strong long-term commitment through the long-term defence plan. In addition, we strengthen the police, both with more police officers and with two new helicopters. Not only is this a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. It is also a budget for significant cuts in emissions. I want to thank the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party for demanding but successful negotiations. There have been some intensive days and weeks, and there are many who deserve to pay tribute for the efforts that have been made. We can be proud of the result. The greenest budget in times has become even greener. The emissions reductions have been calculated to exceed 600 000 tonnes in 2017 and to exceed 11 million tonnes in 2030. And this is just the beginning, because next year's budget must also be the greenest of times, we're going to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Four years ago, we promised the country a new course. I am proud that health cows have fallen, that learning pressure is rising, and that Norway is now better equipped to meet the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1344	Instead, we could hear that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, was very clear that the red tape and efficiency reform is working. It is interesting to hear, especially because the same Minister of Finance answered written questions in the following way when she was asked about the impact of the ABE reform: ‘However, the reform is not followed by a reporting system and we cannot therefore determine the direct effects of the measures implemented.’ This is what the Minister of Finance says about a cut that in connection with this agreement, among other things. means a distance of 400 million. SEK from hospitals. One sees the corresponding cut for school, police, and one sees it throughout all areas. What I'm asking is: what kind of finance minister does the representative of Greece agree with, the finance minister who stood here and said that we could document the effect of cuts, or the finance minister who concluded that one can't actually follow the effect of the cuts that one here implements?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1354	I agree with the Minister of Finance who is concerned that we manage taxpayers' money in a good way and that we ensure efficiency and red tape. We do that through the ABE reform. It contributes to the strengthening of state agencies, the public sector. I see that in the hall is Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, and in the last period we sat in the same committee. We always had the same question to the municipalities when we met them: how much have you done to make the municipality more efficient? What numbers have you set? No, there were many people who hadn't. But then our question was: why didn't the red-green government have any ambitions or goals to make the public sector more efficient? Of course, it was because there was a cross-press between trade unions and different interests. However, the point is that this government imposes requirements for efficiency improvement in the public sector. It is necessary, and that is good, and it ensures more efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1359	Throughout this ageing period, the Christian People's Party has prioritised early school efforts. We wanted to secure all children enough time with their teacher in the important first years of school, and we wanted to take it seriously that three out of four teachers say they have too little time for each student. That's why we've been working to get more teachers to the youngest students, and that's why the Christian People's Party wants a national standard of teacher's density. The last thing we haven't done yet, but with the budget we're about to adopt now, we've put most of the money on the table during this big time period. The municipalities are now receiving permanent earmarked funds for more than 1700 teaching positions in the 1st to 4th. class. It's brilliant, and it's enough to introduce a standard of teacher's density in primary school that ensures a maximum of 16 students per teacher. The right has been involved in this through budgetary conciliation in the last few years, and it was nice to hear the representative from Greece stressing just this effort in their contribution. My question is whether the Right now will also be positive to introduce such a standard of teacher's density in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1364	We have had slightly different models of early intervention, but the important thing now is that considerable funds are being invested in this. It's set of nearly half a billion dollars extra next year, and the Christian People's Party has all the honor that they have prioritised it. The right and government have also prioritised early efforts. As far as norms are concerned, I don't want to discuss them now, because we know that there are different measures that can work to get the most out of the teaching resources in high school and high school. But the important thing is that we work together on the important work of strengthening the learning environment of children by giving the least a good start in life, and there I think the Christian People's Party and the Right have a lot in common, and also in other parts of family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1371	It's been a bit of a remarkable budget harvest. The size has not had all the world's time to evaluate the overall economic structure. In fact, one and a half days we've had to evaluate the overall financial situation, and that's not much. There was also trouble in the years before. Two years ago, we had a bag charge that one had to pay after a few months. Last year we had an airline passenger fee that probably had greater consequences than the Right and Advance Party had intended, among others. the closure of Rygge Airport. This year we also have imaginative invasions. We've got a 500-million hospital kit. kr that no one knows how to turn out. We have a very creative accounting for phase shifting road projects in the districts. Nobody knows exactly what that means. It's possible that means that a forwarder and budgeter with tolls and defers the government bill to later – what do I know? The question is right and easy: can we be sure that all proposals are sufficiently quality assured and that we do not end up in the situation we have been in in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1378	I think there have been absolutely necessary rounds to ensure that all the proposals that are now being adopted are implemented in a good way. I noticed that the representative Arnstad was a bit critical of the pace we had in the implementation of the budget negotiations. Well, it's been challenging. We have discussed important things, and we have discussed in particular the overall goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. When I look at the opposition's budget lines, I see that the Central Party has turned its back on car policy. They do not want any increases in fuel taxes. The working party will increase the diesel price by 15 cents. SV will increase by SEK 1 and the Green Party by 500 ears, i.e. Five quarts. So I wonder, when we took a long time, how long would the opposition have spent agreeing? It is possible that Christmas ribs had become cold and the New Year rockets had been fired before you had agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1383	I understand that the representative of Greece has spent a long time discussing the climate, because he should admit that there are the results that count. To measure the results of the government's climate policy, it has been possible to turn a decline in greenhouse gas emissions into an upturn. It must be regarded as a victory for the Progress Party, but hardly a victory for decent environmentalists in Greece's own party. My question to Trond Helleland will be about this. I see that now the government and the cooperation parties have started with creative bookkeeping. Now you leave out the negative emission increases, but you only show the emissions that are positive. Well, that's a little bit like what Enron was doing when they were going to describe their future, and it's called creative bookkeeping. My question is simply: is it so that Greece can guarantee that next year the CO 2 emissions in Norway will decrease?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1391	Being taught about the bookkeeping of a lot that hardly knows what the word «booking» means is quite interesting. SV's alternative budget is very imaginative and requires a massive tax increase for most people. We have done the best calculations we can, and believe that we get the greenhouse gas emissions down by approx. 600000 tonnes of CO 2 next year. But it has proved to be hard to get these numbers into place. If we take the two comparable sizes, the Right and the Workers' Party, or the Government Parties, the Cooperation Parties and the Workers' Party, and compare the emissions up to 2030, the calculations we have made show that the Workers' Party cut will be 9.1 million tonnes, while our cut will be about 9.1 million tonnes. 11 million tonnes. So I believe that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås should perhaps look at who he should trust in in climate policy. I believe that this government and the cooperation parties deliver significantly more than the SV did in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1404	The government presented its budget in October — a budget that focuses on work, activity and change. The changes that are now being adopted will not be reflected in that focus. We see a country that in many ways is very different from region to region in how unemployment and business have evolved. We have seen that the South and Western countries have suffered significantly in recent years as a result of a significant fall in oil and gas prices. This has led to major challenges in those regions. It is then important to ensure that the budgetary arrangements are adapted to the situation of individuals. At the same time, we actually see, especially in the interior and in other parts of the country, that unemployment has either fallen or remained stable. It presents a government with clear challenges to what action to take. For this reason, the package of measures proposed by the government in its budget includes clear and unambiguous measures for the areas and regions that need it. If only general measures had been taken — not eaten, as the government has done — this would not have the effect we are now seeing. We actually see a trend in which the decline in employment has either stopped or at least has a small increase for the better. We see a positive trend, and let's hope that trend continues. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that the current budget for voting be adopted as it stands. At the same time, the budget to be adopted is an incredibly good district budget. It's a bit significant that when you run and discuss the budget in this room and some of them, and whether people can live in the whole country, you can't see that far beyond the Central East region. In fact, if you're going out in the district, the buses may not go after noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Or there's no railway, and tram is a nice thing to see when you get to Oslo or Bergen, or you see the track in Trondheim. Everyone else, who's out there, is totally dependent on the road. You depend on the road to get your goods to a market. You depend on the way to get to the store and to drive the kids to school. You actually don't have the same possibilities out there that you have especially here in Oslo. That's why it's important to think about people living in the district as well, and then we have to provide a good infrastructure. The government has put in place a number of good measures relating to infrastructure, research and innovation. We see a fishing and aquaculture industry that is constantly setting new records, precisely because a policy that has kept the crown low, strengthened competitiveness and kept prices down, and that gives a market that works. The last thing you need in such a situation that we have found ourselves in is a higher tax burden. When SV proposes 19 billion. Tax increases are not exactly an invitation to create more jobs — rather, on the contrary. We have been through a harvest that has been marked by much discussion. Yeah, it's been tough negotiations. But it was just supposed to be missing. The government parties had their starting point in the budget, while, of course, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party would have a positive impact on their heart matters. That's just the way it has to be. That's democracy. For those of us who have actually taken the time to read Jens Stoltenberg's book, it has been very interesting to read about the inner life of the red-green government. The big difference now is that we actually have an open democratic debate related to the individual elements. It's not in the back of the big debates today. No, now it's actually happening in the open, and we can get a good discussion. There are also some who have claimed that this is historical in a previous phase of leadership. I will quote from the financial debate on 6 November 1986, when Gro Harlem Brundtland said the following: ‘For this reason, as last year’s financial debate, we stand without clarification of the budget line through the financial position.’ I don't think it's the first time. I don't think that's going to be the last one either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1429	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1434	The discussions that this government has had with the Cooperation Party have been no more open than the fact that the party leaders in the Cooperation Party have been picked up at different times in the boiler rescuing down here to an unknown address. We note that it is marketed as a kind of openness, but practice is something else. My question is that the party that Nesvik represents has marketed that they want zero tolls. Now it's going to be 33 billion. Tolls. They said the petrol and diesel charges were going down – it's increasing. And the party for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes has also said that the fees would generally be lowered. Now they're increasing by almost 3.4 billion. kr. My question is, how is it for Nesvik to be responsible for this reverse operation to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1443	When it comes to where some meetings are held, I'm not going to comment on it. If there's something that hasn't been missing, there's transparency related to the element you've discussed. At least that's for sure. I am very proud of what we have done in the government. We have had a historic investment in infrastructure, which has also been a key issue for the Progress Party. Yes, there have been more tolls in some areas. Of course it does. And the Labour Party has voted for every one of them, and made sure that it has come into place through the majority who have been in this Chamber. We've got a reinforcement of the school. We have been given a boost in the transport sector, as I have said. We have been strengthened in the field of integration and asylum. I'm incredibly proud of what we've done in government, and it's going to be more of that, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1450	Yes, we got a budget in October. The state budget for 2017 was to be a budget in the name of the climate, as a follow-up to last year's agreement on a green shift. But before this day in October, we realized that this would not be the case. The progress team is due to be involved in increasing the fuel and diesel tax today, but it does little to help when you also overcompensate the fossil cars and give back more than you take. The target was a green shift. That's why my question is: Does the representative Nesvik think that overcompensation for fossil cars is a good start on a forced green shift? Yeah, we're having people live in Hardanger. Yes, we need people living in the Østerdalen and in our beautiful Lofoten – but is it a good start?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1457	It's been a very necessary start. In fact, we depend on those who depend on the car and drive the most cars, and we can afford it. It can not only be that they have a garage in the Holmenkol lock that should be able to have a car and get to and from. It's also dependent on out in the districts. Therefore, it is important to compensate this properly, so that the increase in the cost does not become too high for those who are completely dependent on the car. In fact, it is not that everyone can drive an electric car in a collective field in Eastern Europe. It is not that everyone can take the trick to work, or take the track to work. Some people are actually totally dependent on the car. That's why it's important to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1462	In the last year, we've seen repeated cases where the police don't deal with serious criminal incidents. The fire department comes first. There has been stabbing on asylum recipients – the fire department came, the police didn't. A dead man was found in a town in the West — the police had no way of coming. They asked those who found him to send one mms. And recently there's been a terrible incident in Notodden, where a man was stabbed and killed. The same thing happens again. It's the fire service that comes first, and it has to sort out the situation. The police are coming. Is the Progress Party satisfied with the fact that it is always gone, over and over again, so that the police have such a poor local preparedness that they come last, and that it is the fire service that takes the police tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1467	No, we're not. Therefore, it is also important that this particular government can continue to strengthen the police. This government has provided a significant boost to the justice sector. That is why it is important to implement the near-police reform, because it is actually about transferring personnel to active service out there, where people are, through active patrols, so that you can get there faster. That's the whole idea. That's why the answer is no, we're not satisfied – and that's why we want to improve it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1472	One sometimes gets the impression that when the budget negotiations have now arrived in port, the Progress Party has given itself and lost, and the Left and so on have won – or vice versa. But when it comes to the problem, there's no person or any party that's taken the bill for this. It's the common people who do. Sickhouses – those who need hospitals, those who work in hospitals – pay a large part of the bill today because one has found peace in the camp. Already hospitals are being imposed on new tasks without extra means. Medisinar will be transferred from the population to the operational budget. Intervention recipients are transferred without coverage, and new forms of treatment are introduced without compliance. Newborns and mothers are formerly printed in municipalities that cannot follow them closely enough, and the golden rule is broken year after year. Then the state budget comes with a click – 400 million new dollars in cuts. Can Nesvik guarantee that this does not affect treatment supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1477	Now I have 14 years in the Health Committee and have also been the head of that committee, so I've been a little bit involved in what's going on in the health care system. The representative of Fylkesnes’ own batch abolished the golden rule within the hospitals. This government has reintroduced it linked to the growth of psychiatry and alcohol in view of the somatic environment. Then I would have been the representative, I would have walked a little quietly in the doors. In terms of efficiency reform, it's actually about making things smarter, doing things better. It's not going to affect the patient's offer, but we have to think a little bit about how we do it. It's about the introduction of ICT. It has to do with how we plan. It has to do with collaboration with the municipalities– how to send epicrisis to the municipality when a person is expelled from hospital and should for example: in a nursing home. It has to do with the fact that new forms of treatment are still coming that are more effective. It has to do with angles from intruders to day surgery. There's a lot going on. And since this government took over after the red-green government, then with the party to County in government, we have actually reduced the queues by 80,000 patients. So yes, we've been capable of where you failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1491	The Christian People's Party went into this budget house with a clear stance: we would give the country a budget with a clear commitment to children, family, district, environment and climate. We've closed it down, and I want to thank the Right Party, the Progress Party, and the Left Party for getting us there. Then we've been talking about meeting in a secret town. We know well where the red-green meetings were, it was at meeting room 3, but I'm almost glad I didn't know exactly what happened there. Nevertheless, there have been demanding weeks for someone each. In the overtime, we gained insight, both on important issues for us, and on what was at the heart of the breach, i.e. climate policy. Let me first point out that we could not have been in this budget agreement without having seen significant changes in climate policy and a greener budget. Climate change is the biggest threat to our planet. We're forced to take the consequences of this. We can state that the state budget has become much more offensive to climate. With this arrangement, the plight of the fossil cars, which was a major point for the Christian People's Party, will be taken down significantly. We cut more greenhouse gas emissions, we invest in collective and rail – and there are a number of other measures. We have also put in place a real climate law. This will give us a big step in the right direction, even if we all have to do more to get to the climate commitments of Paris. Of course, a government budget is much more. The important priorities of the Christian People's Party have been implemented through this agreement, will mean a great deal for individuals, for families, for children – yes for our whole society. I want to draw up a case that is particularly important to me. In recent years, I have read many cruel stories about children who have been subjected to violence, assault and killing, everything from infants to teenagers – stories that I didn't believe were possible. On average, in each classroom there are one to two children who have been seriously selected or abused. The only hope these children have is that some of those around them will see what happens. Recent extensive studies show that the chosen frames a large proportion of the population – 6 pst. have been seriously physically elected by their parents. Severely physically selected means either that they have been knocked up, kicked, knocked with a fist, or have been physically attacked in other ways. Behind the number, there are individuals and individuals. Children and adults are being taxed heavily, and some are being harmed for life. At the same time — fortunately — many also manage well, albeit with a much more demanding starting point. Safe growth has been a slogan Christian People's Party has used for a long time. The slogan has become more important and more important to me, but also has a more serious meaning. Of course, stable and good families are still central to ensuring a safe growth, but the consequences of the opposite have become so much clearer to me. That's why it was entirely up to the Christian People's Party to get a lift for these children when we were going to negotiate the 2017 state budget. The government had proposed 176 million. kr to various measures to combat violence against children. We now have measures worth more than 500 million. kr. However, this is only a first step, because now Stortinget is dealing with its own escalation plan against violence and abuse, and then the Christian People's Party will fight for our commitment to prevention, better detection and investigation and better follow-up of the children who have been subjected to violence and abuse. Let me make it clear: The work on the escalating plan this winter is one of my most important battles so far. I could read a lot more things. Since it has been a short time for Stortinget, I would recommend the budget agreement as a constructive reading material now for Christmas. But let me still link some comments to the process that we've been through. When we went into this budget house, we were confronted with an ultimatum to our great surprise. We had an appointment last year about a green shift. We negotiated for almost one year, but did not come to an agreement. We then expect that we could try to find a solution through the budget negotiations. So the government, a few days before the state budget came, chose to present its proposal as an ultimatum. I would like to say that there is no need for budgetary negotiations to be conducted, starting with a firm stance. But more importantly, it's not what a minority government is going to do to its cooperation party. A minority government that puts ultimatum in place is really heading towards a possible government crisis. A government budget is pointing forward. The issues at the heart of this budget, the issues on which the government chose to put the ultimatum, are going to challenge us stronger and stronger for years to come. So, the conflict about the car package is just a signal about what's coming. Norwegian governments in the 2020s must show a completely different willingness for ambitious climate action than one has shown in this room today. If we are to be able to do our part of the big job that needs to be done in the climate area in the future, we need completely different ambitions for courageous climate action than we have seen so far. There is one reason why the National Government of the Christian People's Party was clear that we want a new government consisting of the Center and the Right Party. Today I see that the next leader of the Progress Party says that he would not have felt any tears if this had not happened. It is, as I read it, pure words for the money – that it will not matter so much if the Progress Party goes out of government, that it is not so important for the Progress Party to sit in government. It's a signal we notice. For the Christian People's Party it is important to come to government. We want to have a bigger impact because the Christian People's Party has bigger dreams than cheap petrol. The Christian People's Party will fight against poverty, both in our own country and internationally. The Christian People's Party of my family must have freedom of choice over their own everyday lives, and that no choice is wrong as long as family members have taken them themselves. The Christian People's Party will stand up for those who need the most, and stop travelling towards a sort society. The Christian People's Party will stand up for human dignity in all the phases of life. That is also what we have been doing to ensure through the budgetary unit. So we've got 450 million. kr to more teachers in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade. We know that it is the most targeted action to help the most vulnerable students. Getting a good start early is incredibly important. We've prioritised $4,000 more for the least-in-one pensioners. We also received that in the budget for 2016. We are now going to have it in the 2017 budget. This means that the single minimum pension list can have an increase of $8,000 in total. We give priority to the quality of kindergartens and increase cash support because we want family members to be allowed to make their own choices without saying which choices are right. And we've given priority to the districts. We have a clear district profile with bets of hundreds of millions of dollars. Regional development funds are a good example, with 200 million. kr just to create more jobs. Family farming is another example. However, I will conclude by saying that who always prioritizes the Christian People's Party those who need it the most, and in this budgetary unit we are increasing international aid by 700 million. kr. It's going to help refugees where they are. It is important that we in Norway, where there are also major challenges, have an ability to look beyond ourselves. Our next love must never stop at the Swedish border.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1533	I can assure the representative Hareide that I will not put any ultimatum in this reply. The Christian People's Party has been busy reducing the differences in our society, but today we have a government that consistently increases them, not only between poor and rich, but also between city and country. We see it, among other things. in agricultural policy, in the allocation of funds to county councils, the creation of new jobs and, not least, the breakdown of regional development funds. Now the Christian People's Party has got the government parties involved in several district actions, which the Workers' Party had already included in its alternative budget, and that's good. But then I want to ask the representative Hareide what he thinks about his own cooperation parties in the government this year after year, and now the last time in the draft state budget for 2017, the differences between city and country are increasing, and that the Christian People's Party must once again literally go the government parties anew.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1542	I start my speech in Stortinget by thanking the Right, the Advance Party and the Left precisely because they have seen how important it has been for the Christian People's Party to have a district policy where one sees the whole country. With the budget unit we get here, we get 200 million. I believe we should also be aware that what we are doing in the climate, in biofuels, is very important for the Norwegian districts, it will create jobs and it will be important for jobs to be created in addition to the large cities. It will always be individual things we may disagree with, but I think that with the budget unit we have now, the district profile has just been raised significantly, and it is an improvement that the Christian People's Party is saying well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1549	I think the representative Hareide would be more inclined to be more sober when he talks about the regional political victories. It was said here in the post that a ring about family farming. Yes, the government introduced taxes on investments for young people in the district. Christian People's Party reversed it. The government opened for agricultural holding companies. Christian People's Party stopped it. The representative Hareide boasted of a promise to the regional development funds, but without mentioning that there have been strong cuts from the government's side that are now being reversed. So my question is, what are the positive, new measures for agriculture and for district policy in the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1556	I answered it a little bit in my previous line. If so, among others: look at the climate we're absolutely forced to do now before biofuels, it's going to have a big impact on many district industries. It'll create jobs, it's a positive thing. If we look at the transport budget, where we were initially quite positive on the road when the government put it forward, it has been the bet of our times in District Norway that the blue-blue government has stood for, and perhaps both the representative Pollestad and the representative Hareide have been too poor to give the blue-blue government the credit for the very point that many districts are coming out well with the bet that the blue-blue government has had. We're forced to see the healing here. And so is it that there are some centralizing effects of our society, but it also saw us under a red-green government, and we've seen it under a blue-blue government, and it's not just political governance that affects it, it has something to do with trends in our society that aren't necessarily politically governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1561	I record that I did not get an answer to my question, but I want to take from what the representative Hareide says about road, because there is now a billion dollars behind the investment plan in the national transport plan. The budget agreement gave additional cutbacks, much of which is the road project in the districts that will be cut off further. A reverses the proposal for a cut from the government, but on areas that are positive, for example. road, the budgetary agreement has helped to make less money available in the districts than it was before. Then my question is, how can the Christian People's Party raise the tab so high and claim that there is a district effort in this budgetary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1566	I myself had the joy of hiring the transport committee in the previous period. Then came the red-green government with a very ambitious transport plan. So we can see that both on the road and on the rail will meet the transport plan that the red-green government presented. In fact, I was unsure about it when the plan was adopted in Stortinget, but we have an overfill when it concerns the railway, we will also meet on the road. These include: a great good for the districts. But, of course, district policy is not just about transport, it is also about developing industries. That's what we do with the kind of requirements we set for biofuels. There will also be job creation within industries — in forestry. What we do is we do it by doing it carefully in relation to agriculture, I think, is right. There will be important blows when coming agricultural messages to the Spring Stortingen – to make it good for that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1571	It's not always that the biggest money goes to the most important thing. There are blue budgets examples of. But it is not for everyone that the biggest money is the most important thing. So let's see examples of that. The budget means a lot to families, as the representative Hareide said in his post, and it means a lot to children. But not all children were of equal importance when the budget was negotiated. Now the Christian People's Party is going in for a cut, you're going in to save 5.9 million. for families with children living in reception centres. With the proposal that is on the table now, a family of six will be left with 55 kroner per person. It will cover food, clothing, health care, medicine, transportation, telephone, hygiene items and other things you need. More kids are going to go hungry to bed. The representative Hareide says that the budget agreement is constructive reading material. Is it upbuilding that young people on reception will go to bed hungry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1578	No child should go to bed. But I think that in the budgetary agreement that the Christian People's Party has been involved in securing now, something more goes to those who need it all, most of all. When we give priority to the most vulnerable students in Norwegian school, it will be an investment for the future. When we increase to the plan to counter violence against children and abuse, we increase by 176 million. NOK 500 million. kr. I can't believe it hits better than when it comes to the most vulnerable children in our own country – helping them. Of course, when a budget deal is negotiated, one will never be happy with all the issues, but I'm proud that the Christian People's Party has raised one of the most vulnerable in our society through the budgetary agreement. I believe that a fairly objective and neutral eye will agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1585	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1590	It has indeed been a rather remarkable budget harvest. It might be a budget harvest that will be left for political history. So first we experienced a press conference from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister before the budget was presented and sent to the Stortinget, where they presented almost an ultimatum on behalf of their own government. Then we got over a month in Stortinget with a standstill – a whole October and a half November where it seemed as if the parties in government and the cooperation parties pushed the whole issue of negotiations ahead of us. It seemed that they did not want to address the problem. But then we finally had negotiations, and then there were negotiations where all the deadlines were broken, where there was not only one breach, but where there was a breach, and where it gradually appeared as the pure chaos. This is significant when the representative Nesvik has to go back to 1986 to find an example of something that is at all comparable to what has happened this autumn. But it is that in 1986 we did not have today's budgetary system. The current budgetary system was introduced in 1997, precisely to deal better with the budgetary procedures of minority governments in the Grand Duchy than in the past. And we haven't even seen since 1997, when that system was introduced, that we've been dealing with the budget on the basis of loose proposals in Stortinget, based on the fact that it hasn't been delivered a complete suspension or a supplementary option. This has not happened before with today's budgetary system. We've actually had a day and a half looking at the overall economic structure of this government and the supporting parties. It probably makes sense that someone came to an agreement, but it's also, I think, wise that one today has chosen a rather – let's say – low tone when it comes to the veil of enthusiasm, that one has chosen to mute that tone a little bit in view of the agreement that has been reached. As Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said earlier today: Some of the posts that have been from some of the parties, “began to sound more like a string than a song of praise”. The leader of the Christian People's Party in the Financial Committee would not answer whether this was a centralising budget or not earlier today, and I understand that. I can then give him the answer: it is a centralizing budget. This government has systematically and consistently gone through and cut or eliminated regional policy measures, and it is only a continuation of the trend that this government started when it adopted the government offices. Regional development funds have been cut by 1.3 billion. kr during this period. So the Christian People's Party can say that they have had some of it reversed today. They have had half of the cut reversed, but it is then taken from the frame of the county councils, and I have to say that is a rather strange way of covering it up. One has cut year by year the funds to be used for balancing network tariffs for customers in the districts. One has year after year reduced the funds for broadband deployment. We have seen years ago that one has done things that concern, among other things. road construction or collective measures in the districts. The so-called collective measures in the districts have been proposed this year to be completed. The power plant tax, which affects Norwegian municipalities strongly – and power plant tax and power plant income are one of the reasons why we have not ended up in the situation Sweden is in – has also been proposed to be modified in a way that is problematic for Norwegian municipalities. It's like one in the budget agreement has a couple of environmental, climate measures that the centre party seems to be important, so I'm going to spend some time at the end of my post to talk about it. The centre proposed in its alternative budget that a CO 2 business transport fund be set up, and we proposed that an increased turnover requirement for biofuels be set at 20 pst. It's now included in the deal. I think that is good, but it is also important that someone then get started with the CO 2 fund for the transport of food as soon as possible. The centre part has added 1 billion. kr to start this type of fund quickly because, according to the Transport Economic Institute, it could be one of the measures that can contribute to 600 000 tonnes of CO 2 emissions cut by 2020, and it is important that we are realised. This also applies to biofuels, where the Senterpartie also believes that there is a broad basis for a settlement in the Storting in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1620	It is time for Christmas calendars, and many have probably wondered what is hiding behind the doors of the government. But those who had hoped that new and modern design would also lead to new and modern content, have probably been greatly disappointed. There were no new ideas or better solutions. It's well with right-hand policies like Christmas traditions: you like to end up doing things exactly the same way you've always done. Both Arnstad and I represent a state that recognizes the consequences of it. As Arnstad himself pointed out, we clearly see that the government's priorities do not benefit a district group such as Nord-Trøndelag, for example. in the government's cut in regional development funds, local economy, road and the performance project gift enhancement scheme, which – to illustrate the point – means DKK 100000 to Nord-Trøndelag and SEK12.6 million. kr to Oslo. What does the representative think about this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1627	As I was in my post, there is a clear trend in this government that one implements proposals that centralize, and one is systematic in its way of arranging district shooting. The representative Hareide was up here and said the government has been investing in transportation. It may have it, but not in the Nord-Trøndelag. In Nord-Trøndelag, from which I and Arild Grande come, one this year has cut E6 Selli–Asp, for those who are known locally. Everything about Namdalen and E6 is cut. The fly offers in the Namdalen and at Rørvik are incredibly poor compared to what was in the period of the red-green set, and everything called collective action in the districts of the Nord-Trøndelag is just cut out. There is a continuous trend in this government: one sees the big cities best, one sees non-Norwegian districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1636	In an article in Today's Business, former Labour Party politician Merethe Storødegård asks if we do not want Norwegian jobs around the country. She has visited companies that provide lives and jobs in Nord-Trøndelag – Rørvik, Namsskogan, Grong, Steinkjer and Levanger. There are newly established enterprises or family businesses that have passed through generations. They belong in and are part of the rural community and take credit in providing work, securing profitability and delivering good products and services. It is owners who take social responsibility, but who, unlike foreign competitors, have to pay a strange wealth tax that makes them less competitive, and who mature, whether or not the company is running out of profit. For the past three years, I have been a little surprised that the Central Party follows the Workers' Party's tax literature that the wealth tax is to give tax relief to those who have the most from before, when the Centre Party – by all means – should know how this damages Norwegian employment across the country. Then I see in their alternative budget that they're going to increase the property tax by 2.1 billion. kr. Why will the Central Party pursue a policy that destroys local workplaces throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1643	Merethe Storødegård represents the NHO in Trøndelag and must be allowed to communicate NHO's view of property taxes as well. But I think quite certainly that Merethe Storødegård would very much agree with me that when this government proposes flying offers in Namdalen and in Rørvik that are going to prevent the namdal business opportunities of getting to and from the region in a sensible way, it is a very unfortunate business activity. I think she would very much agree with me that when a herd of regional development funds like the Nord-Trøndelag County has used in a very sensible way to bring up businesses and businesses throughout the country, it is very unreasonable business policy. I also think she would see very negatively that this government has consistently depriorized everything that is about road in the county from which I come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1652	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Centre Party that one should be careful with large increases in fuel taxes because they would adversely affect the districts, agricultural and fisheries industries. However, it must be a cross of thought for the Central Party to overcompensate fossil cars with their alternative budget proposals. Yes, in the overview prepared by CICERO, the 2017 draft budget of the Centre Party – regardless of the method of calculation – will be the worst of all parties, including the government’s proposals, in terms of climate policy measures that can reduce emissions. Is the Centre party satisfied to be the party that has submitted a budgetary option that provides the lowest emission reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1659	The centre party seems to us to be cautious about going into a debate where we think that the so-called green taxes are somehow solved in terms of the climate problem. It is clear that a fuel tax that is now proposed on some tens of ears will almost have no climate effect at all. The same calculations as the representative refers to the Senterpartie also show that the government’s arrangements for the fuel tax almost do not have a climate effect. The legitimacy of the use of green taxes is undermined when it is produced as the major climate action. The center party looks positive on a couple of other things that this conciliation involves. One I mentioned from the pulpit. It's the CO 2 fund for industrial transport. The second is 20 pst. marketing requirements for biofuels. It's important that we move on. There are measures that have in themselves not only 50000 tonnes or 100000 tonnes of CO 2 but probably well over – 600 000 or up to 1 million tonnes of CO 2 cut. There are measures like monks. There are measures that can also create value creation in the labour sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1675	All economists and organisations, public selections, even the former head of the representative Arnstad, Jens Stoltenberg, agree that through active use of taxes and taxes, the market is the best instrument for achieving climate change reduction or reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. A market for alternative fuels, biofuels, is also definitely a good business policy for districts. This can help Norwegian forest owners and Norwegian farmers really get good finances back in their forest. How in all the world can the Center Party be so populistic that in such an important context, they are more concerned with criticising the Progress Party than taking the climate problem seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1680	The centre party takes the climate issue seriously, but we think the left has got completely ‘hang-up’ in terms of green taxes and green taxes. It is clear that there are many other measures related to climate policy, which are as important as some tens of thousands on fuel, which are unlikely to have a significant climate impact. Breivik said that one of the measures contained in the Centre Party's alternative budget, namely to increase the turnover requirement for biofuels to 20 pst. That's right. It can lead to increased value creation, it can lead to a good market, and it can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are measures that are very important to get started, and there are measures that the Central Party also has in its alternative budget. The most important thing is that the actors are given the security that we, the parties in the Storting will make a settlement on that sales requirement and stand by it in the future, so that they dare to invest. It's the Center Party's fully prepared to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1687	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1692	In this Chamber, I think all the politicians have some basic ideals and driving forces that follow them. The left's driving force is to set society straight for the challenges we're facing in the future. Sometimes it may seem as if we are not trying to make today's picks, but I am absolutely certain that those who are going to have a vote in the future will be pleased with the effort we are making. Today we see that populism as a political driving force is growing around many Western democracies. If there's something history has taught us, it's that populism never dares to face the tough challenges, the big difficult choices, the things that contribute to giving a clue about how to deal with the future. It is important always to have politicians who dare to say something unpopular, and I always hope that believing something unpopular can also be a little popular. I want us to have a policy where we can see the kids in our eyes and say that we tried just as much as we could to make the climate, education, work and society you're going to grow up in is going to be the best possible way. There has been the driving force of the Left in this budgetary process. With a government ultimatum that is hailed for future purposes, for example. To say that that's how much we're going to have for research -- and not a penny less -- we're going to bet so much on having good teachers in school, or that's how much we're going to bet on getting jobs, this process would have gone a lot easier. I should like to reiterate to the representative Gahr Støre, who believes that we have not spent time on the major challenges, that it is precisely the major challenges we have spent a lot of time on. We may disagree on what some of the major challenges are, but we have really discussed the major challenges facing society now, within both the climate, knowledge and transformation of Norwegian business to create jobs for generations after us. The budget we finally agreed on will change the Norwegian transport sector, it will initiate changes that will also change the Norwegian industry. We in the left would like to stretch a lot longer, but that was definitely as far as we got. We can use biostrategies as one of the examples. It also shows how demanding it is. In fact, it is important to increase fossil taxes in order to make bio-solutions profitable, in order to obtain profitable investments, in order to obtain profitable Norwegian jobs. This is a great potential for nutrition for Norway if it is done wisely. If politicians do not set a framework for this development, it may go in the wrong direction. Then we can remove natural diversity, and then we can use our soil in the wrong way. But basically, this is a good example of the fact that if a market is created for a product that is positive and that leads to better use of our resources, while a politician is willing to set a framework for nature to also set some frameworks around the production we want, then there is an opportunity to create many jobs in Norwegian districts based on Norwegian elements. Yes, this can really be an example of what the green shift is. So there's a lot of big and small decisions in this equation. We're finally getting a climate law, we're getting a flat CO 2 tax as a principle, we're getting a CO 2 fund, and then it's all the measures that might sound a little strange, but it actually means quite a lot not growing up ants when it comes to taking care of our country's carbon accounts. It's about. 5 B.C.E. kr in the green shift here. One and a half billion. kr is in collective and climate, and then it's $0.5 billion. kr on classical nature protection. Why is it so important when we've discussed climate with as high a factor as we've done? Well, because you also have to take care of the classic nature protection of the climate struggle. It is important when a rate of ‘bio’, that one also rates on species diversity. It's important that we get a boost in the fight against pollution, in the fight to take care of our endangered species. That's why classical nature protection is very important. But I'm going to admit that it happens that it's easier in these negotiations to get money to prevent the watering of our oceans or to take care of different animal species, such as our wild axis, than to get to the big climate measures. But it's still important to see it as a whole -- that we can both do it at the same time. The other big thing left has been involved in our alternative budget, and we have also been through the conciliation, is about ICT betting, more ICT places of study and more student welfare, from student housing to the phase of eleven months of study support. It is also important to focus on the fight against child poverty. I started by seeing the coming generations in my eyes and saying that we really tried. I live in the Old Town of Oslo, and I have seen in concrete terms how the money we have spent on poverty measures related to childhood has had direct consequences for children's lives in a very positive way. Here, we are further raising health care and psychological services for children, but we are also further raising the poverty rate that we have had, with measures in this area. It's also about the transition of business. It's about seed funds for ICT companies, it's about investing in research to be able to create new jobs for the future. I've never been through a birth, but I might have a concept of what it is. I have to admit that on Saturday evening I thought that the important thing about a birth is not to assess the process, but the result. But I will admit that the ‘birth’ of this budgetary agreement has probably also put its scars on those who have been through it. But the root of all of this is that we actually disagree politically. I notice that the representative Gahr Støre vision's democracy we have leads to a lot of mess. But the disagreement is real, the breakups are real, the meeting points are actually real – democracy is actually opinions that are broken down ‘on the real’. I don't think people get more involved with politicians not discussing. I don't think people get less involvement in the political struggles when they're not visible. I'm too minority government because I think it's good for democracy to see what the parties are up against, and what are our agendas. That's why I think the popular frustration that we're not going to finish is also an important influence on us to get to the goal. And we felt it in the left on this process as well. It's clear that some people might want streamlined processes. Some people might want to get along with it right away, or if small parties cooperate with big ones, they're just going to give up right away. I realize it's the culture of some parties. I don't think it's a good political culture, I think these debates also lead to people seeing what's important. Finally, I have been a staggering representative for 15 years. I've been talking about these things for 15 years. I joined the Left when we started talking about a green tax change. Having an entire budgetary process that is actually about it, having an entire budgetary process where climate and environment are at the top of the agenda, is a rather dramatic change over a few years of what is at the top of the agenda. We in the Left are today going to vote primarily for our option, because we believe it meets future challenges best. But we've now made an alternative that's going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but also meets the future that kids need, with a new business life, with new jobs, and with a school and knowledge effort that allows them to evolve and get opportunities in the society we meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1729	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1734	We are not going to discuss births in this Chamber, but I think the representative Skei Grande is wrong when she mentions births. It's not that you don't think so much about the process, but you evaluate the result that comes. You worry a lot about the process, and it hurts a lot, but then it's now so that what comes out as a result, yeah, it gets every mother happy about it. I guess that's also what happened here. Over the past few weeks, we've heard from both the Right's representatives and the Minister of Knowledge say that the teacher's density is not important for the students' learning at school. It explains in a good way why the Right at all has not prioritised more teachers, and on the contrary, the cut in teaching positions. It's against common sense. It also runs counter to the political priorities of the Labour Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party; we have all prioritised more teachers in school and more kindergarten teachers in kindergarten. Some employees with the right skills are the most important quality factor both in kindergarten and in school and what is needed if we are to succeed in early work. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1741	Now I thought the representative of Trettebergstuen would salute me for having now ‘implemented’ money for the last Document 8 proposal she made in Stortinget, but that was not the case. I understand that the online debates and the recent budget proposals were followed, but on Friday the SSB presented a report evaluating the efforts of the previous government to increase the number of teachers in Norwegian school, namely the 1.5 billion. kr for which the Red-Greens have put forward proposals to get more teachers in high school. In that report, the SSB clearly states that there was no learning outcomes. One and a half billion to more high school teachers gave no learning outcomes, according to the evaluation. The left has always prioritised continuing training for teachers, more competent teachers and providing five-year teacher training. That's why we're very happy that we're here in the budget to provide a repayment of loans to those who are willing to take five years of teacher training, because that's what works. And that showed the SSB report on Friday very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1750	I also have to ask questions about this so-called child, with whom I believe some of the mothers are a bit displeased, but still want to know. So there's no wrong child. It becomes easier to live environmentally friendly throughout the country, said Sveinung Rotevatn of the Left when the budgetary agreement became known. When I ran past the local gas station in Lärdal today, before one had charged some taxes, the petrol price was already NOK 15.20. Many commute from Lærdal. Not everyone can do as I do, which can actually take a taxi if I choose it; many have to use their car. There is no option, as was said from the Progress Party. No bus, track or tram goes, and they've cut the collective bet in the districts. What option will Left give workers in the districts who commute long distances when they cut into running fees and there are no options [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1759	What surprises me when I hear about the Center Party now is that it sounds like a FrP from the 1990s. There are many alternatives to today's cars, and they are not trams. There are a lot of possibilities for progress, and there's not a railway that's the solution for everyone. No, of course you're never going to have public transport that drives everyone in Sogn and Fjordane to work, of course not. Everyone should drive a car. But the goal must be to meet the challenges of our Paris agreement. Then we must have cars that pollute less. That's why we're making it cheaper. We're making it dramatically cheaper in this budget. It's just choosing a car that pollutes less, you make a lot of money on it, and everyone gets to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1764	The President will remind you that speaking time is not indicative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1769	Before the elections, the Left went to the elections to say that if we only got climate negators and war and conflict denigrators into the government, we would get a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and we would get a lighter asylum policy. Well, greenhouse gas emissions are increasing, and we've got Donald Trump's spiritual sister as immigration minister. It had been time for Trine Skei Grande to be so honest and say that she was wrong, and that it was wrong and a historical mistake to put the Advance Party into government. But she doesn't. That is why I would rather ask you something very specific. TV 2 reported that one of the measures we now need to take in the case of asylum recipients is to take action against self-injury and suicide, since the government changed its practice and now sends 75 pst. by asylum seekers back to Afghanistan — where there is more fear, but the government says it is safe — there are more suicide attempts and more self-harm. Then the question is, is the Left satisfied with this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1776	At the previous elections, the Government and the Left entered into an asylum agreement. Then I was very pleased with the development. And then we went in the right direction. Then it was easier for children to stay than when SV put in government. Then there was a refugee crisis that caused the asylum agreement to collapse, and that those parties joined forces with the Workers' Party. There they went together on suggestions such as: says it's okay to send people on an internal flight. Heikki Holmås and I voted against that. That means that we have a shift in asylum policy in that agreement, and now we see the consequences of it. I disagree. I am against what we voted against when it was dealt with. Now we see the consequences of that. Yes, there is a big difference between the representative's old government partners joining the government, or whether I am the one who sits and makes those agreements with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1788	Differences in wealth and power are increasing in our country. While the government gives generous gifts to the economic elite, people who have little, less to live for. While Norway is becoming a more diverse society, the government is holding on to government councils that wound up and contribute to polarization. And while dramatic signs that climate change is in full swing and very dangerous, the government comes with ultimatum against good climate policy. This government should not have been saved today; this government should have been the field. There are some people who have to pay for the government's budget chaos, for example. the country’s hospital, which now has to deal with a sharp increase in the so-called efficiency reduction rate, which has very little to do with improving efficiency, is proving to be the case today. The Prime Minister himself admitted on the radio this morning that this will affect patient treatment. The Christian People's Party and the Left have done an amazingly poor job of correcting the unsocial cuts from the government's original proposals – those that lead to people who are sick, disabled or have little, making it harder to meet ends. Some of those who have the least in our society are told today that they are going to contribute to the split layer so that they get more at the top. These include chroniclers, who are now getting increased excesses in physiotherapy, as far as disability is concerned, who experience that they are not being remedied at this time of the wrong that lies in the changes in the child supplement. Thousands of dollars have lost some of the poorest families in Norway. These are those schools with extra-large social challenges that lose 600 teachers because of this budget, or people who lose their jobs and feel that they are being taxed for termination benefits, while people with large assets get tax cuts. For disabled people who cannot work, but are still penalised financially, it must be felt as a bit of a provocation that cash support is greatly increased while reducing the child supplement for the disabled. So if you do, you're going to have to live less because they don't work, while if you're working, you're going to get more to leave. But then it's not the line of work that characterizes this government; it's the line of inheritance -- it's worth being rich. We have a government that has rigged the tax system for increasing inequality and injustice, which has led a petty policy towards many poor and destitute, which has led a policy that gives more temporaryity, more power to the bosses of the labour market, and which repeatedly fails in another major task in the fight against the growing inequality, namely to take control of the housing market. Earlier this fall, I asked the Minister of Finance to come to the Stortinget and explain what the world government has been planning to do with a housing market characterized by explosive price growth, where young people and low wages are the losers, and where more and more people see that the dream of owning a home remains a dream, where the housing market has stopped working for a large part of our population. The finance minister said she didn't have to come to Stortinget to explain, because she was going to do that in the state budget. Now we have a budget without any significant new measures, and we have a finance minister who barely mentions the problem in the Stortinget today. This is the government of the economic elite, and it is incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party and the Left hold their protective hand over such a government. Change is quite possible. It is possible to decide whether the tax system benefits most people, it is possible to take control of the housing market, it is possible to take back control of employment, it is possible to raise income for poor families by increasing child welfare, by bringing back the child supplement, for those who have lost it, and it is possible to do something about poverty also in the older generation, for example. by increasing low social security pensions. SV has made choices on all of this and has promoted a budget that contains just such a policy for reducing inequality, along with a boost for well-being and school — for example. more teachers than fewer high school teachers, a new and more practical and varied day of school and a billion more to hospitals than the government proposes. That's how we take the fight for a warm society. We do that with significantly lower oil money consumption than the government. Many have spoken today about what the Progress Party has done and has not received in government, and one can at least take note of one triumph: it was talked about walking in a spirited ring around the piglet here earlier today, and the Progress Party has at least got the Svein Fleet to sound like Carl I. Hagen. It's not a small achievement. Two years ago, the Left promised that they had negotiated a government budget with the Progress Party to provide emission reductions. I quote: ‘This may be the first state budget in history to say with certainty that emissions from the transport sector will decrease.’ It is from a press release by Left Ola Elvesuen on the State budget in 2015. However, emissions did not decrease that year, they rose, and a significant reason was the increase in emissions from road traffic. What happens in 2016? We get the final figures in a short time, but the statistics for 1 to 3 quarters this year show that fuel sales increased by 3 pst. from last year. It's like VG wrote: ‘The fossil fuel is sold at the stand of the spray – and the emissions increase year by year.’ So it happens with a majority who promised to strengthen climate reconciliation and change of pace in climate policy. Well, the situation now is that emissions are rising, while emission targets are being abandoned. Then we get new promises this weekend on emissions cuts of 600,000 tonnes of CO 2 from concrete measures in this budget agreement. Well, as more and more people look at the calculation, it becomes clearer and clearer that it does not hold water, both because many of the emission cuts come from alleged measures that are not new, and because the calculation does not contain all the different measures the government and the cooperation parties will implement that can increase emissions. And when we know what has been the effect of corresponding promises earlier this period, I find little reason to put strong trust in this, and I perceive that in this crucial area, the support parties have unfortunately accepted the government's ultimatum. In the worst case, emissions may continue to increase. This budget is full of tricking with numbers and gray policies covered with green paint. That's how the Left and Christian People's Party has fought for a good climate policy in this period, and I don't mistrust them for a moment. I know they're concerned about this, and I know they're fighting hard for it, but there's limits to what you get when you've deployed the Progress Party in government. I agree with the Left Leader, who said on Saturday evening that we must be honest enough to say that the green tax change promised by the government in the last year's budget agreement has not been delivered. The green tax change to be included in the budget is thus reduced to a budget agreement that combines green taxes with the strengthening of fossil alternatives in other ways: increasing the CO 2 tax on petrol is replaced by cutting the user fee, increasing the CO 2 tax on fuel oil is compensated by cutting the base charge on fuel oil, and increasing the purchase charge on polluting cars is offset in part by cutting the taxes on all cars, regardless of emissions. This is like washing teeth and eating candy at the same time. Even if you kiss every day, there's nothing to brag about to the dentist. There is a majority for a greener climate policy in the Stortinget, but the government is blocking the necessary action. As CICERO's calculations in the last few days have shown, SV has an alternative arrangement that would have led to the big emission cuts we need, where we combine a green and a red tax shift so that this can be carried out in a socially sound way, where charges that initiate technological change are carried out without making everyday life impossible for people in the districts, and where we also do something about the elephant in space: our great oil addiction. On Saturday we were told that the four cooperation parties were «coming to Paris». I know the finance minister speaks very well French and is a pleasant journey, but I believe that on this particular trip to Paris, she is a bad guide. Trine Skei Grande and Knut Arild Hareide have no reason to call the travel agency and order a ticket to Paris yet. With the scheme adopted today, it is not certain that the majority parties will even come to the Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1850	Sometimes when we talk about Norway, it is as if we take it for granted that we should be the country we are, that it is natural that Norway should be a country with small differences and great opportunities. Of course it isn't, it's a result of long political struggle, and it's going to require more of the politicians of the future, because the counterclaims are so many, given that we're still going to be that country. This government does not carry on the fight – on the contrary: they are pursuing a policy that reinforces the differences, and the Light Background was in an excellent way, even in a number of areas, that the government is doing it. I want to ask the Lightbox about a theme that I think he wasn't in, but as I know he's very engaged in – and he's leading a party that's very committed to it – and that's equality. We're used to the fact that when it's the left-hand side that controls, the equality goes forward; when it's the right-hand parts, it says it's still. The new thing about this government is that it doesn't stand still; it goes wrong. It also showed this budget with all the clarity, there was a series of petty cuts. My question to the Lighthouse is therefore what initiative he believes a new majority and a new government should take in order to reduce the differences by also doing something about equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1859	Thank you for an important question. I would like to point out that precisely the Aukrus representative was in the first place, the growing inequality, is closely linked to our ability to pursue a policy that promotes equality. When inequality increases, it also becomes more difficult to balance the great differences between genders in our society. The government's tax law policy is very good at that. When one breaks it down on the sex, one sees that large tax cuts to those who have a lot, go to men far more than to women and thus contribute to strengthening also the gender differences in our society. I am, as the representative knows, particularly concerned that we need to pursue a family policy that makes it possible to increase equality in Norwegian families and at the same time increase equality in the workplace. This means, for example: that we should join forces to reintroduce the good three-part parental leave scheme implemented by the red-green government. It will be one of the most important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1868	As you know, SV went to the elections to eliminate poverty in Norway. Despite the fact that the red-green government had the largest economic space for action, some Norwegian government has ever had, we know today the fasit. According to the SSB, differences under the red-green government increased, and there were 15,000 more poor children. Can the representative Lysbakken, who himself was in this government, explain why there were 15 000 more poor children in that period? Secondly, why should voters believe that more of the policy that did not work at that time should produce better results now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1879	It would be more interesting if the Right could answer why those with open eyes are leading a policy of increased inequality and, for example, reduced income to some of the poorest families through the changes in the child supplement that the representative has agreed to vote through. We know very well what it takes to bring down child poverty. We have 92 000 poor children in Norway today. The type of action that many under this majority are also taking, which is about making everyday life easier for poor families, is important, but we do not reduce poverty without making the poorest families live more. The SV’s solution to this, which is a new proposal from our side, is a greater focus on child welfare, increasing it in value every year, and also specific increases for single-parents and families with many children, which are the two family groups that are clearly overrepresented in poverty statistics. It will reduce the number of poor children. There's no majority for in this room, but it's not SV's fault.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1884	The Christian People's Party has now contributed to a significant increase in the emphasis and positive attention given to the climate issue. We were very curious about the response when the agreement came out, and about the comments that came. Many environmental organisations praised the budgetary unity at the time of the negotiation. We've been recognized. They have their social mission to remember that it is only an important step in the right direction. We are going on, and that is what the Christian People's Party is going to do. But they were loud enough to acknowledge that the concrete measures had become good, also Rasmus Hansson in the Green Party. Then we waited for SV's view, but when it came, the party leader focused on the fact that we had made sure that the Progress Party could remain in government, rather than on the environmental issue, and then we wonder: Is the political game most important for SV, or are the good climate and budgetary results?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1889	I think there were some different opinions about whether the climate issue has received positive attention over the past few weeks. But attention has been, I agree. No, what counts for SV is whether the emissions go up or down. When the red-green government left power to the new majority, the emissions in Norway were on their way down. Now they're going up, and the government has signaled that the climate targets for 2020, which was the basis for the climate reconciliation that the majority would reinforce, no longer apply. That's why our recommendation to the Christian People's Party has been very clear, and I want to say that I really don't know myself in that picture, because I was very active in the Christian People's Party and the Left all week last week, when the parties were hard on hard and ready to demand an agreement that would significantly reduce emissions. But I cannot see that this agreement will contribute to it. The environmental movement gives Christian People's Party and Left praise for having fought for the environment. I do, too, but I think there's quite a broad consensus that the result is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1894	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1899	I am pleased today that we have an agreement on a budget – a budget that makes us well equipped to meet the challenges ahead. Now I have heard the discussion about whether this was as heavy and difficult as it was to give birth. I'd say I've born twice, I've had long births, and it's worse to give birth than to make a budget! [[Laughter]] This is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. It is a budget that provides the basis for work and activity next year, but also provides the basis for the long-term transition that Norway needs to implement. It is a budget that maintains the work of creating the patient’s healthcare, strengthens care and promotes mental health. It raises kindergarten and school, it gives more help to many of our most vulnerable, and it reinforces the work with the green shift, so that we can achieve the climate goals that we have agreed on. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the cooperation parties for the efforts and the work that have been done. The work has been demanding, but because we've all done our best, we've also achieved a good result. In a majority of the counties, unemployment has fallen in the last year. Inland, Northern and Troms are areas with high activity and low unemployment. But the consequences of the most severe oil price drop of several decades still characterize everyday life for many Norwegian families and businesses. The situation in the South and West is still challenging. Oil investments are expected to continue falling into the next year. Uncertainties such as brexit and international economic cycle may also affect the development of the Norwegian economy. Losing the job or standing without work is painful for it. Nor is it building for society as a whole. Work is the basis of our common welfare society. It is people's efforts and knowledge that are the basis for the well-being we have today. Workplaces are also a place where individual skills and ideas run out, and they often constitute a social anchoring in everyday life. Losing this is demanding. This is why it is a key issue for the government to contribute to the creation of more jobs and more activity in Norwegian business to provide people with a job and also to ensure well-being. The government budget for the current year is therefore a budget for work, activity and conversion. We put in targeted measures to create activity and to facilitate new jobs in the regions and industries most affected by the oil price drop. Schools and hospitals are cleaned up, road and track maintained, and offices are commissioned by the public authorities. We'll keep doing this in 2017. Economic policy is the sum of a strong effort to put out of work and to create new, profitable jobs. In the 2017 budget, we strongly focus on investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge. It will reduce the cost to business of transport, increase innovation and increase the skills of the population. This is how we take Norway safely through the long-term transition and provide the basis for Norway to become smarter, greener and more innovative. We must do that if we are to ensure long-term well-being. We're going to add about 4 billion. kr to a package of specific measures against the availability of the 2017 budget. The measures are targeted at the regions and sectors most affected. This means that some measures also take other parts of the country. The measures contribute to work, activity and migration where most is needed. As part of this package, the government proposes a grant of 650 million. kr to the municipalities of the South and Western countries for the maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and constructions in 2017. Unemployment may not be met by an increasing number of public sector employees. We need more jobs in the private sector. And a lot of new jobs are now being created. A record number of new businesses are being set up. More sectors of the labour market demand labour force, and many new job vacancies are rapidly shifting. But we don't create enough for it to compensate for the large number of people entering the labour market. The offensive policy we are pursuing is working. The latest figures from the national accounts show an increase in activity in the Norwegian economy. New forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau say that growth will continue to rise in the future. The latest figures from Nav and SSB show that the registered unemployment rate and the AKU unemployment rate remain fairly stable. Employment has also been stable recently. That is good, but the improvement we see in the economy and in the labour market is vulnerable. If we increase the tax burden on employers and employees, we are at risk that the rise will turn to decline. The budget for children, the elderly and families — a budget for minor inequalities in Norway — is adopted today. Government policy is to preserve a society of small differences and to reduce the number of children and families living in poverty. The most important thing to avoid children growing up in poverty is that parents are at work. I have already said how important this is to our budget, when we facilitate more jobs and better well-being. Together with the cooperation parties, we continue to focus on targeted measures against child poverty. We have already provided more reasonable childcare facilities for families with low income and a national free core time scheme in kindergarten for all children from their age of three years – children from low income families. We also provide a trial project with free kindergarten and SFO. The government will create a school where children learn more, where they can know the good feeling it is to master, where dreams can become reality, and where everyone should have something to stretch after. At a time when Norway is meeting the transition, it is an important response to bet even more strongly on knowledge. Last week, the results of the International School Survey, TIMSS, confirmed that we are on the right track. With the 2017 budget, there will now be more teachers to make early efforts. We continue to record the continuing training of teachers, and there will be more adults in kindergartens. In addition, we know that it is important to bet on the school environment. Safe children thrive and learn better. That is why we are also giving even more priority to school health. We strengthen child protection and use funds to strengthen the investigation of violence against children. We ensure that between 8 000 and 9 000 families are able to receive care while caring for their long-term ill children. It's a doubling of the number of recipients. The government has also proposed improvements to the housing support scheme in 2017 to create a safer economic everyday life for many thousands of the most vulnerable families. – All these are important measures that improve child growth conditions. The budget is also good news for the elderly. We set aside money to get more new lucky days care places and daytime activities places to dement. The pension for single-age pensioners with a minimum pension is now increasing in the reconciliation. Being sure that you get help when you need it is the foundation of our welfare society. For the government, it's important that we always have it, and that's why we've also set ourselves the goal of creating the patient's healthcare. And we see that it works. We see that the waiting times in the hospitals go down. The cancer package sequence works well. It contributes to safety and predictability. Multiple package sequences are rolled out. And it's not just about how much money we spend, but how we spend the money we have. The freedom of choice in healthcare has increased and patient rights have been strengthened. This important job we're going to continue with thousands of competent health professionals. We will also continue the work of securing people with mental health problems and drug problems faster and better help. It has been important to us from day one in government. The government is pursuing an offensive climate policy that strengthens climate reconciliation. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have raised the ambitions of climate policy. The 2017 budget is a good budget for the environment, for the climate and for everyone who wants to make green choices. We presented the greenest draft budget of the time. It has now become even greener through the talks and negotiations we have had. Consensus reduces greenhouse gas emissions and improves our ability to meet our obligations under the Paris Agreement. Measures involving significant emission reductions are being implemented in 2017 – not only as a result of the year’s budgetary unity, but also because we are now seeing the results of the previous year’s budgetary unity. It's starting to have an effect. In this context, I have heard SV say for a long time that emissions increase with this government, and that there is no responsibility for own decisions in government. Today I have also heard the leader of the Workers' Party try to say the same in his post. It is true that the SSB measurements for 2015 showed an increase in emissions. It showed growth mainly in the ETS sector. The majority came from new oil and gas fields, which were adopted during the previous government. In fact, the Labour Party must be involved in taking responsibility for and not saying that it is our budgets that lead to these emissions. The second reason for the increase in emissions is that Yara has chosen to add more ammonia production to Norway, which has ensured jobs in the Baltic Sea, but there are more emissions in Norway than 200,000 tonnes. Is it true that this is a consequence of our draft budget? Yes, in that case the securing of the jobs in the sea is also a consequence of our draft budget. Or does the Labour Party leader think that we shouldn't have these jobs, that ammonia production shouldn't have been there? That's what the leader of the Workers' Party really says, that it's our fault when he owes it in his post. It is important to remember that some emissions are increasing in the quota sector because we are actually becoming more competitive in some areas. It ensures jobs in this transition, but it means less emissions in total because we have a joint implementation through the ETS sector with other countries. Then there is a smaller part of the increase in emissions due to the increase in activity in Norway, especially in the field of commercial transport. But it's to resort to rhetoric about the responsibility of others, and you shift away your own responsibility for what's happening. What is happening in 2017 is a significant step towards reducing emissions in the future. The conversion of the one-off charge and the extended benefits for electric cars provide additional incentives to choose low-emission cars. We're adding up to a still strong bet on new electric cars. We are proposing a strong commitment to technology development, rail and public transport. And some of the examples are: cycling, urban environment agreements, public transport reward schemes that make it easier to take environmentally friendly transport choices, especially in cities, and there is a strong commitment on the railways. Enova is being strengthened. The budgetary unit focuses on reducing emissions in the non-quota sector. Transport both by land and by sea will be a priority area. In addition, technology development through Innovation Norway, CO 2 management and the creation of Renewable AS are being pursued. For the right, it is important that the green shift is sustainable, i.e. that it can be combined with economic growth, more jobs and thus financing future well-being. It is also necessary to take account of the fact that Norway is a country with large distances, and there is a different need for cars for transport around the country. For this reason, it has been important for the government to also focus attention on districts when designing climate policy measures. This year's budget shows that it has been possible. We are also following up the defence agreement through the decision taken here today. That's good. The negotiations on the State budget have shown how ambitious the four cooperation parties are on behalf of those who have given us confidence. The discussions have been energetic, they have been demanding, but the talks have also been constructive – based on the basic values of the four parties and with respect for the fact that within the bourgeois camp there are also different approaches to the challenges we see in our society. But we have succeeded in good solutions – solutions that create more jobs, ensure well-being and contribute to a safe everyday life, and that strengthen the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1966	This respectful and constructive process has not looked exactly like this from the outside. It has been quite chaotic, the deadlines have been broken, it has been overtime. Now I know that the Prime Minister has more experience with births than I have, I've only witnessed three. But if we transfer it to the state budget, it's probably that instead of being taken with seaweed, it was Caesar's cut on Saturday – and the budget is here for us. It is a budget that comes into being after the ultimatum was imposed on the Stortinget, which the chairman of the Finance Committee calls for a very little wise procedure. That's what it says. There has also been urgent work, and I want to focus my attention on what is now the situation of hospitals. That's $0.5 billion. kr less for hospitals than advertised in the budget. The director of the Medical Association calls it a solid lifting breach, a threat to patient safety. The nurses call it incomprehensible and incorrect priority. The representative Morten Wold has said what this is going to lead to, that those who work in hospitals, doctors and nurses, now have to run faster. Does the Prime Minister share that view, that this is the consequence for those who work in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1976	It's not that efficiency requirements mean that people should run faster, but I think we have a potential by organizing us better. If there is something this government has shown, it was that new ideas and better solutions work very well when we just got replaced by the previous Minister of Health and made sure that we could now lower the health cows by 56 000 people. We've got a package sequence that makes us much better able to treat people, and people are allowed to follow the process, so that the uncertainty in treatment is much less. That is why we also deliver on the main election promise of the Workers' Party in the health sector: one million more for treatment much before the Workers' Party put up in its election campaign. We've achieved that goal because we've managed to organize better. The change that's now in progress means a little bit more than 400 million. kr less than the government proposed. But it's just 0.1 pst. stronger than the efficiency requirement we had last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1983	That government proposed was far below what the Right had promised quite specifically to the hospitals. So you're far below a promise, you're going to cut it further by half a billion, and the estimate is that now you're going to have to run faster. That Norwegian hospitals work better, we should thank those who work in Norwegian hospitals for it. Here are the actions carried out over several years through the organisation and organisation of work, as was also the case with the previous Minister of Health. But the question I want to ask is where this idea comes from, that you're going to do it this way. We had a plastic bag fee two years ago, a seat fee last year, and now I hear the same representative from the Progress Party saying that this was necessary to meet the Christian People's Party and the Left. My question is: Is this the idea of taking 0.5 billion? kr from the hospitals – last but not least, in a last poll for the budget – the idea of the Left and Christian People's Party, or was the Prime Minister's party behind that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1988	The ABE reform has been incorporated into all our budgets since the autumn of 2015. It is a way to give a governance signal that we should better operate the public sector by locating at local level how to identify the reorganisation that contributes to more efficiency. Instead of giving a block trip, you give a guideline that goes over several years. That's why it's incorporated, and it's producing results. Many countries have just made such demands on the public sector in order to make better use of the money. I had hoped that the Workers' Party would be pleased and happy. I hope we get the targets faster. The working party will spend more money on treating the same number of patients who have been treated, and it's wasted spending more money on being less effective in health than we've been able to get. The working party also does not achieve its own objectives when they only add a billion more to its alternative budget. They have a deficit of two billion. kr to achieve their objectives, they too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e1995	I have our witnesses to two births. I'll be so honest to say it was more comfortable than these budget negotiations. [[Laughter]] But now I want to thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, for we have achieved good results. We've got several teachers, we've got an action plan to fight violence against children, we've got $4,000 more for single minimum pensioners, and not least we've got more for international assistance, which helps the poor in the world. The problem with the negotiations we have had has our climate. It is difficult to get real short-term emissions which produce a real effect and which do not have an adverse side effect. So I'm happy with what we've achieved. But what I want to challenge the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think about the future? This must be a first step. We have committed ourselves to the Paris Agreement. This means that the 2017 state budget must not be a stop point – it must be a start point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2004	First, I would like to stress that it's probably like this from nature that men will never fully experience what it's like to be born. I realize that it may be more comfortable to look at, but let me just say that my experience is that this was much easier than a birth. And of course, it also depends on how kind a wife you have, if you're a man in the nursery, how comfortable it is to be present. I agree that the climate issue should be worked on every year in the future. A great deal of what is contained in the draft budget decision, but also in many of the proposals that we have agreed on here, points in many areas towards 2030. What we do on bioenergy – that is, biodiesel and other forms of energy – has an important role to play in the escalation, but it is very much in the technology tracks on which money and leadership are involved in this budget, which have a meaning. Of course, we'll follow up on all of these points, and I think we're on the right track to achieve the 2030 targets. The 2020 targets are difficult; the 2030 targets I think we can achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2011	We understand that much in the budget negotiations has been about the so-called car package, i.e. an increase in fuel charges against lighters in other areas. The largest of the lights is 10 pst. reduction of tolls outside the cities. That would mean, for example, in the Finnfast project in Rogaland, the bomb landings will go down from NOK 150 to NOK 135. It's going to happen all over the country. We know that the fuel charges will be reversed on 1 January, and my question to the Prime Minister is: Can the Prime Minister promise that the bomb tariffs will also be reduced from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2018	The main and largest compensation measure available from the government is a reduction in the annual tax to all. That's where the biggest money is paid. But we've also made a change of 10 pst. cut in tolls within a defined area. We are working hard to get it done from 1 January. By today's date we are not sure if we get it to anywhere, because it will require new signs and everything else that is set up. But our ambition is to get it started from 1 January. Then I cannot issue a statement on behalf of each bomb company about how long they will spend. But the money will be available for them to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2023	When you're a cooperation party, sometimes you're really proud of the Prime Minister, and sometimes it's a little bit more tiring. Two of the times at least I have been proud of the Prime Minister, when we adopted the 40 pst cut as the goal, in agreement with the EU, which the Prime Minister has a personal commitment to achieve, and when the Prime Minister stood in the UN and told about the importance of the Paris Agreement. So it's closed a little bit more in the last few weeks. I want the Prime Minister to think a little bit about the fact that when the government's proposal was presented, it was met with quite a lot of resistance in the climate and the environment, while the reception we have received on what we agreed on has been quite good. There are no judges on the other hand, but we have quite a number of judges who say whether we do a good or a bad job. If we're going to be able to achieve these goals, we need leaders who can also lead internationally. The Prime Minister has been very good in the UN and the EU. I realize that the budget that has been is also getting easier. But wouldn't she also wish that the proposal they had put on the table had met the same size of 'attack'?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2032	Every time we put something on the table, we always want to be met with applause, but we know from experience that that's not how it is when you're prime minister or when you're in government. I believe we have found many good measures in that cooperation and the work we have had in the last four years. Some of these measures are measures that we believe are very ambitious and go beyond what we would do in such a short time. Some are in the right direction, and some are of course areas where maybe we would choose different methods if, for example, it was. only was the Right who had worked on it. What has been my concern about this is the district profile and how we can compensate for the areas of this country which naturally have more costs and which do not have the same alternative offer. I believe that we have been able to find good solutions in the budget now available, and that is why I am pleased that we have done so. But if we go too fast, we get some unintended situations that I think can be negative also for the climate over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2041	This is ‘a budget for minor inequalities in Norway’, said the Prime Minister. That's what I thought I was talking about. I know about some people who would disagree with it, for example. the young and low wages for which the housing market does not function and which the Prime Minister did not mention in his post this time, and the many who now have to start paying for necessary physiotherapy. I can remind the Prime Minister of some of the people involved: it's about people who have had heart attacks, people who have amputated, people who have leukemia, people who have stem cell therapy, people with acid damage. My simple question is this: how is it possible to set a solid and tumultuous record in oil money use and at the same time tell these people that they must start paying for necessary treatment themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2048	I can also list groups that today do not receive free physiotherapy, and that paid a higher proportion when SV joined the government. For example: Many of the major women’s diseases often experience that they do not receive the same response and are equally visible, for example. the large groups of patients with fibromyalgia not covered by these schemes. There was a random list of disease diagnoses, much based on who had managed to get in at some point, which we thought it was natural to make changes in now. Then we made the changes, so that everyone pays a prop, but the prop is lowered. This means that there are many groups – including among the chroniclers – who are now getting a much better deal with what we have proposed than with what SV has previously stood for and voted for in government. This is a roof that was actually introduced by a civil government, and it is improved by a civil government. So I think I can stand up and say, this is right for the future priority. Moreover, there is less inequality because of the poverty rate, which is targeted, and which helps children to have a better childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2058	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2063	Today, we adopt the last state budget for this large-scale period, and then it is also possible to settle a little status for the Right-front party government. They chose to have new ideas and better solutions, but the solutions have proved to be the same old ones as the right side has always stood for: cut taxes, increasing differences, sale and privatisation. I listened to the post of the Prime Minister and noticed that she is a pain in the ass – not when she talks about increasing differences, for which this government is responsible, not when she talks about the missing job growth, for which this government is responsible, and not when she talks about centralisation, which is increasing under this government, but the Prime Minister becomes a pain in the face of criticism from the opposition leader, i.e. when she is part of a general democratic debate. Well, it was probably a part that believed in the Right when the party went to the elections to strengthen the hospitals by 12 billion. kr – they have not fulfilled it. It was probably a part that also believed in the Progress Party when they guaranteed that the tolls would be removed – they have not fulfilled that. What the two parties have prioritised has been the most important thing for them, simply cutting the taxes to those who already have the most. And that's where we find the most formidable bet of this government, that the income of the community has been proposed to cut by about 25 billion. kr. What might have been a little surprising is that the government at the same time increased the fees by more than 3.5 billion. kr. It may also be a little surprising that the Minister of Finance accepts that the Advance Party voters should be those who are involved in financing tax cuts for the Right-wing voters, who have greater income and wealth. The government gives to those who have, except those who have little, such as the holiday money to the unemployed, take from people who need help, take from those who receive basic assistance and assistance. Under the previous government, income differences in this country decreased. Now the differences go up. The redistribution through the tax system has been reduced. There's a difference between who it is who controls. Worst is still the problem. Just a few days ago, Nav gave us new numbers. The unemployment rate is rising, with the employment rate in 2016 becoming the lowest in over 20 years. Hordaland and Rogaland are the countries that have experienced the greatest increase in unemployment in the last year, and today the news also came that Stavanger has never had more unemployed than they have today, 3,848 people. There are more than numbers and statistics, there are individuals that will be framed. It is young people who in their first meeting with the adult life are told that we do not need you. There are grown workers who, for the first time in their life, do not know what to fill their days with. They'd need a budget that would do more to meet this situation. The working party's alternative budget has a completely different profile. We say no to non-social tax cuts that do not create new jobs; we want to spend the big money on several teachers, on more care for the elderly, on more police, on more public transport, on following up the promises we have made in hospitals for 2017, promises that Right has not been able to hold. I registered that the Prime Minister said that the Labour Party here is under his promise. No, we're on the mark. We also do the job that the government should have done, by presenting climate action that makes it possible to get closer to the objectives of Paris. Not least, we want a completely different and more active policy to create more jobs, including: value added programmes and a package of measures specifically directed towards the South and the West, where job growth is most needed. This state budget is not primarily about games and chaos and ultimatum and who has our friends with whom, as one might have had the impression of the last days, well assisted by the Right Party and the Progress Party itself. What the budget is about is people's everyday lives, about the students who want to keep the extra teacher at school, about the relatives who hope that the municipality can afford to get the sick home ready, and about those who are very willing to get back to work next year. After four budgets with the Right and the Advance Party, there is little evidence to suggest that they have something to look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2076	The car package has been debated a lot lately, both inside and outside this hall. Once we have been called a car party, it is right – we have simplified and changed regulations and rules that have helped those who have a car as a hobby, making it easier for them to practice their hobby. We're proud of that. But we are primarily a party that sees the need of the population for transport – it is to get to work, to kindergarten, to concerts and to practice or practice what they or the kids are doing. As most people know, Norway is a long-distance country, and there are different transport needs with different ways to address these needs. Some places solve the transport needs by train, tram and bus, while others depend entirely on the private car in order to participate in social life. For this reason, the Progress Party is focusing on a mix of actions – actions that take the vast majority of those with a transport need. In cities and between cities and agglomerations, large sums are spent on improving rail provision. Collective solutions are pursued, inter alia, through: a reward scheme for public transport. This large investment will offer a good deal to all those who can make use of it, but large groups and individuals in Norway do not have the opportunity to make use of such a collective offer. For the Progress Party, it is equally important that this group, which depends on the car, solve its transport challenges. And that's where the drivers come in. We cannot demand that these drivers pay more and more in taxes when they have no alternative transport solutions, while others become more and more subsidized through different schemes. The car policy that this government has adopted is actually a history of sunshine. The costs for the drivers have been greatly reduced, and it has happened with carrots and not with whips, as the red-greens have been known for. What makes this a sunshine history is that while charges have been reduced by an average of NOK 20 000 per car, emissions have fallen sharply. Yeah, we're actually the world's greatest emitters. The EU target for CO 2 emissions per km is 95 g of CO 2 per new car in 2020. In the last year, Norway has had a much lower emissions, more specifically 88 g/km in September 2016. Norway is thus far below the EU target. It shows that the drivers’ and government’s charging policies work, and without using whips. This shows that the government and the Progress Party have a transport policy for most people. For those parts of the population who have the opportunity to use public transport, a large contribution is made. For those who do not have this opportunity, we have lowered costs, including: by means of a lower toll and a lower annual toll charge, to mention something. We have a large-scale investment in road development, which makes transporting goods more efficient, while making it safer to be on the road. Through the conversion of fees, inter alia: by removing the power charge and by major reductions for hybrid charging cars, we will be given greater freedom of choice for those who need a larger family car. The progress party opted for a reduction in car charges. They've been, with a decrease of 3 billion. kr – from 20 br. until 17 B.C.E. kr. In this budget, we are also able to deliver a lower toll charge – for the first time in history. This shows that the Advance Party and the government deliver. And not enough with that -- what we deliver works to build the country further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2095	There has been a lot of attention to the fact that we have a complicated negotiation process behind us. But the fact that there have been many speculations about tensions and interruptions in the negotiations should not be a shadow of the fact that there is more continuity than a breach of what we have now agreed on. It is a continuity that climate action in the draft budget is strengthened following negotiations with the cooperation parties. The greenest budget in times has become even greener. We build on the consensus we had about strengthening the climate agreement. We have done this together by strengthening green research and innovation considerably through both the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Enova, because large technology leaps are needed to get to the low-carbon society. We have reinforced the climate agreement by investing significantly more on rail than the red-green NTP provided. We have extended and reinforced the benefits of buying low-carbon cars, to mention something. Together, we have set out 2030 climate policy objectives, which means a time separation. Not just means 40 pst. Cut by 2030, that means that we are not just going to be a place in 2030, but that we are going to have an annual emission budget and a strict reporting and control regime. This in turn means that we need to make significant cuts in emissions in transport and agriculture. To that end, we have strong measures in this budget by extending and strengthening the benefits of moving from fossil to renewable fuels for cars. We have a huge load on charging infrastructure, including for hydrogen filling stations. We are further stepping up efforts for climate technologies. We have a strong priority for green shipping. We have an offensive and predictable commitment to biofuels, and we are launching new offensive measures to make goods and heavy goods transport more greener. We also agree on a reinforced climate law, in which we legislate the carbon budgets we will receive for the 2030 targets, in which we legislate the five-year ambition increases required by the Paris Agreement, and we legislate that the low-carbon society in 2050 should be quantified. The budgetary agreement also provides for an important strengthening of classical nature protection. It's important, as the Left Leader said earlier today. It is important in itself to protect our nature, but nature protection is also important, both to prevent and to adapt to climate change. In our discussion of the Stortinget government's announcement of nature diversity. The main concepts of the message received broad support. The policy adopted will contribute to achieving national and international objectives for natural diversity. We will follow up on the communication in the future, and the budgetary agreement provides a good basis for this. The blue nature gets a powerful 60-million-dollar lift. kr more for liming, wild salmon and new salmon steps. This will help improve water quality in Norway and provide more measures to preserve the wild species. The commitment to voluntary forest protection is increased by 50 million. kr in addition to the government's original proposal. The cooperation parties have granted almost 1.5 billion in four years. kr for forest protection. In four years, we've invested 200 million. kr more than the previous government did in its eight years. We have thus more than doubled the pace of forest protection work. Voluntary forest protection proves to be a significant success. And we've had the queue of those who offer forest with voluntary protection, because more money is put on the table. We are getting stronger control of alien species, especially mink and Pacific oysters. We're getting increased efforts to restore ants, which are very important for carbon storage, and we get a number of other things. When we talk about peat bogs, I want to end by saying that today there is reason to congratulate Indonesia and Indonesia's President, Jokowi, on advertising a ban on drainage and burning peat bogs. Indonesian peat bogs store – according to what scientists tell us – greenhouse gases equivalent to 2000-3500 years of Norwegian emissions. It puts things in perspective. If you destroy peat bogs in Indonesia, the world's climate will be ruined. It should remind us that although the climate action in Norway is very important, and although the climate debates in Norwegian budget negotiations are very important, there is reason to stress that what we are doing internationally is the most important thing we do – to make a solid Norwegian contribution to effective global action against the greatest global challenge of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2125	First of all just a small remark: one should have quite good confidence, I would think, if one could say that the government's draft budget was very green. But I'll leave it. I want to go to something the Minister for Climate and Environment said to the evening post on November 25th, where the Council of State warned against using biofuels as a lightweight solution. ‘In-depth calculations are needed to determine whether increased requirements for blending biofuels are actually climate friendly’ said the Minister for Climate and Environment. He followed up that thorough calculations had to be made of this. With the inclusion requirement now in the 2020 budget agreement, can the Minister for Climate and Environment now guarantee that biofuels will be sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2134	It is the government's ambition that more and more of the biofuels being blended into be sustainable. We are part of a European market here, and we are subject to European rules, which means that we cannot guarantee that all biofuels will be sustainable in the future, on the contrary. Therefore, it is all the more important that we both work in Norway with the right incentives for the production of advanced biofuels, and that we work at European level to strengthen the sustainability criteria for biofuels. The calculations we have made over intensive rounds over the past few weeks indicate that the emission impact of what is now in the biofuel budget unit is around 89 000 tonnes of lower emissions in 2017, perhaps around one million tonnes of lower emissions in 2020, compared to the 2016 rules. However, it is also important, as the request decision states, that we closely monitor market developments in order to assess the situation on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2141	Too much of the debate on climate is about some tigers on fuel, and too little is about other important climate action. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we're proposing a CO 2 fund for business transport, and we're adding 1 billion. kr to that measure. This is also mentioned in the budget agreement, then as a verbal proposal. But now it's important that it gets going very quickly, because we're implementing such a measure from 2017, so it can help cut 600 000 tonnes of CO 2 in 2020, and maybe a total of 1.4 million tonnes in 2030, which is an important target. This is an important and concrete measure, and my question is simply: When will the government ensure that this fund is set up, and in what way will it contribute to its start in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2156	It's too early to say when we can have such a fund in place. The idea is that this should be negotiated, and important assessments must also be made in the process that we must respect the polluter-pays principle and that we must stay within the EEA legal framework. It suggests that it is now too early to determine when this may be up and standing, but this is a proposal that has been on the table in different contexts for a while, and that we are already looking at. We are now negotiating a new NOx agreement, so we also have experience with this type of agreement mechanism. We're going to put full pressure on getting this in place as soon as possible, but giving some guarantees as to when it might be in place is too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2163	The Government Party's representatives would like to use, after such budgetary settlements are in place, to say that a good budget has been even better. I think few have more reason to say that than the very Minister for Climate and Environment. At any rate, from the Left side, we were critical of significant elements of the environmental profile in the draft budget – or the lack of such. One of the things we were very critical to, which is now fixed up, is the big cut that was proposed in the Environment Directorate. The left is to streamline management, for example. Because we support the efficiency cut that is now in place, but we find it difficult to see why to choose the Environment Directorate for extraordinary, large cuts, compared to all other directorates. So I'm still a little curious about what was the idea behind it, and about the climate and environment minister today shares the joy of adding them to the directorate that they can now keep a high level of activity next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2170	Of course, I am happy that employees in a department located in my department are happy. It was just supposed to be missing. In terms of cut beyond the ABE reform, the efficiency reform, not only the Environment Directorate has experienced it. It has also happened in other contexts, and we must also be prepared for that in the future, with tighter public budgets. We have launched site reviews of several sectors, so looking at the efficiency and rationalisation potential beyond the efficiency reform is important. The Environment Directorate has been through a strong growth phase and there is therefore a need to look at efficiency opportunities. But I also want to say that with all the decisions that are now on the table, there will be a need for further efforts in the Environment Directorate, and therefore I do not regret the agreement we now have to continue the allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2176	Let me start by saying that I am pleased with the statement from Indonesia. It's great if Indonesia stops burning peat bogs. What is completely incomprehensible to me is why the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, fights with beaks and claws in international negotiations so that, in terms of the emissions you save by not selling peat bogs, you should instead be able to allow air transport to pollute internationally through quota trading, such as that of Vidar Helgesen and the government. Instead, I would like to ask the Council of State the following simple question: He said that this budget is so super green. Ok then, but does that mean that Vidar Helgesen finally, with his hand on his heart, can say that it is now the end of the increase in emissions as they did last year – from now on and forward, in other words next year, the CO 2 emissions in Norway, because it has ensured – in all its greenness – the government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2184	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås continues here the post he made earlier today where he accused us of creative bookkeeping. There is no doubt that the measures put on the table in this budget agreement will contribute to the reduction of emissions. But if you're going to run books, you also have to be able to read the books honestly, and then you can, for example, read them. read simply that the largest single entry in the emission increase book last year was an oil field which was adopted under the red-green government. Yes, with our votes, too, but it's important here not just to accuse others of how they do bookkeeping. You have to be honest about the accounting principles themselves, too. Nor can I fail to comment that when it comes to the need for a market for air transport, so that the increases in emissions from air transport can be countered by a market mechanism, we stick there to the same line as the red-green government had in the international negotiations on this. There is nothing new here compared to what Holmås’ government partners were doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2202	Let me start with a quote from the Unio hearing in the Financial Committee on the 2017 budget: «The facility is incorrect; the tax relief weakens the fight against the high unemployment rate and the funding base for future well-being and Community services. It is regrettable that the budget prioritises new tax incentives on wealth where we know that the employment effect is marginal.' It is a very striking description of the budget of the Solberg government. After permanent negotiations on the civil side, the agreement was reached. A lot has improved, and it may seem that the Workers' Party's alternative budget has been an inspiration for the government's so-called support parties, for example in the case of reinforced railway operations. But still the main device is wrong. The quotation from the Union may continue to apply in full. There is still a considerable gap between what will be adopted following the budgetary agreement and the level of the Labour Party in the municipal economy. In my county, Oppland, the municipalities and county council would receive 120 million. kr more to go with next year, including regional development funds, than the Solberg government included in the budget. On a national basis, the difference amounts to 3 billion. kr, and the difference has been around at this level also in previous years – a lot of money, which could provide more and better services. The municipal budgets for 2017 are adopted in those days. Many municipalities must carry out evil cuts that obviously weaken their well-being. The cooperation parties are behind the government's huge tax cuts, and then they don't have the money to raise the municipal economy where it should be. But the teacher's density increases, as we also add up to, and that's good. 200 million. kr has been renegotiated after the government’s brutal cut in regional development funds – the same amount as we have entered. But the four bourgeois parties are probably funding half of it by cutting into the limits of the county municipalities by 100 million. kr. They give, and they take. The Christian People's Party believes that the districts have come out better after the conciliation, and it is very necessary when the starting point from the centralized government was as it was. Perhaps some people here have also taken some inspiration from our alternative budget and the district policy that lies in it. The district profile has improved, but calling District Norway a budget winner is drawing it too far. The budget winners are, as always, with the blue-blue at the rudder, the richest, who get well out of the next year too – yes, ever better. It's going to be more to broadband than the government wanted. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we have set aside more than 60 million. kr more than the Left and Christian People's Party has managed to negotiate. I'm a little disappointed that they couldn't get any further, when one knows how important this is to people and business many places in our country. It began well. As a representative from Uppland, I was pleased with the 10 million. kr that has been put in place, through the conciliation, in project funding for new indoor air ambulance base – important for the safety of all who live or live on our edges, not least the many cabin owners who enjoy our magnificent landscape. For a while I asked the Minister of Health about the possibility of such a base. The answer I received was not exactly uplifting. I would like to highlight the colleague Ketil Kjenseth, who has done a good job here from the Left in the negotiating position. The proposal is supported by the Workers' Party. But then we discovered the breach of promise to the hospitals. We totally disagree with the real-world efficiency requirement of over 600 million. kr – at least the number you find in the daily newspaper – which is in the agreement. As a result, the Hospital Inland loses about twice as much as they get in design materials for the air ambulance base. Left with Kjenzeth and the parties give, and they take, and they take more than they give -- much more. The economy of health enterprises must be strengthened, not weakened, so that both hospitals and this base have the necessary means of operating in the future. The operation of the base costs about five times as much annually as the design itself does. The working party with its hospital billion would have given the Hospital Inland approx. 50 million. kr extra next year, plus that we vote for 10 million. kr to the air ambulance base. It is with the hospitals as with the municipalities: they must have first priority politically in order to ensure good and safe Community services throughout our country. It is obvious that the Left and Christian People's Party had achieved much more with us. It would have been good for the country, and it would not at least have been time-saving here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2237	The government has provided a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life and has organised for large greenhouse gas emissions cuts in the future. One of the most important tasks in politics is to take care of the weakest in society, and we know that the biggest differences in Norway are between those who are at work and those who are out of work. Unfortunately, the fall in oil prices has caused many people to lose their jobs in recent years. But the living room is probably getting better, and many people think that we're gradually scraping the bottom. Among other things, the oil price has been reinforced as a result of the OPEC meeting in Vienna last week. If this trend continues, it could, of course, have a significant impact on investment levels and employment in the future — as well as on the income of the country. In any case, the major unemployment challenges are mainly geographically concentrated around the South and the West, and we can rejoice that unemployment has been reduced in 15 of the country's 19 countries this year, and that many of our export-oriented industries experience good times as a result of, among other things. low exchange rates and moderate pay settlements. This has strengthened the competitiveness of many companies and secured jobs in large parts of the country. Norway is in a transition phase because we no longer expect the oil industry to be the strong growth engine in Norwegian industry and economy as before. It demands objectives and strategies for how to be competitive in the future, how to secure existing jobs and how to create new jobs. It is a long-term challenge but also a more short-term one to maintain the level of activity in regions currently struggling with high unemployment. The government’s action package for the South and West was important in this year’s budget, and it is one of the main initiatives for the 2017 budget as well. These specific measures for unemployment are of the order of 4 billion. kr and is targeted both at these geographical areas with high unemployment rates and at the industries that have experienced strong growth in the availability of oil prices. It is inherent in the nature of such a package of measures that it should be temporary and be capable of being implemented rapidly. At the same time, if the situation so warrants, this measure must be reversible or non-reversible. The government has taken the unemployment seriously, and I am pleased about that. Measures in this package may mention: 650 million. NOK to be maintained in municipalities and SEK 100 million. kr for the maintenance of hospital buildings in the South and West road, walking and cycling paths, flood and emergency measures, upgrade of research vessels, funding for the Demo 2000 research programme, church maintenance grants and various museum activities 445 million. kr for maintenance in the Maritime Defence. Half of this will be experienced in Norwegian companies. We are accelerating the acquisition of new coastguard vessels by two years. This acquisition is reserved to Norwegian industry for national security reasons, and this will, of course, contribute to increased activity in Norwegian shipyards from 2018. We have put in place a deferred payment scheme for property taxes for owners of companies that are in deficit. This could strengthen many jobs — not least within the maritime sector, the number of ships currently under service. We continue recruitment positions at universities and colleges and new places of study. It also contributes to increased activity in 2017. We are continuing labour market measures at a high level. We continue the extension of the daily allowance during the period of leave and provide incentives for outlawed and retired apprentices. This is also a budget that helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A world moving towards the Paris goals is a world that needs many new, smart technological solutions and structural changes in work processes and interaction. This means that new opportunities for industry and product development are increasing. The government has delivered both objectives and framework conditions that will help us to exploit this potential. In this way, both the environment, the future, competence, jobs and value creation will help to maintain and further develop our welfare level in the future in this transformation phase we are in. The government is solving important tasks today and is strengthening Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2285	It seems to many that today's debate is about the billions moved in the conciliation, but the most important thing is that the whole of the draft budget presented by the Minister of Finance in October is solid. This means that we have had four years with a clear commitment to what we think are the most important areas, which have given us – and will give – fewer in health queues, more policemen, increased clearance percentage and reduced settlement cows. The road and rail maintenance run has fallen, leading to safer and better roads, more frequent trains, and increased maintenance to make trains more precise. This creates a safer and simpler everyday life for most people and facilitates the creation of value in working life. Unfortunately, during this period we have experienced an oil price drop of over 70 p.m., which has led to more people losing their jobs – they have lost the working community, contact with colleagues and not least the income that finances family expenditure. Having a job to go to is important, and more people working are our most important job: safe jobs, equalising differences, giving freedom of choice and greater opportunities for everyone. It is important both for value creation and for well-being. In the short term, we use a targeted package of measures to create activity and jobs in the regions most hit by the oil price drop – to put out of work. In the long term, in order to create new, profitable jobs, there are particularly two things that go on when Norwegian business owners are challenged about what they need to create growth and development in their industry, business and region. There is investment in infrastructure – whether in the case of an airport, that one needs better ferries, that one needs a new bridge, quadruple road or railway – or that there is a reduction in expenditure, i.e. the level of taxation, in order to be more competitive towards foreign enterprises. These are two areas, infrastructure and tax havens, in which this majority has provided. We have increased the traffic appropriations by over 50 pst, and we have reduced both corporate taxes and property taxes. We know that lower taxes are the most effective medicine to create more jobs and more value creation in the long term, and reduced corporate taxation stimulates new growth and employment in private business. There's a lot that now suggests that the arrows are starting to point the right way. The business magazine Rosensourcen in Stavanger presents in its summer edition a survey of 550 random enterprises in the region. The results of the survey show an increasing optimism, and it is gratifying to see an increasing number of business leaders now looking brighter in the future. They believe in more employees, increased turnover and better profitability. Now we see that there is growth in the private sector, there is an increase in investment in mainland Norway, and unemployment is decreasing. We see that there is a record in the number of newly established enterprises both in 2014 and 2015, a much higher start-up than in the previous period. So it's now a higher rate of enterprise creation than it was under the previous government. Especially happy is the fact that the growth is greatest in the Western countries, which was hit hardest by the oil price drop. We have many skilled entrepreneurs out there who are willing to bet, who are willing to take risks, and who have the competence to start new business. But it is not that many new jobs are created overnight. It takes time, it's a long process, but the growth of start-ups is clear evidence that the policies that are pursued are working. What is most important for those who dare to bet and start up again is the belief in the future and the belief that the framework conditions that apply will also apply in the future and be predictable. Strong growth in the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure works in the short term, while increased investment in knowledge, rail and road, combined with a reduction in tax levels, makes business better rusted into a day-to-day life that is no longer oil dependent. Our main step today is to adopt a government budget that takes care of the whole picture and combines long-term migration with short-term action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2302	Last week I was in Boat fjord, and Boat fjord is far from the bank of the lions. One is geographical, but worse is that Båtsfjord and other coastal communities that depend on the seafood industry are obviously not close to the government either. At all, District Norway is far from the government's priorities. For those of us who are particularly concerned with business development, to create to share, it is quite incomprehensible to see that a government, with a prime minister from the Right, overlooks the districts, especially when we know how much the districts contribute to value creation, and – even worse – they could have contributed more if we had a government that had driven an active business policy. Back to Båtsfjord. Yes, it goes well there, much thanks to a favorable crown price, but also because the red-green government introduced something called “fresh fish system”. We pursued an active industrial policy to ensure that the fish landed in Båtsfjord can be used by the industry on land, and not just pass at full speed over the berth to be driven to a low-cost land for processing. Something else that they are concerned about in Boat fjord and in the business world is predictability. Market access is a necessity. Therefore, the red-green government prioritised improving market access for Norwegian seafood worldwide. But what does the Minister for Fisheries do? Well, last week he went out and said that if there had been a referendum for or against the EEA today, he would have voted no. Think of it, the government council responsible for the maritime food industry is opposed to the main agreement of Norwegian maritime food industry, and not just Norwegian maritime food industry, but the whole Norwegian export industry. It is comparable to the fact that an agricultural minister from the Central Party had said that he believes Norway has to become a member of the EU. That, I think, would actually be the theme of New Year's Eve. Such populist performances that the Minister for Fisheries came with do not give exactly cause for predictability. The working party is concerned with industrial development, more jobs and increased value creation in the private sector. Therefore, we will pursue an active industrial policy that facilitates the creation of value added and growth throughout the country. We're concerned that the government's mantra on nutrition neutrality has reset us. The government's cut-off in the instrument has also not contributed positively. The result is that almost no jobs are created in the private sector. The government is talking about migration, but the results of the policy are out of proportion to rhetoric. Under this government, 32 000 more jobs have been created at all, and two out of three in the public sector. I come from a part of the country with great opportunities, and a lot goes well, but leaning back and trusting that Norway has been vaccinated against changes in the crown price is a scary strategy. This is why the Labour Party believes that policy must be targeted in order to realise these opportunities. In our alternative state budget, therefore, there are proposals for a value creation programme in marine and land-based bioeconomy, we are proposing a regional accelerator programme for entrepreneurs, we are strengthening the clustering effort, and we are strengthening the work on mineral mapping, to mention something. Then we have to recognise that the state cannot adopt or fully finance new jobs. As I said, I come from a part of the country with great opportunities, but I have to admit that I come from a capital-poor part of the country. To put it that way, it's not to North Norway the biggest tax concessions go. They're probably getting a lot closer to the area we're now in. It is therefore important that the counties are able to do the job as a regional developer. While government cuts regional development funds, the Labour Party proposes a significant increase. But all of this is going to be too trivial to count if we lose the EEA Agreement. Erna Solberg reiterated to the dismalness before the 2013 elections that the Right should be the guarantor of a responsible economic policy. No government has been deeper down in our common savings. Can Erna Solberg now be the guarantor of the maintenance of the EEA Agreement by Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2323	2016 has been an eventful year in climate policy. Norway has ratified the Paris Agreement during the year. Work, in cooperation with the EU, on the framework for our joint commitments to greenhouse gas emission reductions continues. The size has also addressed a communication on energy policy leading climate policy. In cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have now reached an agreement on the state budget for 2017 which in turn strengthens the measures and raises the ambitions of climate policy significantly. To mention something, we continue the benefits of low- and zero-emission cars, we strengthen Enova, escalate the investment in biofuels and spend an additional hundreds of millions on rail and public transport. Climate policy is complicated and sometimes difficult to understand. Therefore, I am not surprised that there will be a discussion also about the budget agreement and the extent to which reductions in greenhouse gas emissions will result. Since this has become a topic today, I will link some brief comments to how we have come up with our numbers. When we estimate that the next year's emission reduction is more than 660,000 tonnes, it is based on figures from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Department of Transport Economics. We have presented what we think is a conservative and realistic estimate of emissions reductions next year. Nor have we included all the measures, because they are difficult to calculate, such as: bans on oil fires, railway and collective investment and climate action in municipalities. I record that others calculate different effects of our actions, but at the same time are not open with which methods they use, and how different measures are weighted. I think all the parties are well served to deal with the calculations made by our departments. During this debate I have noted that the confidence in the Workers' Party and SV is high in climate policy. There's no reason. A quick search in the media archives can refresh the memory of what marked the budget debate in the red-green period. For example, in October 2011, former Environment Minister Erik Solheim recognised that he was lacking tools to cut domestic greenhouse gas emissions. The red-green government also promised in the Soria Moria declaration to create greenhouse gas budgets – that never happened. Solheim's party trap and now the first candidate for SV to next year's major elections, Lars Haltbrecken, were deeply concerned that the red-green government cut in support of Enova and opened new oil fields, which again increased emissions. SVs Snorre Serigstad Valen spoke to the 2011 Class Battle: ‘Norway emissions are increasing again, following a decline in the financial crisis. It shows the need for a more offensive environmental policy.’ And then, one year later, the last red-green state budget was slaughtered by another of the SV's first candidates. Kari Elisabeth Kaski concluded in Technical Weekly that eight years of red-green government had not led to emission reductions. With the red-green government, there was a record in the number of diesel cars on Norwegian roads. With today's government, we put a record in the number of electric cars. The reality is that, like the lack of investment in research, infrastructure, business conversion and tax policy reform, the red-green period was eight lost years in climate policy. Fortunately, however, there are signs of improvement in the Labour Party's climate policy in their alternative state budget. Since they left the government offices, the Workers' Party has been talking about climate with a greater seriousness. Why? Well, because they've had to do it to be able to keep up with the politics of the government and the cooperation parties at all. Just as we pressed the Working Party in the climate policy in the opposition, we are now pushing them into position. The working party has copied our main lines and is trying to be more offensive by spending a little more money. It's not so nice that they can afford it when they raise taxes on ordinary people and business by 10 billion. kr. First of all, this is evidence that all parties in the Grand Duchy have stepped up their efforts to combat climate change. And I'm not going to criticize that, because we need to achieve our goals. But the Workers' Party should be careful to criticize us, unless they have completely forgotten their own accounts for their eight years. It is this government that has been invested in carbon capture and storage on the track again after the disaster in Mongstad. It is this government that has raised green shipping as a separate bet where we play on teams with Norwegian maritime nutrition. It is this government and the cooperation parties that together have been responsible for the efforts of the times in public transport in the big cities. The budget now adopted is the climate budget of the times. If we leave the slightly artificial discussion on the size of reductions and look at the content of the agreement, it is impressive, with a number of measures that will in the long term help reduce emissions. I am pleased with this budgetary unity and that we can now continue to develop the offensive climate policy that Norway needs. Actually, we have strictly given what they wanted when they put in government: a more offensive climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2352	Since the Right-Fremskritsparte government joined, the appropriations for road and track increased by 50 pst, or approximately 20 billion. kr. The need is great. Our main transport years are underdeveloped, and the 2017 budget makes an important contribution to the further development of the dual-track rail and a high-speed road network that connects the parts of the country. We build the road network faster now that the road company is established. Partly and divided road development is replaced by the complete development of transport corridors. We think it's as important to take care of the infrastructure we have as building new ones. That's why we're building down the maintenance run for both the road and the track. For good road safety, a good road surface is essential, and a well maintained railway provides fewer service interruptions and delays for trains, just to make the everyday journey of train commuters easier by contributing to predictability. The Party of Progress and the Government are reducing the use of tolls in new road projects. The State budget now establishes a compensation scheme for toll projects that will reduce the rates of established toll projects to the delight of the country’s drivers. We reduce car charges. We have previously reduced the registration fee, now we reduce the annual fee. The changes we make with the one-off charge make family cars with low emissions available to more people. This is good for road safety and lower emissions. The 2017 budget reduces car charges and tolls, while increasing road investment and reducing the level of maintenance. We show by this that it is possible to take several good grips at the same time. This debate has so far been interesting to follow. The Central Party representative, Slagsvold Vedum, believes that this government, and the Progress Party in particular, has a poor district policy by charging too much tolls. Then it's strange that the Center Party itself has not added a reduction in its budgets. The same is true of what we do with the new car price. I would also like to remind the Central Party that there is more road construction than ever to connect the country, just to make the distances and the road sections shorter, faster and safer between town and country. In addition, I heard that the SV representative Bergstø was concerned that some environmentally friendly cars were cheaper with this budget. Then my question becomes: Is it not so important for the environment and climate of SV, or is the law more important than climate and environment? The Labour Party representative Gahr Støre said in his speech that the country now needs a new government with a different policy. No, that's the last thing we need. We all remember well what happened during the eight years of the last government: the decline increased every year in traffic, on both road and track. We're reducing the maintenance run. For example, in 2012, the Railway Planning Resources of the Workers' Party amounted to approximately 50 million. kr for the whole country. It was their vision of how to build Norway. In the 2017 budget, following the agreement with the cooperation parties, the planning funds will be on a staggering 1.7 billion. NOK, or 35 times as much as the previous government had. I'm glad that the four parties agreed to strengthen the planning funds to outer intercity by 280 million. kr. The Progress Party is committed to spending money on important transport measures that make everyday travel easier for most people, using carrots and not whipping. We are therefore proposing that more people should be able to choose their mode of transport. When the government is criticized for spending too much money, you might want to go on your own and ask yourself the following question: Did we leave the infrastructure in a satisfactory state? Did we leave the infrastructure to increase competitiveness? The answer is no. That's why this government, together with its cooperation parties, prioritises spending a lot of money on transportation to give our next generations a better starting point. I heard that Hadia Tajik from the Workers' Party was up here and said that this government is doing nothing but what is done before. You just spend more money, you have no solutions. In the field of transport, I then have a valid question for the opposition: What kind of solutions are in their budgets? Time and again, I have seen road reforms and rail reform down. You have no solution. The only thing you can bring here is that there's going to be more bureaucracy. In the next sentence it is too wrong – then you have to cut the bureaucracy yourself, but you have no solutions. I encourage the opposition to come up with constructive criticism. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come The railway reform and road reforms show that this government is thinking new and different to build completely for the future, to make things smarter. Instead of just criticizing, we're building this country together. That's what other people should think about too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2386	There has been a long debate already, and I have to admit that I like best the posts that bring about the need for a new government. And the best posts to replace this government have come from the Right and Advance Party itself: like when the Minister of Finance said that our biggest challenge is to create new jobs. I fully agree, and the statistics are crystal clear. After four years with the Right and the Advance Party, almost no new jobs are created. or when the President of the Right repeats today's slogan that fewer people have to live from the State budget. I fully agree with that, and the statistics are crystal clear. After four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party, the number of bureaucrats is added to the new Norway records each year and employment is mostly concentrated in the country. or when the Progress Party Roy Steffensen says the most important thing is to have a job to go to. I fully agree with that, and the statistics are crystal clear. After four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party, the unemployment rate has fallen to a record level. So I fully agree with the Finance Minister, Greece and Steffensen: we need a new government that can put work to everyone as its main concern. Because, at the point after point, the government delivers nothing but empty words, and promises of action are replaced by “criminal force” in negotiations. Some of those who lose most of the passivity of the Right Party and the Advance Party are the unemployed. It is a serious backbone for this financial debate, and it seems as if the Right Party and the Advance Party have completely forgotten this: Since the government's accession, the unemployment rate has increased by about 30 pst. The share of work is now the lowest in 20 years. The freedom has been reduced to a high level. Almost no jobs are created in the private sector. In October, the Minister of Finance said that the holiday break has been reached. Fresh Nav numbers show, however, that unemployment has increased in the last two months, from the high-recorded level we saw this summer. In Stavanger, the figures from November are the highest ever measured. And what does the government do? A cutter in the effort to combat unemployment, both in the short term and in the long term. The action package, which in 2016 is 5 billion. kr, is cut to 4 billion. kr in 2017. Tax haven for the richest, who do not create new jobs, is the biggest investment in the budget. And despite record oil money usage, the government has not been able to afford more measures to combat unemployment. I think the Right Party and the Advance Party see unemployment – they see the statistics – but they continue as before. They continue on the ideological blind trail of tax cuts to the richest of the country. But if one had listened to people at home in the West, the policy would also have been different. Every day in the South West is another. There is now a policy that does not work. The front page of Stavanger Evening leaf the day after the budget was presented, said her. A family from Sandnes was interviewed and told us clearly that they would have better school than the small money you received in tax cuts. And when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance visited Rosenberg yard, the message from the trustees was clear: Treasures to the rich do not help us. They would have more powerful measures. TV 2 has done a huge job interviewing 550 unemployed people throughout the country and got back in response that only 1 out of 20 unemployed people seem to have done a good job. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party has different priorities – in our alternative budget one shows that it is possible to give different priorities. We have a more vigorous response to unemployment, with short-term measures that can increase activity now, and long-term measures that can create new, safe jobs. We are presenting a new offensive industrial policy in which to bet on sea winds, elves, carbon capture or, for that matter, the space industry – new areas that can create new, safe jobs. But perhaps most important is the effort in our budget to reverse youth unemployment. We have ten concrete proposals, perhaps the most important of which is Nav Ung, a targeted action to help more young people enter work or education. We cannot allow youth unemployment to continue to rise. It is time for the country to have a new government that sets work for everyone as its main cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2434	Earlier today, the representative Marianne Marthinsen said that if politics is to be given priority, this government does not deliver. It's fresh from a party that, first of all, just spends around 4 billion. kr less than the government, but not least from a party which in government had the largest economic space of action any Norwegian government has ever had. The economy was growing, and the oil price was historically high. Nevertheless, the number of patients in health queues increased; there were 15,000 more poor children, while the majority paid more in taxes. That was the result of the red-green priorities. In addition to the legacy of the Workers' Party, this government has dealt with the migration challenge of last year as well as an oil price in a free fall. Now let's see the points of light. New statistics from the SSB show that statistics are crystal clear: there have probably never been as many new enterprises created in Norway as last year, when more than 57,800 enterprises were established in the private sector. If this trend continues, we will end up with just over 60,000 new businesses in 2016. There are 110 000 start-ups in two years. So while the Workers' Party claims that jobs are not created in Norway, the truth is different. And – which I think the Prime Minister will particularly appreciate – the number of women entrepreneurs is higher than ever. It has something to say who's in charge of the country. The job of the future has already been created – and not only in the new creations that have come into existence in the private sector, but also in existing enterprises throughout the country, how many are now turning to a new reality. It says a little bit about understanding when the Workers' Party means tax increases of 10 billion. Norwegian business is now needed. And that's just the first bill. If the Workers' Party holds its electoral commitments, the tax bill will be between 25 billion. kr and 33 br. Extra kroner. The tax policy of the Workers' Party increases the cost of Norwegian business and prolongs the time it takes to speed up economic growth and value creation that secures Norwegian jobs. The alternative budgets show that there is a great difference between the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and their policies. They're criticizing us for 20 billion. kr in taxes, but keep half of it. They complained loudly about the adverse effects of the air passenger charge, but introduced it itself without any changes. They rushed against cutting off the strange arrangement of holiday money for the recipients of the daily allowance, now they cut it themselves. They called the removal of the inheritance tax usocial in 2013 but have not reinstated it in any of their alternative budgets. They believe that we have not discussed policy in these weeks as the State budget has been negotiated. On behalf of crazy people, hey? What does the Workers' Party think a government budget is – if not politics? Then I hear criticism from the representative of Hadia Tajik about the ABE reform, demands for more efficiency in the public sector. For the Workers' Party, obvious priorities are to spend as much money as possible, not what results are achieved. The working party should actually stop talking about investments in technology, innovation and conversion. They don't think it's possible to do things in a smarter, better and more efficient way. Realistically, the representative called it Hagebakken. However, for example: The Nordlandssjukehuset to reduce the rate of redundancy of heavy carbon separators by 40 pst. without additional resources beyond half a nursing position. It's about attitude and focus on what we're doing, said departmental supervisor Terje Tollåli at the lung ward at the hospital. The attitude of the Workers' Party is obvious that lower services will cost more. We know that good services can cost less. When the Workers' Party promised more money to the hospitals during the election campaign in 2013, it was because they would provide one million more treatments and investigations in 2017 than in 2012. That goal met the Right and Advance Party already in 2015. What sounds realistic for the Workers' Party is actual results with the Right and the Advance Party. It has something to say who's in charge. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre reminded us that the Labour Party spent the entire election campaign in 2013 warning against civil cooperation. Despite this, the voters were so saddened by the red-green and Labour Party leadership that they gave a solid majority to the bourgeois side. I believe that this budget – for work, for activity and for the green shift – provides a good basis for an equally solid majority for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2454	This government – and the Right and Advance Party on the Stortinget – has invested considerable resources in the field of education and research. In the first budget we presented in 2013, expenditure in the framework of research and education was over 64 billion. kr. This year's budget spends about 80 billion. kr. This goes to research efforts, 11 months of study support, record expansion of student housing and costly quality measures, among others. the field of teacher training undertaken by this government. This has been achieved, even the oil price in this government period has fallen from $110 in 2013 to today's level of about $50. This shows that we have prioritised knowledge and skills building. In the 2017 budget, much is allocated to investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge. It will reduce the transport costs of business, increase innovation and innovation and increase the skills of the population. These are investments in the future, investments for conversion and continued growth and prosperity. The action package presented in the 2017 budget is 4 billion. kr, and contain specific measures to combat unemployment. The measures are targeted at the regions and the sectors most affected. The package includes, inter alia: sound investments in value-creating research and innovation. Both petroleum research, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena and the Renew2020 will receive substantial funding. Our actions will have a good impact, and the important thing now is that we have been looking forward. As politicians in the oil nation of Norway, we are used to having a lot of money, and the money can sit something loose in budget time. The budget is large, but it contains many necessary investments for the future. But now it is time to see something more critical about how taxpayers' money is managed. It's more important than looking at how much of the taxpayers' money we politicians have to distribute. In the future, we need to focus much more on results and what we get back for the money. The entire education sector from primary to secondary education to the UH sector has received considerable funding, and many quality-enhancing measures have been implemented, such as teacher-lifting, real-time vocational education, structural reform and research efforts. Now we actually have to expect it to be delivered on both better quality and more value creation. We must give the sector real freedom, but we must also be clear that we are expecting results. In the Progress Party, we believe that the oil sector will continue and give us huge revenues for decades to come. But we are also aware that the future is uncertain, and that it may be less money to distribute to us politicians. In order to increase value creation in all sectors, we need to continue with the government's offensive policy. We must continue to improve the framework conditions for real value creations. It means lowering taxes and taxes even more, scrapping taxes on wealth and providing incentives for value-creating investment in research and business. We can no longer expect to spend hundreds of millions of dollars – not to mention billions – on symbolic items, public consumption and inefficient structures. Unemployment cannot be met by employing more people in the public sector. If we are to get real growth and value creation, there must be more jobs in the private sector. We have to be clear that it is in the private business that value creation takes place. There are now many new jobs to be created, and that development must continue. We cannot continue just to increase the public sector in Norway. As Adam Smith wrote in the prosperity of the nations, I have never seen anything particularly good done by those who claim to act for the good of the people. I'm going to end up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2474	For the future, we need to focus on the core tasks and prepare for cutting public consumption. We need to make more sure that the money used works as intended. Only in this way can we ensure a functioning welfare state for our descendants. With the budget available today, we are on the right track to secure a functioning welfare state for our descendants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2477	Now we need new ideas and better solutions," said Knut Arild Hareide when he said last week that the Christian People's Party did not see any basis for continuing the budgetary negotiations. The statement is confusingly similar to Right’s slogans in the 2013 election campaign, and it is tempting to argue with this statement, as the judgment of the Right’s Government Project. But I'll leave it. The budget negotiations that have taken place each year, and not least this year, are too serious to that, and their results show with all possible clarity that minority governments acting in this way provide unforeseeable and uncertain business and most unserved people. It's exciting and fun to keep up with the debates for us politicians and for the media, but for businesses and people who live in the world, it's the result that counts. And that's very unpredictable. I hear the representative Nesvik and others say that we now have the debate in openness at Stortinget, highlighting it as something good. That's not what we're experiencing. We experience that the negotiations are behind closed doors, between four parties, in Stortinget and elsewhere, as well as in a majority government. The difference is uncertainty and unforeseeability and concerns about the government crisis. One might wonder if the trust in our political system is maintained through this. It is a good budget for the country, says the Prime Minister. That's what she said last year. However, budgetary agreements have held surprising priorities and surprising impacts each year. There have been incurrences that have not been investigated before their adoption, as a result of time constraints and the way in which the minority government conducts the budgetary negotiations, and deposits that have subsequently been found to have a negative impact on businesses and citizens. I'm thinking about deposits like that. the aircraft seating charge in the year’s budget, which was not conclusive and which has resulted in the closure of the Rygge Airport and the loss of several hundred jobs. It was not a good budget for the country. In this year’s budgetary agreement, the surprises include: cut to hospitals, and that there are few ‘real repriorities’ to quote Left’s representative Terje Breivik. Instead, the parties have agreed on higher dividends, some changes in the charges, high use of the cross-sectional item and reduced estimates of the number of refugees, such as the discovery of a long list of small and large items that the batches prioritise. I understand that all of these small and big things are important. Nevertheless, I have to ask: are these what we have been waiting for? I also know that it is the car package and the green shift that are said to have been the most difficult and important, and it is a pleasure to see that the budgetary agreement follows a step on the road from the Workers' Party to appropriations for collective and rail, and that it is a total increase that now has a clear ambition to achieve a major technology shift in the transport sector, among other things. through a CO 2 fund. A radical shift in the transport sector is the key to success in the comprehensive climate commitments undertaken by Norway through the Paris Agreement. But as I was in a difficult time, as Siv Jensen stressed, we would think that the government was giving priority to tightening the budget instead of increasing the long-term spending of the state with a little bit more to small and large issues. It's not a sustainable budget. This is not a budget for conversion and sustainability, but for increasing the use of oil money. The budget of the Workers' Party is a budget for work, opportunities and security. It is a budget that addresses the major challenges facing Norway through four pillars: work, competence, health and climate. The Labour Party will facilitate value creation and growth throughout the country. To continue meeting the unemployment crisis, we will target a package of measures of 1 billion. kr. If we're to succeed in working for everyone and opportunities for everyone, we need to focus more on competence throughout our lives. The Labour Party therefore proposes, inter alia: over 250 million. kr extra for reading, writing and calculating guarantees and more teachers in primary school. In order to provide safe and well-being for all, we need to prioritise common hospitals and well-being in municipalities rather than tax cuts for those who have the most of them. That's why we're keeping our hospital promise and increasing the budget for the municipal sector by 3 billion. kr. Through our low-emission package, we will convert Norway into a low-emission society. Expected emissions cut in 2030 CO 2 equivalent compared to 2015 is 10 782 975 tonnes in total. These ambitions for Norway characterise our alternative budget – a budget for building the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2506	Norway is a good country to live in, a country with opportunities for everyone. In life-cycle studies we are still in the top level of the world's best country to live in, and so we should still have it. The Norwegian economy has had the wind, thank you for the oil, but he has also made us vulnerable. We experienced this in the summer of 2014 when the oil price was halved. In February 2015, the Central Bank Manager used the term ‘specialisation-to-conversion’ to describe the Norwegian economy. The fall in the oil price has hit South and West hard, and many have experienced loss of work. The government also prioritises targeted measures in the South and Western regions in the 2017 budget. Throughout this ageing period, our government's most important job is to create more jobs and to stimulate growth in private competitive business. Then the government's tax policy is leading with tax credits, an important element to make it attractive to invest in businesses in Norway. The working party's solution to increasing taxes and charges is definitely not the demand of the Norwegian industry in the vulnerable economic situation. It is in the private sector that new jobs must be created – then policies must be set up to stimulate increased investment and growth in business and jobs. One must create more, not more treasure. By giving priority to transport, knowledge, education and research, we see that the policy is working. Recordedly many entrepreneurs are created, and competitiveness is strengthened. One experiences a cautious optimism. Conversion is a common word in this ageing period – the transformation from an economy where oil and gas revenues have dominated the economic growth we have had. Now we have to blame ourselves for the fact that oil and gas in the future will not be the same engine behind our economic growth. As a back ground for the transition to a green shift, we have the obligations of the Paris Agreement, which was concluded on 12 December last year and entered into force on 4 November this year. Norway has all the means to cope with the transition – we have capital, we have priority to invest in research, education, knowledge and technology, and thus to create more skills jobs. We're on the right track. We have to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but at the same time we have to have multiple thoughts in our head at the same time. In the 2017 budget, an increase in fuel taxes on both petrol and diesel is proposed, a proposed increase in CO 2 tax on mineral oil, an increase in the tax on HFC and PFC greenhouse gases and the creation of a CO 2 fund as part of a green tax shift. Norway is a long country, and we have a pronounced policy that we want to make up, business and activity throughout the country. We want big cities, towns, towns and branches as a natural part of what is Norway. We must then have different measures and bets when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions. They must be experienced by people as reasonable, understandable and feasible. In cities, public transport has an incredibly important role to play, and in the draft budget, there is a large-scale commitment to green transport through the prioritisation of rail, public and urban environmental agreements and a charging scheme that stimulates environmentally friendly emissions from driving. Every fifth Northman lives outside the city or town and can make little use of collective solutions. Many people are totally dependent on a car to get from home to work, to kindergarten and school. It is therefore positive that the government sees the need to differentiate the tools, for example: by increasing the amount of commuting, proposing to reduce tolls outside the big cities, and reducing the annual tax compensates for something for those who have no alternative to cars. One of the industries experiencing great growth is tourism and tourism. Innovation Norway and NHO Travel Life report a record summer – there is a huge increase in overnight stays and visits to tourist attractions around the country. Both foreign and Norwegian tourists can take a holiday in Norway. Of course, a favourable exchange rate is important to the rest of the world, and the world's turmoil may also make several Nordics prefer their homeland. Then it is important that living communities are both urban and rural – living businesses that meet those who visit us. The draft budget takes care of the need for development and growth throughout the country. It is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2540	I don't know how well Heidi Nordby Lunde joined the Røjre election campaign in 2013, but I have a look-up here from the Evening Post, dated September 2nd, which is about the right at Erna Solberg and Bent Höie adding 12 billion. kr on the table as part of his plan for hospitalization. There is not one word there that if you reach the goal without the money, the whole bet will not come, or if you overfill the Workers' Party's promises, not all of the money will come. They were quite clear on a sum right in front of the election, and it might have been crucial for many when they were going to decide which party they would choose in the big shot two weeks later. At least I don't think they would have thought that the hospitals were going to be the bagroll of this budget, that it was the hospitals that were going to take the load because the government parties couldn't agree, and that was where to pick up the last sum in the last round. Maybe we shouldn't have been so surprised, because Siv Jensen was asked – for those of us who followed the press conference when she presented the state budget – just about these 12 billion, if they weren't in place, if there wasn't a government promise. Then Siv Jensen answered something like that that if you mean a promise from the Right Leader, you get to take it up with the Right Leader, I'll present the budget on behalf of the Government. So I think the representative Nordby Lunde and the Right are going to walk a little quietly in the doors of this case, because here you might have been able to give quite a lot of hope to the hospitals about more money, and have sent out clear signals that there was a need for more money to do more tasks – not that the hospitals would get a big shot at the last turn – and that that was exactly what was going to help provide better hospitals in Norway. This budgetary process has been shaped by the government over and over again. In a way, one should almost think it was planned, because all this chaos with leaks, speculations, negotiations and analyses has made it impossible for us to have time to discuss the real issues here. We have e.g. I didn't get to talk so much about the 12 billion that never came. There was never a good time to talk about why the government didn't have 200 million to plan assets at intercity. We could discuss the climate in more detail. Instead, there was a debate on diesel and petrol charging. And now we're getting more proposals here – in the last few years – that neither the Stortinget nor those affected by the decisions will have time to deal with. The proposals will only be adopted this evening. I read on the Internet what many of the suggestions will mean. I see that the Medical Association and the nurses are absolutely cursed and believe that this is one of the biggest lifting breaks ever from a government, and it is clear that it makes an impression. I believe that the entire Norwegian public should like to have time to evaluate, debated and talked about whether this was the right way to do things. Instead, it is now only adopted, completely without a proper debate on the matter. Once again, we end up – we hear in this hall – in a kind of black-and-white game between the different parties. No one wants to take responsibility for these hospital cuts. The Prime Minister said in the Political Quarter this morning that it was at least not her and the government, and then we just have to assume that it is the Christian People's Party and the Left who have pressed through the fact that it was to be cut in the hospitals. It is sad that there is such an important institution for so many who have become this year's bag fee, and who have had to take the last big cut in the last little inside swing of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2553	A basic good health service is something we can be proud of in Norway. Of course, we usually hear about things that don’t work – about patients who are mistreated in hospitals, about the elderly who don’t get enough food and drink during the day at the hospital, and about addicts who don’t get enough rehabilitation – and then it’s also the health care shortages that drive new ideas and better solutions. When the Right-Fremskrit party government took over almost four years ago, the health cows were too long, and for many patients, unnecessarily long waiting for treatment. There was little adaptation to the individual patient and little freedom of choice. Because of the red-green scepticism for collaboration with private actors, we were getting a two-part healthcare service where only those with good finances could buy quick health care. The treatment offered to those who are struggling with intoxication and mental illness was directly decentralized by the red-green government. To meet the challenges, the government quickly implemented new solutions. We're strengthening the hospital budgets. Our government has in all our four proposals for state budgets facilitated higher growth in patient treatment than the red-green government has adopted over eight years. With the budgetary unity between the government and the cooperation parties, the strengthening of the hospital budget next year is 1.5 billion. kr. So if the Workers' Party believes that this is a very bad hospital budget for 2017, it is also a tough sentence on their own willingness to prioritize hospitals as they themselves had the opportunity to do so and a purely majority in the Stortinget. It may be that in the same way as at birth – it has been talked about in the past, I also have extensive experience with that very thing – it is also the case in politics that it is more comfortable to look at it than to do it. Our government has prioritised hospitals considerably higher than the red-green government did when they had the opportunity. The red-green government actually had the largest economic space of action some Norwegian government ever had. Nevertheless, the health cows increased and people paid more in taxes with the Workers' Party at the rudder. Today there are 80,000 fewer in health queues. The representative of Truls Wickholm cannot say that the hospital budgets are being cut. Hospital budgets are being strengthened. And then it's actually that what's most crucial is the results. What is most crucial for patients is the results of Norwegian healthcare. The government invests more in health, but at the same time we have to keep getting more health out of the resources we have available. Today, we have a government that both strengthens the hospital budgets year after year and that launches measures that provide more health for the money that is granted. It's given results. 80,000 fewer people wait and more patients are treated. The growth in private health insurance has flattened, and the trust in hospitals is record high. We don't think it's right to blackpaint the situation of hospitals when the fasitis is as good as it is now. We have introduced a cancer package that ensures safer cancer treatment. We have reintroduced the red-green rule that patients with drug problems and mental health problems should be given priority in healthcare. And we've given patients greater freedom of choice through free treatment choices. We have implemented a very important health promise in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left parties. We have shown that new ideas create better solutions. It's impracticability. This weekend there was a happy agreement on the budget between the government and the cooperation parties. Our budgetary settlements with the Christian People's Party and the Left have made good budgets even better every year. The four parties have many conflicting ambitions in the health field. One of them is to increase efforts for children and young people. Let's do that, for example. by ensuring better health and school health services in municipalities. The government parties and the cooperation parties have invested there, where the Workers' Party did not bet when they were in government. In our four fiscal years, the municipalities have received 1 billion. kr more to this area. This means more health sisters, more physiotherapists, more midwives, more psychologists and more doctors out in the prevention services. At a time when more children and young people than ever before say that they are struggling with mental health problems, the most important job we do is to give them someone to talk to, someone to get help with. Map of cancer package sequences: What is the meaning of the individual package sequences? A good acquaintance of mine told me that it means that I feel safe, that means it's the same team that meets me on the phone and for treatment, it's the same doctor that follows me up and answers questions willingly. When Wenche, my good acquaintance, tells how safe she has felt, and how important it has been to her and her family that the course of cancer packages has been introduced, I know that it means something to work with politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2575	We see increasing inequality, in the world and in Norway, and even more so than before, it is crucial whether you are inside or outside the labour market. Moreover, the world has agreed to take the climate seriously, and it obliges us all, even though some seem to believe that it is possible to bypass the bend. The green shift I'll be among the most used words in today's debate. Conversion, competence, education and research are at stake. Those words describe the challenges we have, and the solutions we have to find. But succeeding in a green shift and getting more people working with new skills is demanding. One might seem as difficult as the other. We're already a educational community. In general, there are two million Northmen who, on a day like this, either go to kindergarten, go to school, study or research — or they work in some of these places. That's a very good starting point, but we politicians have to do more. That's absolutely necessary. More children should go to kindergarten, not least children with a minority background. Then a sharp increase in the cash support would be the wrong way to go. The working party will build more kindergartens and have more skilled employees: 200 million. So we're going to spend 100 million dollars on space. kr to escalate a crew standard. The school shall be a good place to learn for everyone, a place for development, mastering and curiosity-driven learning. That's a lot of teachers. We notice that even though the Right argues against more teachers elsewhere than in this Chamber, they will vote for more teachers today after the budget agreement has changed. That's interesting. The Labour Party has long been committed to more teachers and early efforts. We want a read, write and calculate guarantee, and we spend over 100 million dollars. kr on it. We're also going to spend over 300 million dollars. kr on several teachers, and we disagree with the government's cut of 600 teaching positions in high school. Several have to experience the school as a good place to be, too, without bullying and dissatisfaction. If they don't, they won't learn. It is good that something is allowed when it comes to bullying, but that is not enough. We're proposing a total of 100 million. kr to combat bullying in our alternative budget. Bad mental health is about more than bullying. Therefore, we need to offer a low threshold for children and young people, and it needs to be built up. The school health service, the student health service and free regulars for young people are something we spend money on. We must prevent apostasy. One in four does not complete high school, even though we know that a degree or a degree from a university or university will be absolutely necessary in the labour market. Several should take up the profession; there is a future for the many who do not have a completed education. For this reason, we focus on professional subjects: we grant a wide range of measures, including: increased apprenticeship grants and 100 million. kr for more equipment. The government failed to grant the masterpiece money to a single new place of study — despite the fact that there have never been as many qualified applicants in the first survey as this year. At the same time, we have a record high unemployment rate among young people under 30 years of age. Does the government feel that training for more people is not necessary? We have not yet received a good answer to this, but it is therefore good that the agreement provides several hundred more places of study. The Labour Party will have 3,000 new places to study and 800 new places to study because we believe that education and competence will get people to work. In this budget, the way universities and colleges are financed is changed. The government has put a proposal on the table that includes: makes the youngest universities and most of the higher education institutions poor. Now this is corrected by means of compensation, but in reality that means that there is no majority in the Biggest for these changes. The working party will postpone this. We want to know what the consequences are, especially for the major bachelor's courses for nurses, engineers and, for so long, teachers. A minority government should seek a broad and stable majority over time that could have agreed on such a system change. Finally, a cozy man who lives in my municipality – not so far from me – gets 93 million. kr in tax cuts thanks to this government, according to the Class struggle. Kjell Inge Smoke is his name. In Asker, the church must close the night offer for addicts. There will be no daily staff in the russian homes that were recently built. Children and young people in asylum reception in the municipality have been cut off their offer. Privates and others living in municipal dwellings have recently received market rent, and it is quite high in Asker. This is the description of increased inequality — in reality. Those who wear it get harder, and those who have a lot get more. This could have been avoided with the municipal arrangements of the Workers' Party. Asker would have gotten $25 million. and drug users would probably have improved their daily lives. In other municipalities, the school suffers. The local economy is very important if we are to bet on a good school and good health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2600	Where did we get that? "But who said that our days Is that supposed to be free? That they'd be spinning around. on the wheel of happiness in our heart and every night stop winning? Who said that? Where did we get that? Who said that our lives would be easy to build? That the bricks were square balloons That messed up in place by itself? Who said that? Where did we get that? There were pills for everything: nerves, persistent cough and anaemia. But who said that the shortcuts shock was executable? At Mountain Gradients never snowed to? And that just we Would you let go of the tunnel? Yeah, who said that? Where in the world did we have that from?" This is a poem by the poet Kolbein Falkeid from Haugesund and Rogaland and the inspiration for me in the work we are doing now to combat unemployment. Norway sat on the green branch, and Rogaland sat on the greenest of the green branches. The 2017 government budget continues its fight against unemployment and will contribute to a reduction in unemployment beyond 2017. The budget is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. We must prevent people from falling out of the labour market and important social arenas. Therefore, the exceptionally high level of labour market measures is maintained and the possibility of receiving daily allowances under leave is extended. A new youth effort will provide jobseekers under 30 years of age with a job-oriented offer after eight weeks of leave, starting in Rogaland, South West. The state budget for 2017 will establish a fast track into the labour market for refugees with a requested competence, using e.g.: wage subsidies in combination with Norwegian training. It is important to prevent young people from entering into a passive life. The government has therefore proposed a number of times – and now we are finally given the opportunity to introduce it from 1 January – the obligation of activity for beneficiaries of social assistance under 30 years. The budget for next year continues and reinforces the government's commitment to work, activity and change. Lower crowns contribute to new growth in competitive business, while low interest rates and striking fiscal policies increase domestic demand. Both the weakening of the crown and the tax reductions carried out also have an impact in 2017, as well as trade, knowledge and research, where the government is charging significant amounts. Norway needs more private jobs to contribute to the State budget, not more living in the state budget. For the Right, it is therefore important to contribute to job creation, and that is our highest priority task. We're going to build more road and more track, and we're going to guarantee companies competitive conditions. There are signs of improvement in the economy, but the rise we see now is vulnerable. If business is exposed to large tax increases of $10 billion, as proposed by the Workers' Party, the rise can be rapidly reversed to decline. The Government proposes, among other things: 4 B.C.E. to specific measures to combat unemployment, of course targeting the South and West countries and the most affected regions and industries of the backlog in the petroleum industry. I am therefore pleased that the government also says that there is a high level of readiness to step up efforts beyond the year if progress is to be made, because it is important to avoid the fact that unemployment is falling at such a high level as it did when the Workers' Party ran in the 1990s. The government's priorities include: 650 million. kr for maintenance in municipalities and 100 million. kr for the maintenance of hospital buildings. In my municipality of Haugesund, it's worth 35 million. kr in addition to the corresponding amount entered in the current year's budget. We have hundreds of millions in other areas, and we are continuing the labour market measures. I am particularly interested in the fact that in 2017 young people who drop out of high school will have the opportunity to work and activity by changing today's legislation that keeps them out of the way. Today, young people are entitled to secondary education within five years of the start of the training. If they do not complete in time, they must wait until they have reached the age of 25 before they are eligible for further education. There's been a fast track into Nav for a lot of young people, as the red-greens did. It changes this government. The 2017 government budget continues its fight against unemployment and, in my opinion, will contribute to a reduction in unemployment in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2669	It would have been tempting to use the whole article to comment on the last speaker, where one of the code words that goes back many places is the Workers' Party, and there are different references to when we ran, not just ten years ago – we have heard that many times – but now the representative compares the current situation with the situation in the 1990s, when the Workers' Party also ruled. I want to give a well-meaning advice to the government and its supporters here in Stortingen to focus on what you're actually responsible for, and that's the situation today. So we have the highest unemployment rate in modern times, at a time when the government has chosen to spend record oil money on ineffective tax reliefs that cannot be proven to provide any particular employment at all. So that's the advice given. But that's not what I was going to use my post for, because on the health and care side, we're actually facing three main challenges in the years to come, as I see it. One is that we need to get even more pressure on the work of preventive health and care services in our country, simply because it will prevent a lot of disease, a lot of suffering for many who struggle with their lives, if we succeed, but not least because we also have a public health service that we have to succeed in lowering demand. In other words, we must contribute to and support proposals such as those we have. In our alternative budget, young people who feel that life is difficult, stressful and challenging are to be met by adults in school health services and in the firm offices, where we, for example, have to meet. suggests removing the special section for scheduled visits. We suggest that children and young people once again get fruit and vegetables in high school to learn healthy eating habits early in life, we suggest starting work on daily physical activity in school, and we suggest a test project where 50 schools in Norway will test out what all other Western countries have, namely a single school meal in the name of public health. The second dimension we have to succeed in Norway is to defend the public fissure layer that our health services are. While in many other countries insurance schemes in which private individuals insure themselves use their own private wallet to access quality health services, we have chosen to do so jointly in Norway. We've chosen to do it over the tax bill, through popularism, where we've been paying for it together since the 1970s. It has produced very good results for each individual in Norway by the fact that there are no major social class divisions between those who have access to world-class healthcare and those who do not already have money. In addition, this is a very effective way of dealing with little bureaucracy compared to other countries, but what we are seeing now is a move towards a more two-tier healthcare service where people and businesses who, for various reasons, have the opportunity to insure themselves through so-called private health insurance can increasingly be offered different types of treatment and faster assistance than people who have to deal with public hospitals. There's a development I'm going to spend all my time here on Stortinget to fight. It challenges the entire basic idea of Norwegian healthcare, and therefore I believe it is absolutely essential that we politicians here in Stortinget are also willing to pay for it a public, generous and efficient hospital service. Therefore, it is quite noticeable that today's government parties have so far not been close to delivering on their own hospital lifts, but in addition a late night hour here in negotiations with the middle parties have chosen to weaken their already weak hospital budget by almost 0.5 billion. kr to in this context. We deliver on our hospital lifts and propose over 1 billion. Compared to the government’s original proposal – now it will strengthen further, with almost 1.5 billion. kr over what is going to be adopted later this evening. The last dimension is how we organise care services in municipalities. We're going to get more people who live longer in this country. It is very good, but it will challenge the way we organise care services, especially the elderly, and therefore it is absolutely vital that we think new things about organisation, about quality, about new technologies. But even here, we don't know that this will cost money. That's why our proposal is 3 billion. in the case of increased income for municipalities, it is essential that the oldest be met with dignity and care next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2680	It is not just the Storting that is debating and adopting budgets at this time. It also does the municipalities and municipalities of the country. Local politicians are to create a budget for safe and good kindergartens, a forward-looking school, a good and dignified care for the elderly, and they are to ensure that no one falls through the security network that our welfare society should be. State policies, on their side, are designed to create budgets for better implementation in higher education, better collective provision, county roads, racial protection and boat routes. In addition, they shall all facilitate new jobs, integration and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. If our local politicians are to succeed in doing the job that we at Stortinget and people out there expect them to do, we must also facilitate that job in a proper way. There's a fall in the bulk of the population. Despite the fact that the government is setting a new record in the use of oil money, they still cannot give priority to municipal services for children and the elderly. While the government chooses to placate civic cracks with money from the oil fund, local politicians do not have the opportunity to plan school and care for the elderly for the future. They must relate to the size of the population that they receive from the majority of population, and it is a scheme that covers, to a large extent, the bills that lie there in terms of population growth, increased pension costs and increased payments for social assistance. Too many municipalities don't even go to zero. For this reason, many local politicians are currently sitting and kissing in areas where there is a need to do much more. The bill for the tax cuts of the country's richest is passed on to people most in the form of cuts in welfare offers and increased property tax. It's increased by 36 pst. since the Right Party and the Advance Party took over in government. We see that problems are pushed on to the next government, and the difficult priorities in 2017 are left to local elected representatives. There's no particular style about it. We have a government that has taken the term ‘depreciation’ to a new level. We have e.g. a Minister for Transport who, last week, concluded that poorer road standards are the responsibilities of county councils, whereas this week, or more specifically today, the government is cutting further in the county budget as part of the budgetary agreement. It's one of many examples that the distance between what the government says and what it does is great. But first of all, there's a distance between the government's rhetoric of conversion and the results it delivers on that very thing. It is a great paradox that we first have about 130 000 unemployed in Norway, and second, the tasks in the municipalities are in line. More employees are needed almost everywhere in kindergartens and primary schools, and in secondary education there is a alarming need for more and new vocational teachers. In the care of the elderly there is a need both for people, for construction and for new technologies, and in county transport there is a need for investment, maintenance and new climate solutions. The third part of the paradox is that the government is pouring oil billions without creating new jobs. The government should spend less money on tax cuts for those who have the most from before, and more money on getting people to work and at the same time arming the municipalities for the future. I would say it is particularly disappointing to cut at 330 million. kr for particularly resource-intensive services, which are intended to cover offers to those who need it the most, for example. because you have severe disabilities or are seriously ill, is not settled in a budgetary settlement phased into 15 billion. new oil crowns. The working party suggests using 3bn kr more than the government of the municipalities and counties. We do that in order to be able to give all children a good start in kindergarten and school, because municipal welfare services are crucial to equalising social differences, and because many more could get work and pay instead of leave from Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2695	The budget negotiations in the autumn have shown us the intensity of contrasts in Norwegian climate policy. In particular, we've seen it when two extremes are going to try to agree. When the budget agreement was presented on Saturday evening, the Prime Minister said that the climate agreement has always been seen as a minimum. A very admirable statement – especially when the Prime Minister himself has to bear the primary responsibility for two months of climate frustration at his closest supporters the Christian People's Party and the Left. I have a great deal of understanding of the frustration, because there is no reality in what the Prime Minister said about the government having the climate agreement as a minimum framework. We can sum it up this way: four budgets, four possibilities, failure each time. Not once in four years and four budget proposals, the government has made proposals for climate action that arouses climate enthusiasm or strengthens climate reconciliation. The government’s actual approach is neither a maximum nor a minimum understanding of climate reconciliation and the climate challenge. Climate is almost a non-issue for the government. It does not help with cheap rhetoric from the country's prime minister or, for that matter, from the energy and environmental spokesperson in Right Tina Bru. But the Left and Christian People's Party should have so that in all these four budget proposals they have put their feet down and through their budgetary agreements prevented a climate-damaging starting point for Norway. But this time we also see that unfortunately it was not a budget agreement that cuts emissions significantly, or that clearly shows a path up to 2030. In contrast to many other countries, where emissions are falling, emissions in Norway are rising. It is also uncertain what the budgetary agreement will actually produce from emission effects in 2017. 2030 is not far ahead. In 13 years we'll have cut the emissions by 40 pst. It is urgent to take concrete action, and therefore the Labour Party promoted well over 40 climate proposals in February, and we are now following this in our alternative state budget. We believe it is important to get started quickly in implementing the most effective measures. Among other things, based on the Agency's 2030 Climate Action and Emissionways Report, the Workers' Party points to four key strategic areas where the potential for emissions reduction is high. There is zero-emission technology in road transport, biofuels, green shipping and carbon capture and storage. All of these are areas where we have stronger efforts than the budget agreement adds. Unlike the government, we have chosen to estimate the outcome of the proposals we are promoting by 2030. Our proposals will cut emissions in the non-quota sector by more than 10 million tonnes in 2030, based on the figures operated by the Environment Directorate. I miss the fact that the government chooses to do the same with the draft budget they have presented. In order to take some areas: in terms of zero emissions in the transport sector, we suggest using 304 million. kr more for the construction of infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles in the transport sector – 100 million. kr more than the budget agreement provides. This is the basis for the success of zero-emission cars from 2025 in the new car sales. Without building an infrastructure across the country, we will of course not be able to expect that we will achieve such a goal. We want to introduce a CO 2 fund using a model from the NOx fund for business transport, and we believe that it needs to be in place as soon as possible. We believe it is a danger to wait until 2020, and one must have a clear ambition that it will come into place faster than just what is in the budget agreement that exists. We're going to spend another 100 million. kr for zero emission solutions in ferry traffic. We phase in biofuels and do what is perhaps most important, which is to set clear requirements in the future, in both 2025 and 2030, as a basis for investments in Norwegian biofuel production – which we heard earlier today was absolutely necessary to bring up sustainable biofuels in the market to be established. We will continue to invest in carbon capture and storage, and will add that we will also continue to explore the possibilities for Norwegian cap to be used as a future European stockpiles of CO 2. In total, there is no doubt that in the three years and at the beginning of the fourth, there is a majority in this room for more powerful climate action than the majority currently established in the budget agreement. Let's get to the climate targets that are set at 40 pst. By 2030, we are totally dependent on having a government that fully accepts the climate challenges and the ability to do something with them. Unfortunately, we don't have that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2725	Now that we're entering the fourth year of the Solberg government, we have to be able to establish that we're moving towards four lost years in business policy. We have a situation in the country where new jobs are scarcely created in the private sector, and the jobs created come in the public sector. This is a long-term problem. Under the Stoltenberg government, 360 000 new jobs were created in Norway, two out of three in the private sector. And although there is a broad consensus that we need to convert large parts of Norwegian business, there is no active business policy to build up during this transition. Storing messages, strategies and bets are not available. A repetition of what is coming, for example: The bioeconomy strategy, which came last week, is that they have good problem descriptions, but are deficient in measures. In labour and industrial policy, this government has a very poor result. Our competitiveness is influenced by how effectively we use the country's resources and our capacity for innovation and transformation. Today, one third of the population is out of work, and employment among young people is expected to be the lowest in over 20 years of age. As a result, our ability to convert is weakened. We can't afford that. We see that the inequalities among people are increasing here in the country. The working party believes that the government is on the wrong track and that the development needs to be reversed. Small differences among people are one of our most important competitive advantages and have contributed to our having a workforce that is among the most productive in the world. Those who are unemployed don't need a new pile of papers about the situation description they stand in, they know well, they need action that takes. They don't want any more worthless days, living a life with mountain and valley tracks, experiencing rejections. They want a job, so they can support their family. TV 2 follows 550 unemployed people, and in this context they have also found that there is only 5 pst. by the people who believe that Erna Solberg and the government are doing a good enough job against unemployment. Our alternative budget will give the country a new direction. We will stimulate job security and job security through targeted efforts on the food budget to raise employment and reduce unemployment. The Workers' Party will make it more attractive to engage in business in Norway and believe that economically responsible policies, a good tax regime for businesses, less bureaucracy, increased investment across the country and a commitment to competence are general and fundamental instruments to achieve that objective. We have proposals for specific investments in industries that we believe have natural advantages, and we want a complete instrument tool, from idea to invoice. It would have been especially important to make new investments in the marine environment and in the blue and green bioeconomy. We believe that the public must contribute to research and innovation that can promote conversion and strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry, and we are proposing a 1 billion package of measures. kr more than the government came in to increase the level of activity and remedy the situation of those who have lost their jobs in the South West. We also have our own climate package that builds up under new industries and improves technology and reduces emissions in existing industries. The government's climate accounts are still behind our proposal. The government has weakened Investinor. With the majority opposed, they also had to reluctantly agree to bet on ESA's voluntary space programme. They cut regional development funds, cut into tree-based innovation programmes and had less focus on the eco-innovation scheme than the opposition. They have also been concerned about increasing the number of temporary staff, making the living situation of employees more demanding. That's not what equips us for conversion. We are concerned that passive industrial policy also helps us to lag behind in technological development. A report by the Nordic Council shows that Norwegian industry is dependent on both Swedish and Danish digitalisation. For us, the oil industry and huge revenues generated by natural resources are important in terms of common well-being and provide important jobs along the coast, but also in a global perspective. We are at the forefront of technology development and the best climate solutions. Existing competences and technologies can be used for the conversion to new products in other industries. In order to maintain today's welfare level, we need to double exports by 2040, according to the OECD. In order to be able to fulfill, it takes more than fine words in groceries. There is a need for content and proper action and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2750	The Central Party wants a community of services close to people and value creation across the country. Those who share our view that the State budget should contribute to a policy of distribution that balances both geographical and social differences can safely support the Centre's alternative budget proposals. The Central Party has made substantial adjustments to the government's draft budget, both in terms of transfers to the local and regional sectors. This is absolutely necessary if we are to include the whole of Norway in our aspirations for social development in 2017. These are equivalent opportunities for the development of jobs and for access to public services such as school, health and care. The draft budget of the Central Party increases the total transfers to the local government sector by over 4.7 billion. kr. This is 2 billion. kr more in the municipal framework and 1 billion. kr more in the framework of the counties. In addition, what is needed is for the municipal sector to be able to perform tasks assigned to it in the context of the integration of refugees and the provision of services to people with disabilities. For example, when the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Government boasts of their commitment to the municipal sector, they mention: not cut within the 2017 budget of 330 million. kr for resource-intensive services. I had really believed that this had been corrected in the budget agreement we were presented on Saturday, but unfortunately that was not the case. It will be very challenging for municipalities to maintain the offer of the weakest when the government receives support to cut back on these reimbursement schemes. I had really believed that the Christian People's Party and the Left had prioritised this higher. In 2015, the majority of the government’s proposals for a new income system for county municipalities were adopted. This year's budget proposes a new income system for municipalities. The cost keys of the income system shall be adjusted at regular intervals. I believe that, too, but the changes that the government seems to be getting support for are far more than an update. Both for the counties and for the municipalities, there is a redistribution that destroys the possibility of providing equivalent services throughout the country. The district councils and district councils are the big losers. There are some exceptions to what the government chooses to call ‘involuntary small’ municipalities, but the fact is that the new income system for municipalities brings 92 new municipalities under the income guarantee scheme, INGAR. These municipalities are losing 500 million. kr in income when they have to bear the full effect of the conversion in a few years. The government should learn from all the problems caused by the conversion of the cost keys for county municipalities in 2015. It was considered that a total accumulation had to be corrected by the introduction of a loss compensation scheme. On the part of the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, we said in a joint remark that the income system was based on a number of new cost keys and factors that were not adequately illuminated. The coastal communities in particular, responsible for boat and ferry operations, were underfunded. Now, with the support of the Left, Stortinget makes the same mistake in converting the income system for municipalities. The consequences are not well enough investigated. This is sad to see. The Central Party is strengthening regional and regional policy appropriations by 600 million. kr in relation to the structure of the government. If we had come up to the level under the red-green government, we would have to put in a lot more. Government proposals for appropriations in this area have been reduced by 1.3 billion. kr, or 47 pst., since 2013. In particular, regional development funds through county municipalities have been affected by the allocation of funds and are in stark contrast with the government's expressed objectives of the regional reform to strengthen the county community as a community developer. I also notice that the government and its figures here in Stortinget say that they are distorting the investment in district policy from business support through county municipalities to investment in infrastructure. It is true that within the county councils, funds are earmarked for county roads, but this is only half of the cut that comes from regional funds. Now we have a budgetary settlement that increases the regional development framework by 200 million. kr. It's good, but it's far from good that 100 of them are covered within the boundaries of the county municipalities. The Centre Party has submitted a budget for the whole of Norway. Our budget has an emphasis on creating equivalence in development opportunities and services for people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2773	The budgetary chaos of this autumn has made the lack of direction visible by the Prime Minister. Before the election we were promised that with the Right in government we would get new ideas and better solutions. In some areas there has been a new direction, not least with regard to the attitude towards unemployment. Already in the autumn of 2013, the government announced in its additional proposal estimates that the unemployment rate could rise. At the same time, the government reduced the number of action places. In the spring of 2014, I had an interpellation debate with the Prime Minister where her message was that the government should follow the situation closely. In the debate on the revised budget that same year, Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen told me that it was important not to take action against early unemployment. Since then, we have heard that there is no crisis, that only the oil price is the challenge – yes, the oil price, which nobody can do anything to reduce, has gradually become an excuse for the government's failure to take action against unemployment. During these years, the government has been pressured from opportunity to opportunity. In some areas the government has had to give up. They have had to increase the number of response sites. Finally, in accordance with the requirements of the LO and the NHO, they have had to strengthen the regulatory framework for permitting. That's why it was a surprise when we got this year's budget proposal, where the government reduces the effort against unemployment by 1 billion. kr, and they do that at the same time as they choose a very creative bookkeeping. They book that they have an extra bet on labour market measures of 750 million. kr, despite the fact that the trade proposition states that they do not increase by one place in relation to this year. Nor has it been a central issue in the negotiations from the centre parties, the support parties to the government. And when Right fiscal spokesman Svein Flötten says that "unemployment doesn't seem to increase much more", it's based on the fact that we got Nav numbers on Friday that said unemployment is increasing. Today we can read that Stavanger has the highest availability of time, and in my – and fiscal – spokesman, the home country has increased the availability by 11 pst. the last year. The results are clear: historically high unemployment, historically high youth unemployment. The employment figures have gone down, and that's perhaps the most dramatic. Long-term unemployment is increasing, and because the government has opened up temporary employment without temporary employment, the proportion of those in the labour market who have temporary jobs is also increasing, significantly, despite record tax relief, which the government says would provide employment. But it doesn't. This is the experience from the Reagan period in the United States, from the Thatcher period in England, from the Reinfeldt period in Sweden and in line with the warning received by the Ministry of Finance from its own commissioned reports from the Menon and Scheel Committee. Tax relief to the richest is not an effective way to get employment started. That's why we're in a period where very few new jobs are created, but it's effective in increasing the differences, and we're now seeing clear results of that. The statistics show that differences in earnings are increasing, and differences in wealth are increasing. Cut-offs, cut-offs and cut-offs on holiday pay for the unemployed contribute to the increase in differences. The number of beneficiaries of social assistance in Norway is increasing. It does the same with us in Westfold. But in addition, we see that there is an increased difference among those who have work, by the lack of action against social dumping leading down the lowest wages, while the highest wages are rising. The difference between those on the outside and those who don't have a job is great. Labour market disparities are also increasing, and it is because the government itself says that they do not have specific new measures to combat social dumping in the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2793	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2798	High employment and an organised working life are prerequisites for a society with small differences between people. It lays the basis for our common well-being and for my and your freedom. One of the strengths of Norwegian society is that there are relatively small differences. It ensures a stable and adaptable society. Erna Solberg chose to make Norway less oil dependent, but instead takes the money from future generations because oil money consumption has increased by nearly 100 billion. kr. It increases the differences between generations. And the differences are increasing in many areas: between those inside and those outside the labour market, between those who have whole and safe jobs, and those who don't, between the rich and the poor, between the city and the country, between women and men, and between South Norway and North Norway. It is the result of a little wise choice – it is the result of the government's desired policy. The government has systematically reduced regional development funds and is proposing new cuts in 2017. Now it's almost 400 million. kr less to the counties each year than it did in 2013. These funds were to be used to promote local social development, employment and industrial development. The government is trying to take away from the counties and municipalities the opportunities offered by the regional development funds. In the Labour Party, we have proposed 200 million. kr more to regional development for 2017 in order to reduce the differences. When combining government arrangements with a weak structure for the municipal sector, one can effectively limit the possibilities of further developing many of the beautiful communities that exist around the country. The Labour Party has proposed 376 million. kr more to the municipality sector of North Norway alone, 3 billion. kr at national level. The consequence of government policies is greater differences between the provision that municipalities can provide in different parts of the country. Now, digitization comes too full, with a lot of possibilities. Altin, located in Brønnøysund, is one of the engines for increasing efficiency gains for government and industry. But the government doesn't give priority to developing Altin. Now we risk that the service becomes irrelevant to the users of general government and business, and in the long term, security will be weakened. The consequences of government policy are more bureaucracy and greater costs to business. This year, Health Mid-Norway sent out a huge offer for a new system for a common journal for hospitals and municipalities. The offer is designed in such a way that no Norwegian operators have the opportunity to compete. Even Norway’s largest provider of such systems, located in Bodø, was not able to do so. The consequences of government policy are out-of-country jobs. The helicopter ramp offer is being built down in North Norway. The impact of government policy is a lower health supply for people in North Norway. For 16 years, the county council has taken a national responsibility to provide young people with answers on health and sexuality online, through Klara Klock. Now the government wants to put it down. They want to build up a new offer, a digital low-threshold offer, located in Oslo. Why Klara Klok must move to Oslo, no one has understood, but the consequence of government policy is the centralization of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2817	Today's debate is an interesting experience. The Labour Party asks us more priority in the budget, before they criticise the priorities we actually do, while the Labour Party itself does not give priority to anything in its budget. The Workers' Party increases taxes and therefore leaves to Norwegian families and businesses to give priority to their budgets in order to make the State budget of the Workers' Party go up. Small business owners in Rogaland therefore have to pay taxes on their hard-tested businesses to finance the priorities of the Workers' Party. I grew up myself in one of Haugesund's many family businesses and could have wanted more participants with some cream blood in the years of this debate. One actually has to earn the money before one can use it, and the wealth tax today braves businesses that are going to create new jobs. To take seriously the promises of the Workers' Party, they must be financed, something the Workers' Party has not done. Will the Workers' Party increase taxes by between 26 and 33 billion? kr, or shall they cancel any of their election vows? In their alternative budget, 790 million has been added. kr to these promises. Adds one to the Workers' Party's proposed tax increases of 10,5 billion. NOK, the tax bill may be up to SEK 33 billion. kr. That's the last Norwegian job and Norwegian company needs it. The Labour Party will win the West, it will be said. As it looks, the bigger ambitions are to tax the West in its entirety. The time for great, precious reforms is over. Growth in the economy has to rise, because it gives greater scope for economic action. There has to be more creation. The Labour Party will tax more, but it will weaken the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Furthermore, one of the Workers' Party's interests is to talk about inequality and the weakest in society. The biggest inequality we have is how people with a drug challenge are treated. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, the Workers' Party shows that it is only hollow rhetoric when they accuse the government of not giving priority to the weakest. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party shows its true face by not giving priority to addicts. The addicts are totally excluded and the word ‘rus’ is mentioned only twice. It is in stark contrast to the government's budget. From the first day in the government, we said that people with drug addiction should be given priority. We've kept that promise. Package trajectories for mental health and drug use are being integrated into the range of interventions to meet this promise. This is something the Workers' Party will liquidate. It is this government that, together with our cooperation parties, has received through a historic and binding escalation plan, the escalating plan for the drug field. So the plan is going to be 2.4 billion. Dr more for drug treatment. The most important thing is the plan’s choice of better care for drug users, where we are able to meet the major challenges in the field of drugs with renewed and reinforced efforts. In the agreement with our cooperation parties there are a number of reinforcements for the drug field. The Christian People's Party shall have the honor of this. We show together the willingness to give priority to the weakest and give more of those who need it the most, a better everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2832	From the time we stood here a year ago, we all think that at that time the government had to produce a so-called additional number with extra privileges in the field of asylum, because we had large asylum arrivals in 2015. It was a major challenge for Norwegian municipalities and for the administration to deal with that situation. In the Progress Party, we have always been in favour of a strict and fair immigration policy, and so we did not agree to send out a signal by arranging to receive 10,000 Syrian quota refugees – or 8 000, later in the Stortinget – through national meetings and other types of treatment. History afterwards we know well. The situation we had last year meant that the rest of the bulk of the population came to the Progress Party in several areas. We saw this in both the different similarities and in the treatment of the tightening package, that things like the Progress Party have stood alone before, now have been agreed. We also see that this has played a role in ensuring that the arrivals of Norway have fallen. In week 45, 48 asylum seekers arrived. In the same week last year, there were 2,452. In other words, it means what kind of signal you send out of this room and what immigration policy is. That's actually the main reason why we've opposed the problem from last year. This year, we are adjusting the estimates and can therefore use several billion extras from the budget presentation to the present, because asylum opportunities have fallen. Consequently, the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties may strengthen a number of measures in the agreement currently on the table. We also strengthen the local economy. When we hear the Worker's Party talking about a weak setup, you have to think about the value of an operation. Here we talk about growth from year to year. We have added the Labour Party's own framework to the municipalities from 2013 – every year in this four-year period, the municipalities have received more money. When you listen to the opposition, it almost sounds as if they get less money, but it's wrong to say it. In these four years, real growth has never been stronger, and he's better than one can compare to, the eight years of red-green control. The operating result for 2015 has, for example: is the best since 2006. It shows that the local economy is in no way like the Labour Party is trying to blackmail him. We're also adding extra money from this year to next year, with over $4 billion. NOK in total, where the municipalities have received SEK 3.6 billion. SEK and counties 450 million. kr. So there's absolutely no reason to say that there's a bad arrangement that local politicians are now going to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2845	I am pleased that there was finally an agreement on the budget after long and hard negotiations, and I am also pleased with much of what is in the budget agreement, not least in the field of school and education. Early school effort has been one of the most important efforts of the Christian People's Party in this growing period. We want a school where all students get a good start at school. We want a school where all students get enough time with their teacher in the years when they're going to both crack the reading code and try to get grips on plus and minus and a lot more. We want a school where the teachers have enough time to give each student the follow-up that is needed. Then it is absolutely essential that there are enough teachers in school. Not every teacher can be responsible for too many students each. When three out of four teachers say they have too little time for their students, and that's one of the main reasons why many teachers stop working, we have to take the teachers seriously. That's why more teachers are needed. It gives more flexibility in teaching, gives more time to each student, and it gives better follow-up to the individual. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has had a solid impact on this effort. With the 460 million. kr, which is now in place in the 2017 budget, we have secured the municipalities permanent earmarked funds for more than 1700 more teaching positions in the first, second, third and fourth classes. When we know that increasing teacher density is especially important for the younger students, and that it is particularly important for students who are professionally weak, who have a foreign background, and for those who may get a little less help and support from home than others, we know that this is a right and targeted action to help those who need it the most. Because these are the same students that we find again as overrepresented, both in special education and in non-response statistics. The problem has been that many people get help too late. Now we're fixing everything so that more people can get help right away. But the Christian People's Party also wants a national standard for teacher density. We want a maximum of 16 students per teacher from 1 to 4. class at all schools in Norway and a maximum of 24 pupils per teacher in 5–10. class. With the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, which we are going to vote for primarily today, we had fully financed such a standard for the entire primary school. But also with the budgetary agreement reached by the four cooperation parties, we have now fully financed a teacher standard for the first four class steps. That's where the need is greatest, and it's the right place to start. That's why this is a big step in the right direction. I hope that there will be a majority at Stortinget to establish such a norm when the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is to be dealt with over the New Year. Now most of the money is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2860	I want to grasp the touching words of Harald T. Nesvik earlier today. He had a hot embrace of the districts, where the trike does not go, as he said. There's neither a tram nor a train in Valdres, and there's hardly a plane going. A poor and uncertain communication between east and west was the reason why the red-green government thought it was important to bet on a safe road connection between east and west via the E16 Philesberg. This road is soon over the mountain, but there is a good part missing through Valdres. Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen is a builder. But what are we experiencing now? Well, we feel that the partners and the government are cutting 30 million. kr in the Filefjells project – in an area where there is neither tram nor train nor yellow stripe on the European road. In the districts one is also online – where there is coverage, well to notice. This year applications came to Nkom for 465 million. kr. The government laid down 126.5 million. kr on the table, and for next year we have to expect that there will be applications for about the same number of millions. Nevertheless, the government only suggests spending 93.7 million. kr. In the negotiations, this has been tipped off by 45 million. kr. The Minister of Transport has said in the past that it is the commercial ones who are going to fix the main part of the expansion. We who live in the piggybacks know that there will be no expansion without state contributions, so the government's ICT bet is too central, not for the districts. Thus, the care of districts by the Progress Party does not apply to roads, broadband, nor toll loads or commuter deductions. It also does not apply to the regional research funds proposed to be cut by 35 million. NOK – this despite the fact that the money from these funds has been shown to be used very accurately, and is very successful. But we record care for the districts, also that hospitals have to take even more cuts. In the Inland Hospital, 128 million are to be cut. kr next year, and at the top of this, we're going to have a cut of 20 million. kr. But we're going to be comforted by the fact that we're going to have a pre-project in an air ambulance for 10 million. And that's good, even if it's going to be a little bit less. But I'm going to praise the Left and Christian People's Party for lifting the school and education field in important areas. Nevertheless, I must say that I am disappointed that the government and the cooperation parties do not give priority to professionalism in this budget either. Although the government itself claims to pursue a professional career, a person really has to be psychic to see that there is something more than a bluff. Yes, the apprentice grant is increased, that's good, but what about the other decisions taken by the Stortinget in 2013? It is three and a half years ago, and the county councils are still not able to offer exchange models. The objective of the social contract is not met. There are more areas where learning places are missing than before. The Community is not a professional and the review of the programme area is still just a review. Neither the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, nor the Left can be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2873	We have taken on international commitments by signing the Paris Agreement. This means cutting emissions year by year, changing habits and habits year by year, replacing fossil fuels and developing new and green industries year by year. Everything suggests that we are on the right track with the fourth civil budget in a row, such as the climate budget of the time – year after year. I hear clearly – and briefly – that the debate here in the Chamber is about two sides and two things. One, on which the Left leads, to change, the other, where the Workers' Party leads, to cut. In 2015, the left created the new word “green shift” – the title of our national meeting. We want to use taxes and taxes to change behavior. Increased wreckage of vans, caravans and boats is an example of a green exchange. We want people to switch a polluting van into an emission-free one, where possible, or deliver an out-of-date trailer for recycling. For the hinterland, Oppland and Hedmark, next year's budget means a new age. It's the year when it really can and will, change. We can start building new and green industries based on wood and biomass. Instead of the landscape growing again and the tree line crawling upwards in the mountain cottage, we can harvest more. Someone says that we can put the forest on the tank. Yes, we can. A slight increase in fuel charges and increased requirements for blending biodiesel will lead to new start-ups of green and land-based biomass fuel crops instead of pumping black carbon from the seabed and creating a bathing heat on the earth. Speaking of inland: I'm glad that we've finally had the impression that even inland should have a good coverage for air ambulances like the rest of the country, especially for everyone who lives there, but also for all those who travel there. It's also being changed on the railway. New $830 million. kr for train effort is important. The intercity triangle needs these means to keep pace. The aim of the left is to build double tracks completely, for example. Little hammer, by 2030. I am also pleased that the government agreed to draw up a plan to get an hourly leave on the Gjøvik track. The Labour Party and the Socialist side talk a lot about cuts, especially tax cuts. For Uppland, where the vast majority of business is small enterprises with fewer than 10 employees, reduced taxes on wealth are by no means cut. It also leads to green and sensible investments in the company and not to increased private consumption. Now the Workers' Party is also trying to create a picture of a hospital cabin. There will be no cuts in hospitals, there will be a little less growth than the government suggested. The left proposed even slightly less growth in the budget in its alternative budget in favour of more early action, prevention and public health. In this budget, there are 900 million. kr more to just that. So we can repair a little bit less. So to the Workers' Party, which is talking about these cuts: firstly, we have a income model in the hospitals, as the representative Tingelstad Wøien spoke about. It's an income model we've inherited from the red-greens. Otherwise, the Workers' Party is talking about 400 million. kr i cut for consulting, which also goes to the hospitals, and therefore we are on the same footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2891	It is clear that it has taken time to sit and negotiate. It is clear that many parties do not get what is happening outside the negotiations, for example. in the case of climate, where there is a need for much greater real cut than the one proposed by the Left – yes, in fact probably more than the SV also suggests. It's out of reality. That's what we have to deal with, and that's where the government and the reconciliation go wrong. It's not about climate between the negotiating partners. It's about the climate with which our grandchildren and grandchildren will have to live. I'm afraid, as the Minister for Integration said, for those who come after me, because this is serious. It costs to take care of the climate, but not to do it is going to cost our grandchildren dearly. That responsibility does not take the majority or the government now. Another side of this is what I heard the representative Njåstad was up and talking about. He spoke as if the refugee disaster in the world is all over. It's not that. It's worse now than it was last year. It is worse than it was two years ago, but few come to Norway. Then the government saves a lot of money, and what do we spend it on? Do we use them to strengthen the work in the neighbourhood and help them there, including on European soils where aid organisations now report that there is a need? Children are starving. Kids meet in the winter in northern Greece, where it's as called as here, with a woolen carpet and a tent. Here we are sitting with money left over that we could have spent on it. It's not like there's fewer refugees. It is also true that they are on European soil and suffer distress. There is a need for urgent humanitarian aid both in the neighbourhoods of Syria and very many other places. The government and the partners should have taken over and solved this, because we could have done that. Climate and renewables are also cut in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. So there's no comparison either. Thinking that the refugee crisis in the world is over because there are no refugees coming to Norway is wrong. It's bigger. The stake should be greater. It should have been inserted where it is, and one should review one's own refugee policy, so that one does not break Norway's obligations and does not ensure that those in need of protection get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2902	A year ago, quite exactly, the world finally got a global and legally binding climate agreement — a framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We have taken on comprehensive commitments. Our emissions are to be cut by 40 pst. by 2030. If we are to fulfil our own obligations under the Paris Agreement, it is urgent. The continuation of today’s climate policy will scarcely provide for emission reductions in the non-quota sector. We need to start now, and in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we are presenting a plan for taking the emission cuts, and what priority must be given to doing so. We believe that there are four areas where the potential for emissions reduction is high: zero-emission technologies in road transport, biofuels, green shipping and carbon capture and storage. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, bioenergy and biofuels are an important part of the solution if we are to achieve the maximum 2 degree temperature increase compared to pre-industrial time. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose to increase the turnover requirement to 10 pst. by 2020, before double counting. The background for a relatively conservative escalation is that we want to be sure that we have access to sustainable biofuels. The industry itself has asked for long-termity and predictability. Therefore, we hope that Stortinget can agree on a stepping-up plan that goes not only to 2020 but to 2030. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we are absolutely sure that biofuels are sustainable. In addition, we want investments here in Norway. It will provide new jobs, but it will not least contribute to secure access to sustainable biofuels. Today, our neighbouring countries Finland and Sweden are producing increasingly sustainable biofuels, and we want to put sustainable biofuel production in place here, too, in Norway. We will stimulate a sustainable industrial value chain for Norwegian forest-based biofuels, but also algae-based biofuels can have a great future in Norway. In North Norway, there are industrial companies that want, and that need, to bring down their CO 2 emissions, and algae need a lot of CO 2 to grow. Therefore, it would be a win-win situation if it were to facilitate the production of biofuels based on algae. This is how we can create new jobs, while at the same time helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This fall we have seen how difficult it has been for the Left and Christian People's Party to reach agreement with the Right and Advance Party in climate policy. After long and difficult budgetary negotiations, the Left and Christian People's Party has finally been able to negotiate to a climate budget that is almost as good as the Workers' Party's alternative budget. So it's despite the fact that the government once again draws the card and spends more money than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2929	I must express my great pleasure at the fact that the budget negotiations ended as well as they did a late Saturday night. This was important for Norway, and it was important for North Norway. Business in the north is going down, and then business doesn't need a tax bill of at least 10 billion. kr, which they would have obtained with the Workers' Party's draft budget. I don't want to call that an active business policy. For me, it is also clear that we need a strong Right that can speak the whole case of Norway. The Prime Minister has been clear that we must have a budget and a climate budget that takes care of the whole country, and she sees that the challenges we have in the country are different, whether one comes from the Central East or from District Norway. I record that Labour Party politicians are trying to create a picture of budgetary chaos. No, I think that anyone who is concerned about the legitimacy of this house should be happy that we have such open political processes in Norway – rather than that it is in closed rooms, and that the voters do not see where the lines of politics go. With that in the draft budget from what is today the opposition to the Stortinget, I also think that the negotiations would have been demanding. Now we get a government budget that can contribute to more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life, and not least a budget that contributes to an important green shift, which facilitates the development of new low-carbon technologies and more green jobs. What Norway needs in the future is a policy that facilitates more private jobs that contribute to the state budget and no more that survives from the state budget. As a district policy, I am pleased that we have a government that leads a district policy that helps to create safe jobs across the country through growth-enhancing tax reliefs, through strengthening research and innovation measures, and which have not least a significant investment in infrastructure. The answer to the question is, what do you think is most important to the business community in District Norway? Next year's budget continues the government's historic commitment to trade. Furthermore, more than 3 billion have been allocated to police and prosecution authorities. This increase is also continued in next year's government budget, with 300 additional million. to the police districts. The final negotiations also provided the necessary increases to FIRST Scandinavia in Bodø. Of course, I am very pleased with that. I am still amazed at the dishonesty of the Workers' Party. Last year they called out how terrible the air passenger charge was – now they're introducing it themselves. They ran for a cut in holiday money for those who receive a daily allowance – now they accept the cut. They called out to cut for three years' work in Klara Klock in Bodø, but voted no themselves now last Friday to ten new posts for the police in the north. No, the Workers' Party continues its wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2946	Unemployment has fallen sharply in parts of the country, especially in the north and inland. But in my part of Norway, South Africa, there are still many, many more than normal, who are out of work. Therefore, the government has delivered several good and necessary package of measures. These packages are specifically targeted at the sectors and regions most affected. Also in this year's budget, we are strengthening our efforts to prevent people from falling out of work, and to ensure that those who are already on the outside come back in. We grant e.g. Thirty million. kr for a new and strengthened youth initiative. It is particularly important to ensure that young people are not hit by bad times, as it can produce long-term effects. We also continue a much higher number of action sites. The 1 000 posts that we temporarily entered in the 2016 balance are continued in 2017. Earlier this fall, I took several of my colleagues here at Stortinget to look at the things I was burning for in my county, things I wanted to get into the budget negotiations, and I felt that they had to look into. I'd like to draw out two of them. We were in Grimstad and looked at the Southland lab, or MIL, as it is called, which is under entry. The importance of getting the equipment needed in good time for the start of the study was made clear. Furthermore, we were at the ski centre in Veganshei. They work hard to expand the centre and are already an important center for the whole of South Africa. Here you can and should do winter sports both summer and winter. I also commend the residents of Vegangshei for being so good at driving hard work as well as the means they get to the centre, and that makes them get a lot more out of the money. There will now be money in the budget for both MIL in Grimstad and the ski centre in Veganshei, so it's useful to record good things. Other things that have also been my priority are Together on the Need and Stine Sofies Foundation. They came too. And then I'd rather stand that the bike path in Birkenes didn't reach this time, but I hope it comes in at the next crossroads. There has been a lot of talk about ultimatum today, and how reprehensible it is. The word 'ultimatum' and the words 'inevitable demands' seem to me to mean the same thing, and I seem to remember that the Christian People's Party would use its power as a support party to have an inevitable claim of 1 pst. assistance. So – to the representative Hareide – we are not exactly familiar with the concept of ultimatum in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2959	The 2017 government budget is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. It is a budget that contributes to a forward-looking policy of safe governance of the country, and it is a budget that helps to close the gaps in the security network for groups that are currently falling through. The government platform states that the government will strengthen the situation of the relatives by, among other things. reforming the care allowance system for parents with sick and disabled children. This is followed up in the 2017 budget. The budget has a device that will make everyday life easier for parents of seriously ill children. Under the red-green regime, the care allowance scheme was tightened. Among other things, changes to the legislation which resulted in the loss of the entitlement to care allowance by parents of children with a permanent illness. It created uncertainty and an unpredictable and difficult everyday life for families with seriously ill children. It is demanding to be parents of seriously ill children. Many of these families live lives that they almost don't get up, and a new and improved care scheme will give them a better everyday life. An increase in the budget of the care allowance scheme, combined with a flexible withdrawal, allows parents with large care tasks to combine part-time care with part-time work. I am pleased that the government with this budget facilitates more mother and father care, that several seriously ill children can live at home and be followed up by their neighbors. Unfortunately, many seriously ill children are not included in today's care scheme. Among other things, MS-sick children are a disease that requires close follow-up. They can stay isolated in the dark at home for longer periods, they can't do stimuli, they can't stand up, they can't eat themselves, and they're home from school, of course. The children are dependent on continuous care and supervision for long periods of time. As the legislation is today, often one of the parents gets sick, and some have to go from 100 pst. position at a lower job rate, with a more difficult economy. By extending the scheme, these parents will have a better daily life because the care scheme will also include them. The 2017 budget proposes an increase of EUR 140 million in the care allowance scheme. SEK, with an annual effect of 560 million. kr from 2018. That's a big increase. The extension of the target population involves almost doubling the number of parents who will be compensated for temporary retirement of labour income in order to care for their ill child. The government delivers and keeps it promised. With this budget, life will become a little easier and more predictable for families in a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2972	The budget negotiations have largely been about a famous car package, too many, both in this house and outside. For the Christian People's Party, it has been about something more. It's been about our kids. The budget agreement shows that we have been busy putting in place measures to help what is the most precious thing we have, namely our kids. Psychiatric health for children and young people must become more than a theoretical strategy. It will form part of an obligatory action plan, and money has been put into it to get it on the table. Psychiatric health as a matter of its own in school: In order to prevent early onset, 20 million have arrived. kr in place again. Violence against children: The young people who are subjected to abuse and violence are to be seen and met with good competence and medical examinations, and not least they must experience that they are being taken seriously. 1st to 4th. class needs more teachers than you might otherwise need at school. Bullying agents: bullying can ruin a whole life. Money is put into the children's transport plan, where we see that the kids have a meaning for how we think about traffic. In this work there are central positions in the municipalities. To label 250 million. kr for health station work and school health service we do not do for fun. We do it because we actually think it's the big contact area that meets a lot of kids who are subjected to assault, violence, or who are mentally or physically struggling. Therefore, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to be sure that these positions come into place – not for the earring, but for the young. Young people who are subjected to violence need an open door. Kids who struggle mentally need an open door for some adults. Then we have to take inwards that if we are to achieve that goal, we have to make sure that the money comes and is used for what it is going to do. That is why the Christian People's Party is very proud that we have negotiated that we will bet on this, because it can prevent violence against children, it can prevent mental problems in children and young people, and it provides good, preventive public health for children and young people, from health centre to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e2991	Then the country finally got a budget, after weeks of chaos. But still there is a budget that gives huge tax cuts to those who have the most of them. While most in Norway have received around one fifth in tax cuts per day, the wealthiest saves hundreds of thousands of years on government policy. The Christian People's Party and the Left have improved the budget in some areas, and one might say that it has become a little less bad. There is still too little room for action to meet the increasing unemployment, and there is still a tight budget for the local government sector. Several of the containment proposals fail. One of them we have heard a lot about today: cut in hospitals. Almost 500 million. kr – it is at least far away from what someone went to elections on, not least what the Right said in the election campaign. This will obviously affect those who work there, and of course it will also go beyond the offer to us residents. Every year since the blue-blue government joined, the Labour Party has given more money to the municipalities. Yes, in the 2017 budget, we actually have a total of three billion. kr. more. This would enable municipalities to offer more childcare facilities, to invest more in early school interventions and to improve the quality of care for the elderly. Our budget would have given the municipalities in Northern Ireland approx. One hundred million. kr more for these offers, and it would also give the county municipality approx. One hundred million. kr. In addition, the county municipality would receive approx. Eighty million. kr more in DA funds and regional development funds. Subsidies are also cut for resource-intensive users in the municipality and all those who have been involved in municipal policy know how important that pot is. This will hit many municipalities hard. Nor can funds be found to reverse the cuts for high school teachers. Employment growth in municipalities is now record low. Over the period 2006–2013, employment in the local government sector increased by an average of 8 500 annually. After the takeover of the Right-Fremskrit party government, this has fallen to 3000 per year. With this government, fewer teachers, nurses and kindergarten teachers have been employed. Had it been just that we saw growth in the private sector – but we don't see it. I also remember that the new cost keys are still such that the municipality of Nordland will lose 285 million. in 2020 if nothing is done. Next year, the sum is 100 million. kr. I also remember that the property tax in the power stations will hit with 400 million. kr in cut next year if you don't go in and change the calculation there. There's a verbal proposal inside, but I'm very excited about how it turns out. Finally, it is good to focus on climate, but the district profile is not good. You weaken the commuter deduction, you weaken the kilometer allowance, and you weaken the advantage of the hybrid cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3012	I would like to associate some comments with some items in the field. To start with agriculture: There is every reason to be happy that the plan from the government to open up several limited liability companies has been stopped. It is also good to record that the Minister of Finance's plan to tax young farmers in the districts who invest, harder, had been stopped. That's good. Then there are in the agreements some suggestions that, in my view, it is difficult to see the whole idea. The first is the ban on the breeding of ants. It's a rather dramatic proposal that only comes on the table without any explanation. On the other hand, what needs to be done, and I see reason to warn against, is the proposal for a CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector. For agriculture, it is really going to be the start of a process of levying a steak. I think it will have great consequences for agriculture, and it will make it easier for us to import food into Norway more favourable than to grow it ourselves. The starting point must be that increasing Norwegian food production is good for the environment. In the fisheries field, I record that there is a plan from the Minister for Fisheries to introduce a very strong bureaucracy for seafood farms. This is a task that the Directorate of Fisheries is following up, which means that you have to have a lot of journal entries to help you run a seafood business in Norway, and increase red tape – unnecessary red tape. There are also some positive things in the forest field, including: in the case of biofuel requirements. That's good. But what's missing in this budget is what's needed to create a holistic supply chain for forest, easy access to capital. One thing is that we're going to have more biofuels on the tank. The centre party wants us to have Norwegian biofuels, from the Norwegian forest, on the tank – not imported biofuels. Then you'll need a tighter tilt than what's in the deal. Finally, there is an unresolved point in the budget agreements when it relates to Investinor. Is there a theme still open, or is it closed in the budget negotiations? I think it's important that one doesn't withdraw the 1.25 billion. the government has proposed and hopes that a solution can be found in the further budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3030	While the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are some about a good government budget for 2017, the Labour Party continues with its criticism of both the budget and the budgetary process. Regardless of criticism: the budget that the government and the cooperation party are now some about, will secure more jobs, better well-being and ensure significant cut in greenhouse gas emissions. It will make us much better able to meet the 2030 climate change targets and strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. The working party also criticises the use of oil money, but the difference is actually minimal – approx. 2 pst. And if I'm not completely wrong, it's 1.77 pst. lower use of oil money in the budget of the Workers' Party versus the government's budget. But the Labour Party's budget is very important. Here's a long way between what they promised at the national meeting, in the election campaign and in different media games, and what they actually deliver in their alternative budget. Here the Labour Party demonstrates that there is no connection between rhetoric and politics. They're criticizing us for 20 billion. kr in tax bills, but keep ten billion in the own budget. They rush over the air passenger charges, but introduce the air passenger charges themselves. They criticised the cuts in holiday money for those who received the daily allowance, but still budget with the money itself. While the government has always invested in conversion through investments in transport and infrastructure, the Workers' Party in New Vegar and Bane NOR SF cut. The state's interest compensation scheme also reduces them. The Labour Party, with its alternative budget, has shown that they have more rhetoric than actual policies when, in total, they have a lack of coverage of between 25 billion. kr and 33 br. to pay for their raising. The last Norwegian business life now needs to be slowed down by the Labour Party’s tax cuts, which do not contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions or to strengthening Norwegian competitiveness, but rather increase costs at a time when many still have to cut costs. In the Western world, the Labour Party’s policy will extend a difficult transition rather than start new growth and value creation that can secure and create new profitable and good jobs. On the right, Norway's conversion started when they came into government. The big money has gone to investment in knowledge, transport, innovation and growth-promoting tax havens. The unemployment rate is on the way down in many countries, while productivity is on the way up. A record number of entrepreneurs are created, and competitiveness is strengthened. However, it is still worn out many due to lay-offs and lay-offs. Then it's important that we keep a rough course to ensure the necessary conversion, growth and value creation. That is why this year's budget is very important and a good budget for the future. It's about work, activity and change. We need a whole new deal, not a prolonged transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3052	It is on the drudgery that today we have a budget to debate. It came to the extreme overtime. The most obvious thing about this budget is that it does not take into account that we still have high unemployment rates in many parts of the country – which leads to even more uncertainty for very many people. Health and infirmity are inextricably linked to social and economic conditions. Working for everyone is actually the most basic element of good public health. Unfortunately, this budget has very few measures aimed at unemployment. Although the two cooperation parties have managed to move the budget in the right direction in some important areas, there is little to be found here. My home country, Troms, is not one of the most affected states, but we are also struggling with youth unemployment. Therefore, the Workers’ Party’s proposal to increase the use of wage subsidies and to establish several action places will constitute an important contribution for those young people outside the Troms labour market. One of the first things we saw when the health budget was presented was that the government really gave up its promises to the hospital sector. I understand that the Health Policy spokesman for the Right, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, has an urgent need to tell adventures about the government's hospitalization. There are large, unresolved tasks for hospitals throughout the country, and the government’s original budget for 2017 would have led to the hospital’s arrival almost 3 billion. In comparison with the government parties promised before the elections, this increase is more severe. In fact, the government has further weakened the hospital budgets by almost 0.5 billion. through uncompensated efficiency requirements. The working party has turned down 12 billion. extra for the strengthening of hospitals during this landfill period. We promised that before the elections, and we have. For my region, Health Nord, our budget would be around 185 million. kr more than the budget agreement provides. It would provide hospitals in the north with additional resources to invest in ICT, better equipment and faster treatment, for example. through evening-open outpatient clinics. Now it's likely to be cut, even in patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3062	It is in the municipalities the most important welfare created for the population. I'm sure the Labour Party will grant 3 billion. kr more to the local government sector than the government does for 2017. That means that the municipalities of Troms will be strengthened by almost 70 million. kr more than with the arrangement of the government. The municipality of Trom wanted to have approx. 48 million. kr more to create growth and well-being for than it has given to people in my home country. These figures clearly show that the country needs a new course and that next year's elections will be crucial for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3065	The Christian People's Party, as a centre party, is content to have contributed to the budget for next year. Our contribution has been to draw the budget for districts, for centralisation, for agriculture and primary industries, for children and families and for a better climate. District policies are more than single items in the budget. The Christian People's Party wants to contribute to a greater allocation of space, economic environment and economics and to the regional priority of those who are close, or who have their shoes on. We are therefore expecting to meet the regional reform. New and high-impact regions can provide exciting societal development based on regional advantage. Regional reform can be the most important regional policy action taken over many decades. A number of regional policy instruments need to be introduced under regional public policy governance for the future. Today's Christian People's Party is happy that 200 million. return to regional development funds. Municipalities provide welfare services in people's everyday lives. A predictable and good municipal economy is one of the most important activities of the Grand Duchy for individuals, families and businesses. The transfers to the municipalities in this budget are quite positive. The Christian People's Party believes that the municipal economy for 2017 is quite optimistic, but we cannot say from this room that it is liberal. Then we'll let the local politicians down. The truth is, the budget is sober. The Christian People's Party will be involved in creating a responsible budget, we can do this in today's situation. For the Christian People's Party, one of the main priorities of the harvest's budgetary work is districts and primary industries — in rural and urban areas, coastal and inland. There is great value creation and innovation. There is now an impact on important issues such as agriculture, forest roads and timber markets, loss compensation, regional development funds, broadband and scaffolding. The Christian People's Party has also been active in reversing the proposals to tax rural development funds and to allow agricultural deductions for limited liability companies. In addition, we have had an impact on our own bioeconomy system in conjunction with the other parties. Two items have been particularly enjoyable for themselves, and I allow myself to mention it. We've got 20 million in place. to strengthen the child-care professional competence in relation to residence in the asylum chain. The focus on children and children's best must never let go of the roof among us. There's a scale on our human vision. The second thing I'm very happy about is the allocation to the Royal Court Project at Rogaland's Millennial Place at the King's Session Avaldsnes in Karmøy. It is now possible to discover and document spectacular historical findings, with significance for research, history and travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3081	The unemployment rate in Hordaland is increasing most throughout the country. Recent Nav figures show us that in November, Hordaland was out of work at 3.4 pst. That means that the increase in the last 12 months is at 13.4 p.m., or 1 111 people. The number of young unemployed is the highest in ten years, but what is perhaps most alarming for the employment situation in my home country is that the increase in unemployment is now growing to more and more industries, and not least the fact that the number of long-term unemployed has increased by a total of 34 pst. These last 12 months. In November 2016, 4,328 long-term job seekers were registered in Hordaland. Under this government, new jobs are scarcely created in the private sector, and only in my small home region, Sunnhordland, Nav reports that the oil-right businesses now have about half the population. 400 settings. We have a Prime Minister who comes from Hordaland, and we have a Minister of Industry who comes from Hordaland. It should be good to have government members who come from home, but for those who are out of work, and for those who are at risk of unemployment, there is little evidence that this government is good for Hordaland. The Labour Party has in its alternative budget taken seriously the situation that the South and Western countries are now experiencing, by seeing in billions. extra to targeted measures for more people to work. With our plan, the municipalities of Hordaland will get 195 million. kr more than with the arrangement of the government, and Hordaland County gets 91 million. kr more. In addition, we propose an extra 240 million. NOK 150 million for rural roads in the South and West. extra kr for carbon capture and storage, 100 mill. SEK for a ferry exchange programme that will provide Norwegian suppliers with activity and by covering additional costs of phasing out fossil ferries for the benefit of new battery journeys, this will also be an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our proposal for 150 additional places to study in the new high school in the west and 100 places to study in the University of Bergen will also help when it comes to giving young people an active everyday life. Our proposal will give 271 million. kr more to Health West than the budget agreement provides. And with our budget plan, the City Railway in Bergen will get the $50 million needed. kr extra, which means that one does not need to burden the caristics unnecessarily in order to realise this important collective service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3098	The Christian People's Party is betting on the innovative, creative farmers who want to bet. This does not mean removing the tax deduction from rural development funds because it will lead to fewer investments and fewer newbuildings, especially among younger farmers. In that case, the prescription is not to open up the possibility for ASs to receive agricultural deductions — in a financial position without any principle approach. The OECD assesses the value creation potential of the bioeconomy as high. Norway has enormous opportunities here. We have the resources. We have the knowledge. We have the ability to develop knowledge, so that we can use the resources we have, even better. The Christian People's Party has put in place a bioeconomy strategy. We have also put in place a bioeconomy effort in this budget, which also includes three-based forest innovation programmes. Our black carbons, which Norwegian economy and Norwegian welfare have been built over the last 50 years, will be phased out in the next few years. Farmers around our long-distance country are ready to take part in climate change. Therefore, climate advice on the farms under the direction of the Landerlag is important. Research and development on the feeding of our ruminants is also important, so that they can also participate in the great climate dew. There is agreement between the four batches that a flat CO 2 tax should be introduced from 2018, with a provisional derogation for the fisheries sector and the agricultural sector. A flat CO 2 tax shall not affect fisheries, sustainable farming, agriculture or forestry in an inappropriate manner. For this reason, a party-wide sample should be set down, which should look at the possibility of gradually introducing a CO 2 tax, but where the overall objectives are set, that we should be a world-leading seamat, that we should increase Norwegian food production, and that our forest should be both a CO 2 friend and important for value creation. Knowing what values we have in our country is important, but also who we have under the sea surface. Therefore, the increase in the budget framework for stock research is important, as is the increase in the control of salmonnus. I am very pleased that today we are going to adopt the idea of establishing a CO 2 fund with environmental agreements with industry – an important measure, a targeted measure, a measure with deadlines for both government and business. Norway's signature in Paris obliges us all. It commits this hall, it commits business, it commits us as individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3132	Work, knowledge, health and a climate policy that actually reduces greenhouse gas emissions – even after the agreement that has been agreed here today, climate change cut would have been bigger with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. We know that work is the most important thing for living independent lives, the most important thing for reducing differences and the most important thing for good integration. Therefore, we need to invest in several workspaces. During our government period, 360 000 new jobs were created, with two out of three coming in the private sector. Under this government, 32 000 jobs have been created so far, and two out of three are in the public sector. The unemployment rate is record high, and I actually expect that there would be more measures for new jobs in the budget. In the Labour Party's alternative, we see work and climate at the same time. We will facilitate the creation of new jobs in enterprises that both provide climate-friendly solutions and create competitive businesses and jobs. I'm just going to list 100 million. kr more for elfrey, 1 billion. kr more for environmental technology schemes over four years and carbon capture and storage. Three projects prioritize us, Norcem, Yara and Klemetsrud. In order to achieve the climate objectives, we also need to find solutions to the CO 2 problem when it is still around, including: in China, new coal-fired power plants are being set in motion almost every week. We must therefore invest in research, development and new technologies. We want to add funds to these projects in the future. Then we can solve the climate challenges, then we create new jobs. Then we have to have a green ship. We aim that all major port calls should have shore-side electricity by 2030. Here's the technology in place, it's just to put it into practice. We also need to establish a CO 2 fund for business transport, so that it also has the potential to become more environmentally friendly. There are some, but we want to start it already from 2017 and get started with more. We want more goods on trains and ships. Then we have to build trains. We must continue with the intercity development, and we must also ensure cross-border railway projects. In one area, we have some – and I am also very pleased – that we are spending enough money to continue the work at Follobana. Then it will take 11 minutes from Ski to Oslo. Then the train becomes the best option – both for people and for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3151	The challenge in the country now is primarily to create new jobs and growth. The oil price drop has created major challenges in the South and West. This budget facilitates the growth capacity, migration and security of well-being. Safe and rapid hospital treatment is an important part of our well-being. The 2017 budget provides for further growth in patient treatment, and the hospital economy is strengthened by nearly 1.5 billion. kr. Even after deducting the new efficiency requirement, the government has financed a higher growth than the demographic development in 2017 suggests – i.e. a growth. The light first went up for the Workers' Party when it came to financing the hospitals, after they left the government offices. I remember that it was on their guard that private insurance shot in the weather, it was on their guard that the hospitals received a grant that this government had to increase year after year to get the hospital cows down. This government has in all its four proposals for government budgets facilitated a higher rate of growth in patient treatment than the red-green government adopted after its eight. Then it is that efficiency and better logistics in hospitals are not the opposite of a better patient offer. No, it's a prerequisite for that – not least in the future. This is not about employees running faster, or organising work worse. On the contrary, smart and new solutions need to be found, and there are many examples of, at both department and enterprise level. A brilliant example is that the government has put in place a package for cancer patients. It reduces waiting time and creates more predictability, with a smarter way of working. It shows some of the potentials of organizing differently. With the right in government, hospital cows have been reduced by 80,000 people, waiting time has been reduced by 12 days, and a total of 34 000 patients are now in a cancer treatment package. This government has also found room for modernising construction and not least for setting aside funds for new hospitals. It's about Stavanger, it's about Health Lead, it's about Southland, and it's about Bergen. A new site has been selected for a new hospital in Drammen. There you have to plan at the same rate as you have said. It is also set out in an action package of 100 million. towards the South and the West, for the rehabilitation of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3168	While the rest of the rest of Europe experience political upheavals that we have not seen in modern times, we are sitting here in the Chamber debating a budget that gives more to everyone. Cut and irresponsible, claims the opposition. Accurately adapted to the situation we're facing, claims the position. Three years ago, exactly the same arguments were put forward, with the opposite sign. I think I should remind the Stortinget that Norway is also affected, and will be affected to an even greater extent by developments in Europe. National states face existing issues, but our focus is on how to save the world from climate change – in 2100. Then we're all dead, and our tippole children will be in their youth. To save the Earth, we do what we can to reduce future revenues and increase future expenses. I find it hard to believe that those who use the strongest words against their political competitors in climate issues can at the same time be the most merciful to the earth's climate. I find such a schizophrenic attitude a little credible. But today's debate started well. The first interventions were characterised by the policy to be pursued, namely how we can facilitate jobs, infrastructure and safe welfare. Today's Business today uses three pages, including the first page, to let the Left criticize itself. The representatives Rotevatn and Breivik believe that they themselves spend too much money. They think it's unsustainable, and Rotevatn's worried about his own pension. Now it's not the pensions of the big business representatives that worry my voters the most, but I'll leave it. The representatives Rotevatn and Breivik say that the use of money is too high and not particularly wise. The left has had the opportunity for two to three weeks to require large responsible cuts in budgetary negotiations, but it has given priority to everything else. Then it's strange to use several pages in the DN to go in the throat of itself. The leader of the Labour Party gave a good description of the challenges in Europe earlier today, but he has no answers, except to blame everyone else. And for the sake of safety, the party of progress is not on the right of the Right. The Progress Party is a popular party that addresses challenges that affect people the most. We are willing to find new policy solutions if necessary — what the elite defines as populism. However, the location of the Workers' Party is very unclear. Gahr Støre criticises his social-democratic colleagues in Europe who do not deliver what they promise. That's why the dissatisfaction is increasing. Gahr Støre is right in this. However, the challenge is that Gahr Støre wants to use exactly the same recipe that has led to the challenges in Europe. Larger people want more transnational cooperation in Europe. He welcomed 10,000 additional Syrian refugees to Norway, and he is fully convinced that man-made climate change is our greatest challenge. With this as a hindrance, there is no reason to believe that the social democrats in Norway will deliver something better than their colleagues in Europe. Your time is up, also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3185	Now we have just sat here and heard that several of the Workers' Party's representatives have kept their posts, and, in a row, greeted their municipalities about what they would now have with the Labour Party's budget. But one thing they seem to have forgotten, and that's that the Workers' Party's alternative budget would give companies in the same municipalities a good tax increase. I think it was funny that they forgot. But the national budget is also the means that the nation will use outside its borders. This government has granted 1 pst. of GNI, or more, for assistance throughout the government period. The right still wants a high level of assistance. In particular, we focus on five areas: education, health, humanitarian aid, business development and job creation – and climate, environment and clean energy. After the conciliation on Saturday, a good aid budget has improved. Norway’s assistance is at the top of the world, both as a percentage of GNI and per capita. We have now fulfilled the ambitions of Sundvolden for a doubling of aid for education. Norway takes a global lead in promoting education for development. 263 million children and young people do not go to school, and over 25 pst. by young people in the world are unemployed. Education is the key to growth and well-being. We put particular emphasis on girls and children in crisis and conflict. It is a paradox that global contributions to education have sunk. Under the previous government, the bet was almost halved, from 13.3 p.m. of the 2005 aid budget to 7.2 pst. in 2013. Our government is doubling education aid in this ageing period, and at the same time we are increasing global health spending. The regional allocation to, for example: Africa is increasing by 225 million. kr, to Nepal and Haiti with a total of 40 million. kr, and civil society assistance increased by 120 million. kr – this appropriation goes to several hundred organisations in developing countries and these organisations work with human rights, equality, food security, education and climate adaptation. They are involved in building up democratic structures and fighting poverty. Marianne Marthinsen gave in the beginning of today's meeting honor to the Christian People's Party for having had an impact on matters that are also important to the Workers' Party. Yes, possibly so, but the Workers' Party has cut the cash support by 735 million. kr, and the Workers' Party has cut aid to Africa by 150 million. kr. Both of these positions have been significantly strengthened by the Christian People's Party in its negotiations with the government. A good budget became better, also for the Christian People's Party and the Left, but most important: for the poor of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3208	The size shall adopt this evening a budget reinforcing the climate agreement, implementing a green tax shift, facilitating the development of new low-carbon technologies and more green jobs. The budget takes the green shift with the highest seriousness – it facilitates significant emission reductions while creating more secure jobs that pay taxes to ensure the well-being of the future. When you have listened to the debate here in the Chamber and to the political change of words, a few impressions may be that reduced greenhouse gas emissions are proportional to how much money is spent and how bad it must do for the individual. On the other hand, the draft budget that the government is now behind, together with the cooperation parties, shows that the best solutions are to help people and businesses find it both better and more profitable to choose environmentally friendly. Studies show that enterprises that are most concerned with the environment are also the most profitable. Even though we politicians like to believe that all power is in this room, we have to admit that consumer power must not be underestimated. If we are to succeed in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we must work in the long term. Development of new technologies forms the core wall, and Norway, with its knowledge environments at NTNU and SINTEF, is one of the leading climate technologies. This government has invested heavily in research and development, and it is continuing in the budget for 2017. I particularly mention the commitment to CO 2 capture and storage, which will be one of the most important keys to achieving commitments in the Paris Agreement. In the budget agreement, Enova and the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway have been significantly strengthened. These instruments are very important to help businesses put new technologies into practice and make them competitive. That's the way we take Norway further in a greener direction. The budget agreement also continues the civil contribution to transport: better and safer roads and railways, large-scale public transport investment, greener shipping and a switchover to a zero- and low-emission vehicle fleet. These measures not only reduce emissions but also increase the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Strengthening the urban environment agreement by 41 million. kr will give a big boost to getting more people from car to collective in the Trondheims region, among others. The budget that the Stortinget, by a majority from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, will adopt this evening, is a budget for more jobs across the country, better well-being and significant emissions cuts – which will lead Norway a step further in a greener and more sustainable direction, headed by carrots for people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3224	In such debates, there is often a red thread through the inserts, whether it is tax havens for the richest, that we do more to combat unemployment, or that we cut more into greenhouse gas emissions. One thread goes through many of the contributions of the Christian People's Party: better measures to combat violence and abuse against children. I'm proud of that. Safe growth has been a core slogan for the Christian People's Party for many years. However, to secure safe growth is one of the most important things one can do, to prevent and combat violence and abuse against children. We know that the numbers of darkness are large. Extent studies show that approximately 6 pst. have been subjected to gross physical violence by their parents. In a single classroom, it means on average one to two students. Children living in terror experience that the place that should be safest has become the most dangerous. Their only hope is that the teacher or someone around them will be able to see and discover it and say so. Strengthening the legal certainty of the most vulnerable kids has been a review melody for the Christian People's Party this great period, and we've tried to use the tilt position we have, to get greater impact. We have had an important impact in the budgets. We have also received a unanimous increase in the need for an obliging escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children. I think we were disappointed when it came from the government. But we were also disappointed with the budget, where the government boasted of a investment of 176 million. kr. Money is far from everything, but more hands are of great help – more hands to prevent, more hands to investigate, and more hands to follow up the children who are subjected to violence or abuse. That is why we are very pleased that the budgetary agreement to be adopted today amounts to 50 million. kr extra for investigation, to prosecutors, to officers in the police, 35 million. kr extra to the children's houses, which are to conduct interrogations and hopefully ensure proof that you can get the convictions of the perpetrators, 30 million. kr extra to Kripos, a strong reinforcement of Internet-related abuse, and in particular, in the prevention field, 150 million. kr extra in earmarked funds for health sisters, which we know can get in early and hopefully understand if something seems to be wrong. There are also additional funds for family protection, for Alternatives to Violence, for the protection of children, and not least for the Stine Sofie Centre, for the follow-up of children who are victims of violence and abuse. This is our first fight, with which we are well pleased. The next fight now is to ensure a stepping-up plan, so that commitment is given in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3237	With this budget, the four cooperating parties contribute to accelerating the green shift in the transport sector in several ways. One continues the strong commitment to rail and other public transport. One helps eco-friendly cars and more environmentally friendly fuels gain a competitive advantage over conventional cars and fossil fuels. I think everyone understands that achieving the climate targets by 2030 is and will be demanding, also for the transport sector. However, I do not share the pessimism that some people show. If we play along with technological development and it with us, we'll be able to achieve the goals. Norway is well advanced in the use of electric cars. The advantages we gave the electric cars in the start-up phase, such as access to collective fields, free parking and tolling, have contributed to this. 3 pst. by the car park is today electric cars. However, the main challenge has been that electric cars have been too short to reach. The exception for this has been Tesla, who in return has had a price that does not fit everyone. This has meant that electric cars have to a large extent been a car no. 2 and intended for daily commuting in and out of cities. Now this is about to change. Many car brands now come with electric cars with a long range and at a reasonable price. This has caught the market up, and the flare of sales of electric cars we have experienced in 2016, I think is an expression of a waiting-and-see attitude. What we're waiting for is the electric car that's going to replace no. 1-car in the household. Hydrogen will be an important fuel in the green shift, not least for the food transport, it will be to land or to water – and in the air, with which it is called in the adventure. How can we contribute to the green shift in the transport sector? I think there are several factors, one of which is the charging policy. In this context, I would argue that increased charges do not contribute to the green shift if there are no realistic alternatives to switch to. Then there is only an increased charge that affects business and others who do not have an attractive collective offer or a freight train they can send the goods with. However, there are important steps to be taken in this budget on the charging side, which will contribute both by introducing low-emission cars and by the wreckage scheme, which will help to phase out the storks. We are facing an acceleration of transition to climate-neutral means of transport. Here it's not about a linear projection, it's about a strong exponential growth. We will be able to achieve our objectives through technological development, public purchasing power and an adapted and fair charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3252	Despite changing times and some uncertainty about important tasks in our society, Norway is still the good country with opportunities for all. Economic policy is crucial in order to succeed in creating new jobs and secure welfare in the future. A government budget that balances with a reasonable use of oil will stimulate the economy, a weak Norwegian krone will help export businesses, a low interest rate will make it cheaper to raise capital for new businesses and projects, and not least a tax policy that makes working, investing and saving profitable, which understands the needs of industry, and that takes care of the wide range of small and medium-sized private-sized enterprises in our country. The government of Solberg promised when it joined, to take some political action. A comprehensive reform of health, police, transport, municipalities and taxes was launched to mention some areas. However, during the second half of 2014, the oil price was more than halved — the most severe oil price drop in 30 years. This led to a significant decrease in employment in the most active countries related to the oil sector. The oil price is determined as not known by politicians, but when it does, political decisions have to be made. The 2017 State budget contains a number of targeted actions to create activity and jobs in these countries, including: a package of measures of 4 billion. kr. This will have a positive impact in the short term, but more important are actions and policies that will deliver results in the long term, consciously focussing on research, education and, not least, infrastructure. Budget negotiations have taken some time this year. The consensus only came after what we can call a little dramatic days. We may not be used to this, but I don't know if this is so very dramatic. In my childhood, Einar Gerhardsen crashed, and all the big shots were re-elections. Whether or not this was so good for diversity, question marks can be put on. Today, we have left much of the policy that was in force at the time. The one-party state is probably over in Norway. That means we have to take more into account each other. This means that smaller parties, such as, in our case, the Left and Christian People's Party, must be taken into account to a large extent. That may seem problematic to some, but it's just as full of reality. But it helps to make policy wider and perhaps far better. The bourgeois parties are there and have a majority in this Chamber. Civil cooperation may at times be challenging, but it's there. The future will show that it survives and develops, and it should be done in a good and trusting tone. Right will always be there with an open and trusting view, because trust policy and cooperation have always been and will be the Right Mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3267	We hear from the government parties how well everything has been done, and how well the country is run – not least we hear how good the local economy has become. For those who sit out of local government and make budgets, reality looks different. In Eastfold, for example, Held with the right of the driver's seat strongly in order to increase the property tax, in agreement with the right of the driver's seat they will increase the property tax, and in Eidsberg with the right of the driver's seat they will now introduce property tax. Then we have to ask ourselves the question: will all these Right-Handed municipalities increase or introduce property taxes because the government has prioritised the municipal economy, or is it such that these Right-Handed municipalities have poor political leadership that cannot manage the economy? What does the Minister of Finance think, and what does the Minister of State think about it? 10 out of 18 Østfold municipalities receive less or the same as estimated wage and price increases, and we take with us the cut in resource-intensive services, the government does not have particular credibility in terms of the municipal economy. It's a cut budget. The government has other and more important things to spend on. Taxes of several billion a year to Norway’s richest were more important than the municipal economy. The Labour Party has other priorities for municipalities and counties. Three billion. kr more and the reversal of the increase in the proportion of resource-intensive users is warmly welcomed out there. Halden wanted 11 million. kr more, Eidsberg would get almost 4.5 million. kr more, and the council would have received more than 2.5 million. kr more for care, school and health only in 2017 with the Workers' Party's proposal. Eastfold County would have received more than 43 million. kr more for public transport, dental services and secondary schools in 2017 with the proposal of the Workers' Party. The Minister of Finance and the Government could strengthen the municipal economy for the benefit of most people. The finance minister had the opportunity, she didn't use it. It has negative consequences in the municipalities. It is noticed out there that the municipalities lost the fight when Siv Jensen, Erna Solberg and Jan Tore Sanner distributed the money. Municipal welfare services did not reach, tax cuts were more important. That's what's left of the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3277	Finally, with the Labour Party's alternative, our own health company, from which I come, Health South-East, would have had 767 million. kr more for patients in 2017. It's also left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3280	With effect from 1 January 2017, the Norwegian Church shall be an independent legal entity outside the State. A new chapter is to be written. In less than one month, the national church will have independent legal capacity outside the country, thus ending almost 500 years with a state church in Norway. There is a broad consensus between us politicians and the Norwegian Church that the process completed at New Year's is a distinction between state and church, but not between people and church. For as the Constitutional Act § 16 states: «The Norwegian Church remains the Church of Norway and is supported as such by the State.» [[...]] The bond between people and church does not appear primarily in law paragraphs, but in that 70 pst. of the Norwegian people are members of the Norwegian Church and use this church for religious services, when marking the feast days of life, or when they experience grief and misfortune in the family or as a society. The bond between peoples and churches is also evident in the central location of church buildings in our communities throughout the country. Church buildings are an expression of culture and history. They are a place of living faith, wonder and participation. It is important for the Christian People's Party to ensure the Norwegian Church an adequate framework grant, so that the Church can fulfil its role as the Church of Norway's people. Church independence and freedom also follow the responsibility of the Norwegian Church for prioritising itself within its own framework, but it is still the responsibility of the State to provide the Norwegian Church with a realistic framework for fulfilling its responsibilities as a church of the people. It is a responsibility that rests on all political parties that share the Basic Law's vision of the Norwegian Church as still a people's church in a diverse Norway. If you stand at a church scepter, in theory you should be able to look to the next church scepter. Sognication in previous times is a two-way direction – and let me make a little jump here. In my county, we are very happy that through the budget we are to adopt today, we are getting planning funds for intercity trains throughout the county. It will give us a railway with more frequent departures and shorter travel time. We are also pleased with the means of planning we get to E18 from the Eastfold border to Winterbro. It's going to be a continuous expansion and planning. It is important for society in Eastfold, but also for the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3293	Work is the key to a secure society with opportunities for everyone. Under this government hardly new jobs are created in the private sector. The government has abandoned the active enterprise policy — there are no measures in the toolbox, all emphasis is placed on nutrition and geographical neutrality, which in turn lead to priorities for bureaucracy, which are increasing more than ever. This is alarming at a time when there is a great need for change, as the situation in the South and West in particular really requires action. In the South, where I come from, it notices. Measures that are important in the conversion of the national divide are not a priority of the government. There are several examples of this in the government budget, and I will mention a couple. Mechatronics Innovation Lab is important for the transition facing South Africa, as a national centre for innovation, piloting and technology qualification for industry. It is disappointing, therefore, that the government has never, before or now, prioritised appropriations for this center. I also record this time that it is the budgetary agreement that saves the allocation to MIL. The government has also cut significantly every year in regional development funds — funds used by county municipalities around the country, which know the need for nutrient development in their counties. In its alternative budget, the Workers' Party has increased these funds by 200 million. kr. A corresponding amount has been entered in the budget agreement, but only reallocated funds from municipalities and county councils. The working party has given 2 billion in its alternative budget. kr more to the municipalities and 1 billion. kr more to the counties. That's going to be 69.4 million. kr more to the municipalities of Vest-Agder and 32.4 million. kr more to the county. This means many more nurses, nurses and teachers both in the municipalities and in the county. Southern hospitals are struggling financially and have to make large cuts. 1 billion. kr more to the hospital has been added to the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2017. Unfortunately, the budget agreement is exacerbating the situation for hospitals even more. Nearly half a billion are cut into new efficiency requirements for hospitals, and it is serious cuts that the Workers' Party does not support – a bill that is now sending patients and those who work in hospitals. In Southern hospitals, this is likely to be about. Seventy-five million. kr, the money that the hospital could spend on equipment, new treatment methods and faster treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3306	I fully agree with Nils Arne Eggen, Marit Breivik and Åge Alexandersen, wise trousers, when they say so well that life has shown us that the big problems we do best together. Because in Norway, we have a long tradition of solving the big problems together. Our strength lies in strong communities and the belief that small differences between peoples are a good thing for the welfare community. It's also made us the world's best country to live in. Therefore, communities and small differences have been the cornerstone of the Workers' Party for generations. In the last three years, the story of Norway has been slowly, but probably changed. For three years we have had a government that in the budget by budget increases the differences between poor and rich, between women and men, between city and country. Year after year, the government has prioritised tax cuts for those who have the most from before, rather than investing in education, work, health and climate. That's the wrong policy. It's the wrong action force. That's the wrong priority. It takes Norway in the wrong direction. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said earlier this year in an article on Facebook that it means something who controls. She's right about that. For the South, it means a lot who controls this country. With the Workers' Party in the government, the municipalities of Sør-Trøndelag would receive 113 million. kr more. There could be 162 more injured nurses, teachers, nurses or health professionals. Governments say no. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, 35 teachers at 11 secondary schools in the South-Trøndelag had continued to teach and help young people who need it. Governments say no. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, the hospitals in central Norway had a reinforcement of 204 million. kr for faster and more treatment. Governments say no. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, Investinor had continued to be the largest state venture company with significant opportunities to invest in the hundreds of millions of potential new jobs. Governments say no. Yes, it means something who controls this country. South-Tronde Teams don't need big tax cuts to them most of the time. They need a government that sees the whole country, that prioritises more teachers and more patient treatment, and that will retain an important venture company in Investinor. I think that's enough now. Norway needs a new majority, and the South is in need of a new government. Politics is about want," said Olof Palme. The Labour Party will and the Labour Party will have different priorities. For us, school, health, the elderly and climate are more important than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3325	Today we are dealing with a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. When we talk in the Right about good welfare and the patient's healthcare, it's about ensuring a good meeting with the health and care services, whether you're a patient, a user or a relative. We're moving power from the system to the patient, and we've introduced free treatment options. The waiting times have fallen considerably, more people get help, and all seriously ill patients are now entitled to their own hospital contact doctor. In its efforts to create the patient’s healthcare system, the government has launched several major reforms, such as cancer package schedules, user-controlled personal assistant rights, the right to contact doctors for seriously ill, and not least the introduction of free treatment options for patients with drug dependence and for those who are struggling with mental illness. The greatest social inequality is experiencing serious addicts of addiction. They have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than for the rest of the population. This is an inequality we can't live with. This is also the reason why we started work from the day one in government to strengthen the supply of drug addicts. The waiting time for drug treatment is now reduced by 40 pst. - Almost a month. When the Workers' Party says they want to reverse the reform of free treatment if they get government power, it scares me – this is because we know that a reversal of the reform means great consequences for those who labor the most. Those with drug problems will be most affected, as it is this patient group that is currently the most beneficial for free treatment choices. For eight years in government, the Workers' Party did not give priority to this field. Neither do they now, in opposition. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, today's government has made a change of pace in the Russian policy, and last year we presented the framework for a binding escalating plan for the drug field – with a strengthening of a total of 2.4 billion. until 2020. We have also launched a promise for people with mental health problems. In the Public Health Communication, Mestring and opportunities were assimilated to physical and mental health for the first time. This is followed up by a large public health programme in the municipalities, where mental health for children and young people should be the main theme. Work is under way on a new national mental health strategy, and drug-free treatment is being established in all health regions. In order to prevent better the health of children and young people, we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have provided a strong strengthening of health and school health services – a strengthening of over 1 billion. kr. The cancer package sequence works well. The government is therefore also investigating the package of drugs and mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3342	This is hopefully the last time the Stortinge has a financial debate with the Right and the Advance Party at the rudder and with a civil majority at the Stortinget. It may be interesting to look back on what the fasitite is after three years with a civil majority and with the Right Party government. In short, it can be summarised in higher unemployment rates, increased disparities and weakened welfare opportunities. There is no doubt that falling oil prices have given rise to a significant challenge and pressure on the Norwegian economy, and the government is just as little to blame for the falling oil prices as the red-green government had for the financial crisis. However, after eight red-green years — with the financial crisis — Europe’s lowest unemployment rate, less disparities in society, and Norway’s competitiveness strengthened. This is about the right side's ability to unload a country safely through unsafe waters, and here the government has failed. We see it in two areas in particular. Firstly, your solutions do not work in the real world. It is not unique in Norway, by and large. Many other countries facing the financial crisis with measures similar to those of today’s government met the oil price, experienced the same thing as Norway is facing today, rapidly increasing unemployment, increasing disparities and increasing social unrest. Higher unemployment rates in these countries have tended to persist at a high level. Unfortunately, we also see signs of this in Norway. In a number of European countries, cutbacks in social benefits have led to increased unrest, increased despair and increased conflict, giving rise to populism. The second is that we have seen that, although we now need strong solutions to combat unemployment, to solve important welfare issues and the climate crisis, the government's budgetary process has been marked by chaos, overtime, and failure to address the major challenges. We're dealing with a government that's good at problem description, but doesn't have the ability to solve the problems. It has great consequences for our prospects, and therefore we need a new majority in the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3353	Governments and cooperation parties are now delivering a budget for activity, work and conversion, for more jobs, better well-being and significant emissions cuts. The draft budget will reduce the negative effects of low oil prices and stimulate business to change. The state budget contains a lot of good medicine for the country and also for my part of the country, South Africa, where the fall in oil prices has led to empty order books in many companies and increased unemployment, with all that it brings. Many have worn heavily. Although we see that the Norwegian economy is improving, there is still a need for change. Therefore, it is important that the government continues to follow up with the 4 billion conversion package. Dr to the South and the West, with funding for infrastructure and transport, with the focus on prisons in Agder, the construction of new psychiatry buildings in the South. I heard the representative of Omland was disappointed that the government did not allocate funds to MIL. I'm glad that the government, together with the cooperation parties, is now adding the last million to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab on the table. It is an important tool for the transformation and development of the industry in the South and also in the rest of the country. For the right, contributing to job creation and profitable jobs is one of our highest priority tasks. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we see that they have proposed a tax increase of 10.5 billion. kr, and in addition, a possible tax bill of between 15 billion. DKK and 22 billion to finance the budget commitments they make. It's actually the last businesses in our part of the country need now. I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties are delivering a budget which is also heavily invested in knowledge, innovation and research this year. In vocational training, which has been particularly vulnerable to high school drop-outs, apprenticeship grants are once again greatly increased, and it is important in the fight for more places of learning. One of the most enjoyable measures in this year's education budget is, as I see it, the post-secondary education budget. The government has recently submitted the vocational education message, and the budgetary signals indicate that this sector will now be given a stronger priority. It is to the credit of the government that a real initiative is finally taken to develop a higher vocational education and training. Even LO was pleased with that. The labour market is asking for professionals with good education and skills. A stronger vocational education sector will make an important contribution to providing the skills needed to cope with the transition in business. In addition, there will be a better balance within the higher education offer, and there is a development that I very much want to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3366	The heading of the year’s budgetary process has been climate. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to have a climate budget that cuts emissions, which sets the pace of conversion to a low-carbon society – a budget that shows direction. The measures shall be feasible and of a nature enabling the citizens of Norway to conclude on the measures. I read in the evening post last week that a head of state in one of the government parties said that we cannot have the climate budget of the times every year. This may reveal some of the challenges we have faced. The answer to this is that we actually need the climate budget of the times every year for many years in order to achieve the climate goals. The climate is high on the environmental policy agenda, naturally enough. Always when we're discussing nature and governance and the relationship in nature, we have to think completely. A number of measures that have a good climate impact also have a positive impact on other nature-related issues. For example, better ant management is both a climate action and an important measure for biodiversity. Climate change is particularly evident in Arctic regions. That's why we've fought for this 5 million. kr for research on ice-dependent mammals. Climate change is in a special way threatening the ice-cream areas of the Arctic. At the same time, ice-free areas are opened up for nutritional purposes. In these areas, it is particularly important to use the precautionary principle. The consequences of intervention from either petroleum activity, fishing or other activities can be enormous. We need to acquire more knowledge. In this area, too, the management and use of natural areas must be knowledge-based and be respectful of nature's context. Forests are immeasurably important both for the climate and for the diversity of species. We are pleased that forest protection has increased — a moderate increase, so that voluntary protection can still be the procedure. I want to end with what I think is the most important thing. Well, that's 15 million. kr to start up the Åknesremna project in More and Romesdal. This means that NVE can now start investigating whether drainage will have the desired effect in Åkneset, in line with what they experience in Italy and Canada. If you can stabilize the mountain side, it means a lot to the 10,000 inhabitants along the fjord on Sunnmøre. Maybe we've all seen the movie "The Wave" and the scenario that can happen if this mountain falls down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3381	On Saturday, the news came up: the cooperation parties had found a solution to drive the country in 2017 – hours before the financial debate. After so much root and conflicting control signals, it is easy to see that the objective of agreeing also became overriding for other objectives. The result is inter alia: that hospitals have to carry a cut of 0.5 billion. kr of the approx. 7 B.C.E. kr that the Left and Christian People's Party is now proud and happy to have moved on in the budgetary conciliation. The working party wants a strong public health service to be accessible to all, regardless of the wallet and where a resident lives. Through prevention, early intervention and good treatment when you get sick, one in our community health care should get the best help throughout your life. The Labour Party prioritises the municipalities, where health services are closest to people and where prevention efforts can make the greatest difference. The budget of the Workers' Party is therefore 2 billion. kr more to the municipalities for these important tasks. Hospitals and the rest of the specialist healthcare services in Norway are of high quality, but many patients still experience errors, lack of information and poor cooperation in dealing with healthcare. If we are to stop the development of a two-part healthcare service in Norway, we must say no to even more privatisation that prevents good management of resources where they are most needed. Rest around the organisation of hospitals, better economy, the development of new treatments, new drugs, new technologies and good professional management is the answer – no more transactions and more fragmentation of the service, as the government recommends. The working party has delivered 12 billion. In contrast to the Right, which has run from its promises to patients. The budget of the Workers' Party would be 204 million. kr more to Health Mid-Norway, to the region I come from. And for the hospitals in the North Trøndelag, which is my home state, it would give me $41 million. kr more, which would make it possible to balance without cutting off the activity from this year to next year. Unfortunately, our community health services were down in the last hour by the civil parties, and the Right ran from its promise to the patients to strengthen the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3394	In my first post, I talked about well-being and the government's work in creating the patient's healthcare. To the right is to contribute to the creation of our highest priority task. Without income from private business, welfare services will be poor in the future. In the autumn of 2013, the government took over a country where employment and development in the economy had become highly dependent on the oil price. The opportunity was on the way up. All the budgets the government has promoted for the Storting, has stimulated more jobs, increased activity and necessary conversion — as has been the case with the Right for a long time, and especially after the oil price fell so dramatically. Large parts of Norwegian business have been through a tough period in recent years. Many have been forced to adapt to a day-to-day life with increased unemployment and downtime. This has particularly affected the South and West, including my own state, More and Romesdal. I am impressed and proud of the ability to change and innovate in the companies in Møre and Romesdal, a ability to adapt that has been more painful for some than for others and that has been crucial for companies and jobs to survive, and for companies to remain competitive in a global market. The Government and the Storting are responsible for facilitating the continuation of this important transformation by enterprises. The government has listened to industries and is now spending $4 billion. D to targeted actions in the State budget for 2017, too, in order to create activities and jobs in regions and sectors most affected. We continue to invest in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting taxes. For industry, the reduction of corporate taxes, property taxes, the extension of the TaxFUNN scheme and the simplification of the VAT system are important measures that help business to create more jobs. In the Sunnmørspost we could read that ‘this has passed’, and ‘totally they are delivering good’ – concrete feedback from company managers at Sunnmøre to the government when the state budget was presented in October. ‘The budget contains a lot of good, but would have liked to have had a little more on tax.’ The message came from the NHO, which aims at the difficult wealth tax that Norwegian-owned corner stone companies have to pay, while competing companies owned by foreign companies and owners are dropping out. It's unfair. That the Workers' Party's budget increases taxes by 10,5 billion. kr for enterprises and jobs, also shows what can be expected of a new red-green government. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the government and the cooperation parties, who in the negotiations found room for 15 million. kr for a pre-project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3416	Vestfold has done a formidable job to meet the municipal reform, and we go from 14 municipalities today to 6 municipalities in 2020. Local politicians from all parties have made a huge effort, and local authorities have worked hard. Local politicians work these days to get their municipal budgets into port, and I must therefore say that I am disappointed on behalf of Vestfold. One of the main objectives of the municipal reform is to be able to provide an equivalent service to citizens. One of the main policy instruments in the income system is the redistribution of tax income from municipalities with high tax incomes to municipalities with low tax incomes. With today’s cohesion, there are large differences between municipalities in income levels, where Vestfold municipalities are among the losers. Government policy increases the differences between poor and rich. It's not good for the Westfold community. In Westfold we face major challenges in the field of child poverty, and unfortunately we have far too many young people who are disabled and young people with disabilities – numbers and human capitals that we as a society cannot live with. Unfortunately, the municipalities in Vestfold are called low-income municipalities. Is it fair for you to decide which municipality you live in to help you? In sustainable low-income municipalities, we also have lower investment capacity, where we have less financial space to build new schools, kindergartens and hospitals. New Sandfjord municipality is the first municipality in the country to merge, and we are sewing together a budget for the new municipality in these days. This municipal budget is a good example of having a high investment need, but cuts in the service offer to get this done. It shouldn't be like that. The Workers' Party's alternative state budget would be over 90 million. kr more to the Vestfold municipalities. $22.4 million. of these would have gone to new Sandefjords, which could have gone to measures to combat child poverty or enhance investment capacity. The working party is committed to ensuring an income system that provides a fair distribution and an equivalent service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3428	We in the Vestfold Workers' Party want a better tax equalization between tax-intensive municipalities and tax-weak municipalities, which would benefit Vestfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3432	Once again, the government is presenting a budget that follows the objective of ensuring that everyone has access to equivalent quality health care. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have told us over the last three years that we have been missing in all areas of health, both in hospitals and in municipalities. We are fully aware of that, but it is after eight years of red-green deprioritisation of hospitals, care for the elderly, drugs, mental health and rehabilitation. We've actually made a formidable effort to lift all of these areas up again. The research team has worked to reduce unnecessary, non-medically justified waiting for patients. This has given us shorter waiting time and 80,000 fewer patients in line. The draft budget provides room for continued high levels of patient treatment in hospitals. The Progress Party has been particularly concerned with giving priority to the provision of services to patients in the field of mental health and drug abuse. That is why we have presented the escalation plan of the times, which is followed up in this budget. In a budget for better well-being and a safe everyday life, the government therefore proposes to contribute several hundred million fresh dollars, so that the area can be raised further. This will contribute to increased capacity and quality in the supply of people who are struggling with addiction or mental distress. As if this isn't enough, we're working on 22 package steps in the areas of mental health and drug abuse. We do this in order to improve predictability and quality of the offer, according to the model of the successful packaging processes for cancer. The contribution of community psychologists, heavy health and school health services as outreach multidisciplinary teams are also measures on which this government has invested and which need to be strengthened further. The phasing-in plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is presented at the same time as this draft budget, proposing 200 million. kr to the escalating plan. A great deal of rehabilitation must be done in the municipalities, while rehabilitation in the specialist health service must be carried out. It is worth noting that an escalation plan for habilitation and rehabilitation was voted down by the red-greens over eight years. The development of several lucky days care places is facilitated and the extended grant scheme is maintained. Several places are also provided for day-to-day services for residents with dementia. We have adopted an obligation for the municipalities to have this offer by 2020, and in the meantime we are providing good grants for municipalities to start a work they know they have to implement whether they want to or not. It actually means a lot to who controls our country, and everyone who has some sort of health challenge has been the winner in all our budgets, looking up to the eight red-green years without health in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3454	The government has seen reduced taxes and taxes collected by approx. 21 B.C.E. kr since 2013, and the Labour Party has tried to make this sound like there is money going directly into the savings account for a few, fortunately selected. When the Labour Party talks negatively about the taxes to the government, it may be worth recalling what the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen said a few months before she became the Council of State in 2009: ‘If the country’s political leadership is given a more entrepreneurial insight into how the tax actually absorbs small and medium-sized enterprises for the capital needed in the development of the enterprises, then we have come a long way. This is actually a corporate tax and not a personal tax. Today, there are still many politicians who have the false impression that the property tax is only ‘a mere expense that the rich can afford to pay’.’ The politicians Berg-Hansen talk about are primarily own colleagues in the Labour Party, who openly want to lose small and medium-sized enterprises for capital. I have now spent three years as a full-time politician. It's a new experience and it's very different than being a businessman. I believe that Norwegian business can turn challenges into opportunities – if we politically facilitate this. The Labour Party is talking about work to everyone today, as if they can adopt new jobs. There is no politician in itself who can create productive jobs. In 2013, we took over a country where the employment and development of the economy had become highly dependent on the oil price. The unemployment was on the way up, and the part of the Norwegians in the job was on the way down. No, in 2016, there is a sign of economic hardship, but the rise is actually vulnerable. If business were to be exposed to the large tax accumulators of the Workers' Party, the rise may be reversed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3467	We still have major challenges at home in the West. The government has taken the most serious job losses, and this budget provides the basis for increased investment, for conversion and for growth. The reality is that we have never created more jobs than in the last year, and the number of women entrepreneurs is also higher than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3470	11,705 people are out of work in Rogaland. 7,824 are men, preferably young men. Today's Haugesund Newspaper clearly states: The availability is still increasing. More goes for a long time without work. This is pointed out by Nav Director Truls Nordahl in a press release to the same newspaper. Furthermore, it is found that the period of leave is 11 p.m. higher today than in the same period last year. The hour of gravity is not over in Rogaland. The alarm is still running, and one should expect that more intensive measures had been taken to reduce unemployment. I'm afraid the situation has bitten. We in the Workers' Party will continue to claim that the big tax cuts have not given the expected new jobs the government has promised people. The Labour Party will also continue to claim that the struggle for unemployment is our job no. one. Yes, I dare say it outright: there is a big difference between a government that has tax cuts to the richest as job no. one, and a government that has work for everyone as a job no. one. The government of Stoltenberg put on the table an action package of 20 billion. kr. The government of Solberg puts billions in tax cuts on the table on its guard. I'm going to admit one thing: I was actually, on behalf of Rogaland, ready to swallow some camels if there were large packages of measures that would improve the situation. I was ready to praise the government. That's why I'm passing by. Instead, I am speaking today on behalf of the 7,824 men and 3,881 women in Rogaland who wake up every day without work to go to, where unemployment still rises while we talk. Christmas greetings from the government this year, as last year, are greatest for those with the greatest fortunes. The unemployed seem to have been forgotten this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3485	I'm a citizen. That's why I'm civil. I am to distribute power to the greatest possible number of hands. I don't think politicians have special gifts of mercy by being politicians. Human beings are faulty no matter how much power they have, or what position they have. Some human misassessments shall not affect all, and many human misassessments shall not exceed few. I respect minorities. That's why I'm civil. I believe that the family is the foundation of our society, and I want politicians as far away from the families as possible. It has to do with respect – respect for diversity, respect for different people and respect for family ties. That's why I'm civil. I believe in responsibility, that we have a common responsibility for society, and that we must prevent alienation, help people who have lost their feet. At the same time, each one has a responsibility. Norwegian society drowns in a flood of paternalism adopted in this room. Unfortunately, I realize that much of that paternalism is irreversible. But I believe that the concept of responsibility must be repatriated, and that is why I am civil. I believe that the most important account we have is the generation account. It means a concern for the sustainability of the welfare state, that it is sustainable for future generations. That's why I'm civil. This is a civil government, and the changes we're making, whether it's near-police reform, tax relief, municipal reform, adjustments in the work environment law, more freedom of choice for the family or the cleanup of Nav, where we close holes in the security network, as the red-green pilots stand behind as big roots in involuntary inaction, it's all about exactly these things – the bourgeois project. And this is a civil budgetary union. We continue to take Norway through the long-term transition, through both important climate action, short-term measures to address the consequences of the 30-year greatest oil price drop and long-term measures to equip Norway for the future, including: by taxing less work, making it more attractive for the private sector to invest in new projects and employees. This last thing I talked about is the left-hand side calls tax relief to the rich. It's so easy to say, a claim that doesn't require any intellectual activity – nothing, just emptiness. And then that's the alternative, what the other side has to offer. When they are trying to fill that vacuum with content, there is a tax bill for Norwegian jobs of 10 billion. kr, or to claim that the difference between responsible and irresponsible economic governance is 4 billion. kr. It's completely empty. In the meantime, we're continuing the bourgeois project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3506	It's been an exciting time towards this day. When four different batches are to put their mark on the last budget against the potting option, it is no wonder that it has been extra demanding. I am pleased that the country has a prime minister who has managed to unload this state budget safely in port, a government budget that is well suited to the challenges facing our country and which not least facilitates strong investment in infrastructure, research and innovation. In today's debate, the opposition has tried to create a picture of civil dissatisfaction. They have clearly forgotten the chaos that prevailed in the closed rooms of the red-green government. For us who witnessed this in the previous period, the debts that red-green politicians bring with us are both historyless and false. It's enough to mention two examples of such things from my home country: the mineral expansion in the Engebøjellet in Naustdal and the traséval for the E39 in Nordfjord. They were blocked by the small parties in the government, and there had to be a Right Party government to cut through and put in place good, wise and forward-looking decisions in these cases. The right-hand forward party government has gotten a lot in the last three years. The two things I mentioned – Enbø and Traséval – got the government after red-green root. In addition, the Right-front party government was able to rectify the gross lifting break from red-green politicians against more than 240 small power plants that were promised green certificates. During this period, a holiday relief scheme for the county road network has also been put in place, which, unlike the failed model of the red-green government, will provide the basis for the massive development of fixed connections on the coast. I am pleased that today we have adopted a government budget based on the right-wing party government's proposals, which have many important measures for my homeland, Sogn and Fjordane. I would like to mention some of them: loans for the modernisation and upgrading of the central hospital in Førde, with 18 million. kr in 2017 and an investment framework of SEK 1,125 billion. NOK and SEK 144 million. kr to E39 Bjørset – Skei in Jölster. In addition, there is money for several projects on E16, E39 and Rv. 5th@item: inlistbox In 2017, there'll be 60 million. kr to the scrapping project on rv. 13 Vik-Vangsnes. The system of interest compensation for transport measures in the counties is also continued. The 2017 investment framework for Sogn and Fjordane will be 116.7 million. kr and the interest compensation of about 9,6 million. kr. Budgetary envelopes have also given important implications for Sogn and Fjordane. I would like to thank the government's negotiators for their decisive support for increased loss compensation, more money for broadband expansion, racial protection, new Norwegian newspapers, UWC funds, and not least for the stryn ski shooting line. The landline for skiing in Stryn has been one of the things that Right-President Sven Flo in Stryn, together with Stryn's ongoing school, has been working with in a very constructive and creative way for many years. I am pleased to be able to support this work and that this action will be implemented in the 2017 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3522	There is no other matter that gets as much budgetary love from the Right and the Advance Party's people as the tax cuts. It may be a crush that the government parties will keep a little secret, but even if they don't talk loud about it, it's obvious to everyone. 21 B.C.E. The tax haven is not so easy to hide, especially when the government makes record in the use of oil money to finance the glory. As the newspaper Nordlys wrote yesterday: «The government and the supporting parties have had Christmas table. The Prime Minister draws the card and pays with money belonging to the next generation of Northmen.’ This policy can be defended if it produces results, but we have more unemployed people than in 20 years, and almost no new jobs are created. The government's economic policy does not work – not on unemployment, not on employment, not for the West, not for North Norway. On the contrary, they redistribute from districts to central districts, allow rural and northern policies to go on empty, and from the states of the north and elsewhere in the country they take the means and tools to control themselves. A good example of this is the cuts in regional development funds. It gives people elected in the north and elsewhere in the country the opportunity to launch their own projects based on local knowledge, but that pot is cut year after year. The only government seems to be fully involved is tax cuts and centralization. When you arrive at a budgetary settlement as late as it is now, Norwegian states have been told that they have to cut their budgets by 100 million. kr. Now state politicians are sitting in all the counties of the country, also in my home country, and are going to deal with budgets, without knowing how much they have to cut. It's on the verge of irresponsible. We also need a greater commitment to competence. The government will end the system of increasing teacher density in youth. The working party will keep it. I myself have visited some of the schools that have received several high school teachers – the Tromsdalen and the Kroken in Tromsø – who now lose four teachers each. Only in Tromsø are twelve teachers gone. The working party will keep those teachers in school. We'll let the young people who want it get a profession. That's why we want to give more chances of studying. We're increasing the number of study places by 3,000. We want to give the professions a bigger boost. We're going to spend 325 million. more than the government in the professional field, for apprenticeship grants, for more practices for pupils, for equipment in schools and for counselling in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3535	In the budget of the Right and Advance Party, we see oil-smelled tax cuts. That's money we should spend on community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3538	This government reinforces the climate agreement, we heard the Prime Minister say on Saturday evening – quite eager by a Prime Minister who leads a government that is in no way near to reaching the climate agreement. It is simply not possible to reinforce a policy that you do not intend to achieve. Climate policy is not measured by the instruments used, it is measured whether we are actually able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Despite promises that every budget this period has ever been the greenest budget, emissions have increased with this government. The Government is pursuing a policy which is the premise that the Paris Agreement is not to be reached. The Paris Agreement was a major international breakthrough, but it is worthless if not all countries do the job at home. Vidar Helgesen's first big play as a new climate minister last year was that he could not promise that the emissions would go down with him as Minister. Erna Solberg then met in the Questionnaire and said it was good that he was honest. And it's nice to be honest, but it's just as nice to do your job. Vidar Helgesen has chosen the wrong job if he is unable to get the emissions down. It must be bad to be a climate minister in a government without climate policy, or – to use the Prime Minister’s own words: it is tougher to stand up to climate in a government where not everyone is so concerned about it. I want to praise the Left and Christian People's Party for making the climate budget better. It's true, as they say, climate has shaped the debate in the last month. It's good, but it would have been even better if it had shaped the policy we're going to adopt today, because there's a majority in this room for a far more offensive climate policy than the one that's going to be adopted, among other things. with the Workers' Party's climate package, which cuts emissions much more than the draft budget did, and also considerably more than what will be adopted. It is the tip of Norwegian climate policy that has been set the pace during this four-year period, which proposes cutting in important areas both at home in Norway and in our international effort. Every year, it has been proposed to break the climate agreement's promises to the rainforest. For Norwegian nature too, there has been a poor budget. We heard the minister earlier today try to hoove over the forest protection effort to the red-green ones. It simply falls on its own unreasonableness. Every year his own government has proposed cutbacks. Two years ago, they even proposed cutting two thirds of the appropriations. Fortunately, the Stortinget has been overrun by the Right-Fremskritspart government. Continuously, this government, when it comes to pointing to initiative, points to something that the Left Party or the Christian People's Party has done, or something where the Storing has overrun them. It's true, as Trine Skei Grande said before the elections three years ago: in climate policy, the Progress Party is not just on another planet, they're in another universe. Unfortunately, the policy of this universe is being pursued, with the leader of the Progress Party and the finance minister who has the last, decisive word. That's one of many reasons why we need a new majority, a majority that cuts emissions at home, that takes care of Norwegian nature, and that stops cutting our international climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3548	There have been demanding negotiations which eventually led to agreement. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that we have achieved such a clear commitment to children – new important measures against children at risk of violence and early schooling. But we are also pleased that we have managed to prioritize the collective effort and increase funds for the districts in relation to the government's proposals. There has been broad agreement on sustainable climate-friendly transport solutions. We have important climate targets to achieve. Emissions in the transport sector shall be reduced by 50 pst. by 2030. It's fully achievable. But then it's important to take the right action, which can strengthen the climate-friendly collective effort that the train represents. Therefore, the increased level of railway investment in the negotiated solution is an important climate policy measure. Not only is the maintenance and investment funds significantly increased, but the means to continue planning the entire intercity effort have been put in place for 2017. The newly established system, the incentive system, for getting more goods across from road to sea, has seen a significant increase in relation to the government budget. When the Christian People's Party made proposals in Stortinget in spring, it was a prerequisite for the arrangement to be established from 2017. An increase in the subsidy funds from the government’s 30 million. NOK 82 million. kr was absolutely necessary in order to make the scheme sufficiently attractive. This means that new routes at sea can be established and goods moved from road to sea. For the Christian People's Party, it has also been important that raced highways are introduced new, fresh means. In order for people to live and travel safely throughout the country, it is necessary to increase the effort on racially exposed routes. It is about life and health, and there is a need to further increase the funds for tailoring in the years to come. This applies to both national and county roads. The development of broadband is also an important measure that increases the possibility of living and working across the country. When we know how much engagement in dollars and dollars the public broadband funds create, in the form of new bets from broadband companies themselves, the proposed increase is 45 million. money used very well to ensure good communication opportunities for more people. In the South, there is great joy in the fact that the MIL, popularly known as the Southern Club, now with the means of the Christian People's Party together with the Left, got in place in the cooperation solution, 30 million. kr, is fully financed. An exciting environment for new technology development is being created in a part of the country which is severely affected by the situation in the oil and gas sector and which can have a significant impact on the efficiency of this sector that it needs over the next few years, but also in order to be able to use known technologies in new environmentally friendly areas, such as: the sea winch.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3558	Does it matter who's in charge? Yes, it does. Local economy is a good example. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane had 46.6 million. kr more to create the 2017 budget for if the working party’s alternative budget had a medical basis. There are many teachers, nurses, and a lot of care. The county had a population of 60.6 million. kr more, including to the benefit of our continuing schools. The budget actually shows promises and speeches, words and actions in agreement. And in action, yes, there is the government party to strike. Sogn and Fjordane are Renewable Counties No. 1 in Norway. We can be Norway's renewable battery. To the Progress Party, which is so engrossed by carrots in climate policy: Where is the carrot for climate action in my country? Centralisation of important workplaces away from the county is the most prominent – not carrots and positive incentives. Not even setting down the calculation rate wants to go to the Ministry of Finance. Here it was 52 million. kr more for the fjord state with a set of 3 pst. instead of today's 4.5 pst. Sogn and Fjordane are also an important fishing and export group. Now we feel that the Minister for Fisheries is going out and against the EEA Agreement, this agreement that gives us market access to the EU, our most important market in seafood. He gives us free quotas on fish and reduces customs duties on individual fish species. Can Erna Solberg live with a fisheries minister who pulled away the carpet under the legs of the seafood industry, the most important growth industry for Norway in the future? Here it would be in place with an ultimatum. Will you sit in government, sir? Sandberg, you must work for the EEA Agreement and market access for Norwegian seafood – sentence. Very much that would benefit the districts and Sogn and Fjordane could be named from the working party's responsible, alternative budget. The working party increases the pot for investment in sports facilities, for county roads, for racial protection, regional development funds, the hospital sector, travel and broadband, to name a few, and presents a powerful growth package for activity and work in the South and West. We in the Labour Party have 3,000 new study places in our alternative budget. At that time, the Climate Change-lina in Sogndal was able to receive 15 new students and thus full class, engineering and construction in Förde 25 new study places and nurse training 10. Yes, it makes a difference who controls. The Reds believe in a work and business effort that actually works, strengthening health and schooling, risky climate policies and social and geographical outreach.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3573	It is strange to follow this debate and especially hear the Right, first the Representative Fleet, and then follow the others, tell us that this budget is excellent. This should be noted by the labour, business and actors in Norwegian society. The fact that the Progress Party does not conduct a responsible economic policy is not a great surprise, nor the rhetoric they use. But the fact that Right, who made himself the guarantor of responsible economic governance during the previous election campaign, is on the move, and that Prime Minister and Right-leader Erna Solberg is involved in such a large and large public fundraiser and a record high oil money usage, which will create great problems for those who come after us, is not to be believed. That they give high tax cuts to the richest and thus increase the differences between people in this country, is no surprise. But that they're not more concerned with creating jobs is disappointing. Over four years, government policies have helped to weaken the standard and increase the uncertainty of the labour market. Attacks on employees' rights such as temporary employment, opportunities for more evening and weekend work, removal of important social dumping instruments and cutting funds to stop involuntary part-time work are just a few examples. These are also effective contributions that increase the differences between people and help undermine the entire Norwegian model. And let me underline: all this has been voted against by the Workers' Party, and this is to be reversed when we come to power. We have a government that claims to be concerned with knowledge, but here, 600 teachers were cut in youth. 21 of them are in my home state, Hedmark. I've spoken to several of the schools that are now being cut. None of them think this is a good idea, and they're worried about how they're going to be able to follow up students in their teens who are struggling. Our alternative budget proposes 3 000 new places of study, a very important one. We now need to train more people to serve and develop tomorrow's work and create jobs in new areas such as bioeconomy, technology and ICT. That is why the Workers' Party has, among other things: proposed to designate 40 new places of study for the College of Hedmark in Kongsvinger in these areas. This is, of course, important in a national context, but it is equally important to strengthen educational provision in a country far behind in this context. That is why I am disappointed with Hedmark's representatives in their positions, who are not in this position. In addition, there will probably be reactions in my county that it will now be cut close to half a billion to the hospitals. It is amazing that someone thinks this should not go beyond the treatment offer. I just mentioned the big thing that is now at the hospital in Elverum. Money is to be saved, and the neonatal intensity and the children's ward will be moved out of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3585	When tax credits to the richest are the government's most important project, it must be so, but that the Left and Christian People's Party are involved in this, I really would not have believed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3588	The parties to the Government today express great satisfaction with their submitted budget. I have also noticed that this concerns the budget framework for hospitals in the country, despite the fact that the government is weakening its hospital budget by half a billion kroner. A reduction, if distributed mathematically, will mean approx. Ten million. kr less for the Hospital Telemark. In Telemark, we're worried. The hospital Telemark is struggling with the economy today. There is already a large deficit that needs to be collected to balance and to gain control of the operation. There is a development plan for the Hospital Telemark. It is interesting and is in line with the needs to ensure health security for the entire population of Telemark. It's not realized. On the way, in order to achieve the objectives of the development plan and to gain control of the economy, Health South-East chose to shut down local hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø. It has not solved the economic problems, but has led to more insecurity for people. The government is doing nothing to resolve the situation. On the contrary, what is now being presented, with a reduced financial framework for the Hospital Telemark, makes a difficult situation much worse. The working party has included in its alternative budget an increased framework for strengthening the hospital economy. This is how we will ensure the safety of life and health for our citizens. In our opinion, hospitals need predictability and a good enough financial framework to develop their services to the population – a further development in line with the needs of the population and in line with the ever-increasing opportunities offered by research and technology development. This has not been facilitated in the hospital section of the submitted government budget from government and supporting parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3600	I will start by thanking the voters in Austria for supporting a 'pro-European' policy, as Mr van der Bellen stands for. I also call for the same majority to say no to an anti-European, backward populist policy – represented by Norbert Hofer. My wish is that the French voters give Le Pen the same feedback. What is happening in Europe affects us – at good and bad – and should therefore have its own place in this debate. I must admit that the growing debate about our relationship with the EEA at home is disturbing me. If there is something we do not need, creating uncertainty about our relationship with Europe and thus helping to risk Norwegian jobs. For this reason, unemployment in our country is too high. The representatives of the right-wing parties criticise the Labour Party's draft budget. They have to do that, but my claim is that the social democratic value-seeing trumps the value-liberalism that lies at the bottom of the blue-blue parties. As a district representative, I know that this claim holds, because I see that the Community idea, on which we all depend, is put at risk at the expense of cultivating the few. The right went to the elections in 2013 with slogans that they would change Norway. They've made that clear. ‘It has something to say who controls’, as the representative Nordby Lunde expressed it. She's right, we're looking at it in the area by area, but then with a negative sign. Several party colleagues have been involved in the local economy in this debate. I will not repeat what has been said. Unfortunately, however, we note that in Alta and in Finnmark, a reduction in many important welfare areas is now being discussed due to reduced transfers. Alta would have gotten an estimated 8.8 million. kr more, and Finnmark County would receive more than 22 million. kr more if our draft budget had gone through. Public employment is important – Oslo knows that and centralised it all. But in Finnmark we see that state jobs are dismantled – everything should be so much better just being moved out of the county. But it doesn't get any better, it just gets worse and worse. Also the people of Finnmark need to meet people face to face where they live, in their meetings with public administration. We also record that such an important industry as fisheries is increasingly being privatised. In the eagerness to change Norway, we see delivery obligations jeopardized and fishing resources transferred to fewer and fewer hands. The message from Finnmark in this context is quite clear: the fishing resources belong to the community. Using the economy of health enterprises as a balancing item in the year’s budgetary settlement is, to put it mildly, alarming. Think of 427 million. kr could have contributed to increased patient treatment! Everyone sitting in this room knows that the Norwegian Health Service will meet one morning, where each krona can make an important difference. As the Ombudsman of the Finnmark population, I have a clear message: use some of the 427 million health bills to offer a decent travel offer to patients who depend on airplanes to get home after finishing specialist treatment! Waiting 14 hours for the cheapest flight offer is unworthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3621	It is not common to deliver travel letters and greetings at home in the finance debate, but after hearing Simensen and earlier today's representative Berg-Hansen, I think I have to do so with regard to some points here. The representative Berg-Hansen had a visit to Båtsfjord, where, first of all, she could provide a small example of forward policy from when she herself was the Council of State, but she also went up some issues that I might not know completely again. If the representative Berg-Hansen wants us to meet next time in Båtsfjord, and if we take a little better time, we're going to take a round around Valen, and then we're going to visit some of the seafood producers that are there. Then we meet someone who is Norwegian, and then we meet someone who has Russian owners. There are very good producers, there are owners who want to invest, but there's a little such an ‘odd’ difference. It is that the Norwegian owners get taxed on the value of their industry, and then they have to pay property taxes on what they own. While the Russian owners, who are on the docks next to them, do not pay this property tax, money that could have been used to invest in the industry. That's why taxes on wealth are important to us. If we had had a little better time – I know that the representative Berg-Hansen is concerned about seafood going out to the markets – we should have taken a trip over the Boat Fjord Mountain along with an old taxi driver who could tell us what the county roads were like before we got into government. It is quite another thing to deliver seafood to the markets now when you can also drive on good highways where we have delivered the money. Since we have also discussed education in this debate: the representative Berg-Hansen and I should have taken us down to the secondary school in Båtsfjord. There was a high school where the municipality of Båtsfjord once managed to think of the 13-year-old school run, so that we were allowed to run high school under municipal authority. In six years we raised the share of boat fjord youth who completed high school, from about 50 pst. for more than 70 pst. It's a school that was taken from us when the red-greens came to power, because it wasn't a good practice to say 'private' or have a municipal high school. Now we've been allowed to start it again, and even the politicians are very excited that it's going to be a good school. That's why when I was rapporteur, I asked the teachers: if we're going to use a few extra dollars to give the kids better education, how are we going to do that? And the teachers said we want fewer students in the class per teacher. We said okay, max. 15 students in the basic subjects. Today, the Labour Party rapporteur has removed large parts of that system, as it turned out that it did not work. It is also felt that it is better to spend the money on continuing training for teachers. These are people who have a long life in the profession, and they are very good at getting new impulses along the way. The continuing training reform is also going home in Båtsfjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3634	One of the most fundamental values in a society is the right to work – this is because it gives an opportunity to participate in society, but also because it gives the individual the opportunity to earn money and not least to live a life of their own. The Nav message, which was adopted in its entirety in November – Nav, which is to be employed, have past efforts and be closer to users, and Nav, which is to be given increased local authority and freedom of action – is the basis for more people to get into work. There is often talk about a door to Nav for the individual, but there must also be a door out. As a result, compulsory activity is so important because it gives young people the opportunity to get started. Nav has to work more closely against business, establish good contacts in order to increase its labour market skills and at the same time increase the number of people working. Business must have a door to Nav. Meetings between the employer and the employee are essential to getting people to work. When the government is clearly giving priority to getting more people to work, it also means that those who are currently out of the labour market are given the opportunity to participate. This applies to young people who fall out of school, as well as to those who are unable to work full-time, but need an organized work situation. Many older workers fall out of the labour market even if they want to work. It's tragic for the individual, but also for our society. We need the skills and not least the long experience of older workers. The government is particularly concerned with combating the crime of working life. For this reason, the government wants to put in place targeted measures to remove unprofessional employers. Tripartite cooperation has been important in facilitating good and safe jobs in Norway. But it will require more. Gender and unprofessional employers challenge our welfare society both in terms of lower tax revenues and in terms of occupational harm. HMS work at individual workplaces can prevent occupational harm. This does not mean that employers are unprofessional. The integration of refugees requires knowledge of Norwegian languages and laws, but also the possibility of getting regular work or education — both of them in general. Some see challenges facing refugees, but there are also opportunities. Several people have valuable skills that we, as a society, are unable to make use of. Norway is a good country to live in for most people. The government's aim is to create more jobs and better well-being, but it will require willingness to change and more commitment to care technology. Today’s business research is the welfare solutions of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3660	One year ago today, the intensive interview with the Paris Agreement was held, and in a week it was one year since it was concluded, namely on 12 December. From the Paris Agreement, the leadership role in the world changed. Until the Paris agreement, this was about being able to negotiate, it was about making new contributions, to which Norway was good at, whether it was a forest effort internationally or a renewable effort internationally. Once adopted, the Paris Agreement is to guide the international implementation of its obligations as quickly as possible. With the budget we are about to adopt, Norway is taking a leading role in the field of climate and the environment. We're doing it especially in the transport sector, where we have ambitions that few other countries do with us. But it's also a budget that's good for most people. It simplifies everyday life, and it makes it easier to make green choices. This applies whether it is the collective effort, which has been significantly strengthened in the major cities, or it is Norwegian railways, where intercity development can now be planned all the way out – or the proposal that now provides for a two-hour base route across the entire long-distance network in Norway, which has been a major success on the Sørlandsbanen. And we're prolonging and strengthening the benefits for electric cars and zero-emission vehicles. With biofuels and the level of ambition for blending up to 20 pst. Not only do we make a good climate policy decision, but it is also about facilitating Norwegian business. We strengthen Enova, we strengthen the environmental technology system and climate change, with efforts towards Norwegian municipalities. But first of all, with this decision, we also provide a good basis for thinking beyond just 2017. It's about putting in place a CO 2 fund to convert into Norwegian heavy transport, it's about a gradual introduction of the CO 2 tax and not least about establishing a much stronger climate law than the government has proposed. With this we are making provision for something that Norwegian climate policy has really lacked, namely a much more systematic work than it has been in the past. Now we're adding leadership that's going to last for years to come. Finally, I would also like to mention the other environmental areas – this is not just about climate. Here's a significant increase whether it's marine litter, or there's support for taking care of the nuclear waste at Kjeller. That's $300 million. kr extra to Norwegian classic nature protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3684	The Environment Directorate should have a very good day today. As with the Riksantikvaren, they should also be satisfied with the increased support for cultural memory protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3687	I believe it is important to be very clear when we hold this debate on the state budget next year, that the parliamentary situation is that the government no longer has a real political majority in the Grand Duchy. A government budget will be adopted, but it will be adopted by a subsidiary vote. Subsidiarity is exactly what it is, that is, with the pen held. It is of course because the Christian People's Party and the Left now believe that it is necessary to make a mark against the government. We have all recorded very clearly that the argument about this has been what is called the political term ‘green change’ and the so-called car package. I hear – without it being said from this pulpit – that of course it is about more things than that. It is, from my political point of view, difficult to understand how the Christian People's Party and the Left are politically able to keep this government going. It's related to the things we're discussing here about the state budget, and it's about the long lines of Norwegian development. It's being discussed, and partly hassled a little bit, with the tax relief to the richest. Yes, if they get what they want, and they do today, they will have moved about 100 billion during this ageing period. kr away from the public sector – 100 billion. kr. And when they do, they go at the same time on these petty cuts to those who have the greatest challenges. It's a matter of understanding that the Right People and the FrP are in favour of this, but that the middle parties are doing it, is very hard to understand. I believe that the Norwegian big thing should not be so petty. We don't need it financially, and neither is it necessary to do it. It doesn't even stand in the way of the philosophy that the right parties have in terms of the line of work, on the contrary: it would strengthen it. But anyway, they do. There is a political morality to which there is every reason to draw all possible attention. And I'm saying it again: I don't understand that the Left and Christian Party of People is up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3696	When we got the government's draft budget in October, I must say I was excited. Maybe now they're coming, the new big stakes in school and education. This year, as last year, it wasn't much new, but fortunately we have a government that doesn't have a majority. Also this time I choose to send a thank you to the higher powers that we have the Christian People's Party, which has managed to turn a small part of the budget in a slightly more correct direction. I am thinking in particular of the funds allocated to several 1-4 teachers. Steps, but it must be frustrating to cooperate with parties where a bet on several teachers each year has to be forced through twelve hours. The truth is, the government parties haven't even given priority to this once on their own. They even argue in this Chamber today against a bet on more teachers. The grant to 600 teachers in high school is removed with a pen stroke. The government parties say it has had no effect. In my home country, Telemark, we lose 35 teachers in high school. 21 of them are in Skien. The Rector of Mæla Secondary School said this to Telemarksavias at the end of November: «Many students have received much extra help thanks to these additional jobs. And it's given better results. In addition, students who are not well-being at school have improved.’ But it unfortunately does little to help what a schoolleader in Skien had to mean, when the Right believes otherwise. The working party will do it differently. We want to keep the 600 teaching positions in high school, we want to increase the transfer to the municipalities, and we want a more offensive effort on early work, with more teachers and better time to follow up the students, because if we're to succeed in helping more students achieve their goals, we have to bet offensively and broadly. In the throne debate, I told a little about the stand in my home state, Telemark. I took up the government's lack of willingness to provide loan guarantees for important investments in the mainland industry, I expressed concern that the government would sell our Community values, and then I talked about the need for increased investment in the Hospital Telemark. In Telemark, there have been two local hospitals in the last three years, and the hospital is in the process of implementing what would be a development plan, but now more like a conversion and cutting plan. And I don't get any less worried when the budget buddies this weekend sent a hundred million dollars cutbacks to the hospitals. The Medical Association and the Nursing Association clearly say that the cut poses a risk to patient safety, and the bill goes to the patients. Once again, the working party will do it differently, with our arrangement, Health South-East would have received almost 770 million. kr more for good patient care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3714	First of all, I just want to say that there's a little bit of a strange theater we're running here. There are a lot of similar articles that we're making here, articles that are asking for discipline in the development of birth control, and it's a little tiring, quite simply, to listen to so many similar posts – just one word to think about. So to the budget we're facing today. Taking one of the big lines, it's exactly the same thing when the government has invested in this budget, which they've invested in earlier budgets. Differences are increasing, there is increasing indebtedness, more trouble getting a place to bow, more poor. That's the fact. There is the fact that no post-actual politician is able to come around. That's what's happening. Another fact: Dropping to Norway increases, and they have increased under the blue-blue. It's a fact. So we've become an environmental sink, and we've become a colder society over the course of these three years. If we go back one time when we might be done with these four years, it'll be four years for the green shift. It will be the years when a built-up welfare state, and then one created big, new differences in Norwegian society. And it's very, very difficult to understand why conservative elements in the Right are involved in this, why the parts of the Progress Party that stand for most people are involved in this. But let go, we know what they actually mean, these parties. But the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left are involved in this is very difficult to understand. I come from a part of the country, North Norway, which really has the potential to become the new initiative region of Norway, which also demonstrated the knowledge acquisition from 2014. Nevertheless, we are seeing today how the model of municipal and county economics is going hard on the northernmost counties. We see how food is strangled, important collective routes are being cut, fisheries policy is putting up a run of strong coastal communities, and defence is being cut. At the same time, North Norway could be the region that could stand for the green shift, but still choose not to do this, rather add up to the absence of green shifts and a colder society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3725	For Hedmark's part, it's a pleasant backdrop for today's debate. All arrows point in the right direction. New jobs and new businesses are created, and optimism is great. But the fall in oil prices is obviously challenging for the country. We lose jobs, with an amazing ability to create value behind each of them. Our level of well-being requires us to find new jobs that can defend our level of well-being. It is clearly easier in the short term to create new jobs in the public sector through tax increases and increased public money use than in the private sector. But it doesn't solve the challenge, rather on the contrary, we're being dragged into it rather further. I think the government is balancing fine and good. Investments in growth-enhancing tax relief, knowledge and transport are good building blocks for a strong growth in Norway in the future. There's reason to give praise to the government. Nothing here in the debate suggests that someone would have dealt with the challenges better. But there are aspects of today's debate that surprise me. ‘Classic nature protection’ seems to have a clean-up effect, but we do need and do in part the opposite. ‘Classic nature protection’ means the old-fashioned total education in which nature is attempted to be hermetised. Internationally, the focus was shifted to the early 1990s and shifted to the concept of sustainability. Nature shall be managed sustainably but not hermetised. And now you've moved on towards the natural cycle and the circular economy. Norway is not going back 30 years in thinking, is it? After all, the bio-fuel strategy is the expression of precisely circular thinking. Nature's own carbon is circulated through a circuit. Photo synthesis is nature's own carbon capture process. It is given to us for free, and forest manure illustrates how effective it is. So 1 tonne of bound CO 2 costs 36 kroner, and the phase-in of electric cars is estimated to cost 600–1100 kroner per tonne. Myr also binds huge amounts of CO 2. We have great sins from past times. There were huge plots of land that were never productive. It is brilliant and good management that they are restored. But ants are also part of District Norway's resource base. We also have to manage it and include it in the circuit. Climate policy is on the verge if there is enough means to hermetize District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3748	Never has a government used as much money as we have now. Never has a government used as much oil money as we have now. Still, you can't avoid unsocial, petty cuts to people who have a hard time. SV has used 7 billion. kr less than the majority of its budget. Even we can afford tax reliefs as monks for people with ordinary incomes less than 800,000 kroner. That's a lot of thousands. We can afford hospitals, and we can afford local economy. In my home country, for example, Hammer's got $34 million. kr more and Kongsvinger 21 mill. kr more with SV's budget. We do that because we believe it is much more important — and it is a value choice for us — to have more teachers, more health professionals and more nurses. We want more in the school health service, we want a low threshold for mentally ill, and we want to help more disadvantaged people get a better daily life and get out of their difficult situation. This is a choice of values we make because we believe this is more important than tax relief for billionaires who have not been able to show how to contribute to new jobs. On the contrary, problems in the labour market appear to be increasing. There's been a discussion about sustainability in the future, and it's important. It's about having a climate policy that makes climate change not speed up, and then we have to change direction in relation to what the government has done. You're a long way from the finish line. Another thing is that it is not the welfare state and benefits to sick and disadvantaged people that threaten the welfare state. There are black economy, social dumping and tax evasion in the billions class – billions placed in tax havens, where they are not contributing to the community. I record that the government has a rather small commitment to this. That's what the big thieves are really threatening us. On the contrary, the government believes that competitive outsourcing and offers for welfare services are a good strategy, and it is precisely some of these companies that are going to put the suction pipe into the community’s box, take out billions and not contribute to the community’s seas. This is totally the opposite, and that is why we are also strengthening the fight against economic crime, against social dumping and against tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3759	Is it permissible to remind the opposition in this Chamber that the free incomes of municipalities are increasing more now than when they themselves governed the country? Either there are speakers from the Central Party or from the Workers' Party standing on this pulpit, there is a black paint without equal of the development both for Municipality-Norway and for District-Norway. You should also think that you were not aware that large parts of District Norway are going down, and that there are many people who are out of work. For example, when North Europe's largest biogas plant is now being built in North-Trøndelag, it is because it has a policy that provides green jobs based on Norwegian raw materials in District Norway. It's not like before, when you had to wind up biofuels in this country. In the last four years, the central party had the municipal minister, the growth in the free income was only in the Turkish municipalities actually of minus 152 million. kr, so the growth was negative on the Senterpartian Guard. The same Turkish municipalities had growth in the years 2013-2015, and then in plus, of 228 million. NOK, so only in the Turkish municipalities you went from a red-green minus crop of 152 million. SEK to a civil plus growth of 228 million. kr. For other parts of the country and for the country as a whole, the picture is similar. In addition, the growth that has been in 2016, which comes in 2017, and that Norwegian municipalities only had their best results in 2015 in 10 years. Therefore, this misdemeanor description for Norwegian municipalities is not a believer. But we continue to strengthen the municipal economy. We continue to strengthen knowledge and early school efforts. We strengthen well-being and care for the elderly. But at the same time, the right-wing government is doing more of what we need in order to be able to finance a well-being local government sector in the future. We invest in knowledge, in the breadth of basic education and in the forefront of research and higher education. We invest in transport and infrastructure, and that's good for business, and that's good for road safety and climate. We invest in conditions to create more jobs, more yes-position, simpler rules, more nutrient research and growth-promoting tax havens. We don't know much about the alternative. There's a lot to call the red-green opposition in this hall, but some alliances for value creation are scarce. We know that we're at risk for tens of billions, maybe up to 30 billion. kr, extra tax, and one should be quite strong in faith to believe that the Norwegian company that is struggling in a tough competition, and what those who are striving to create more Norwegian jobs need, is a billion-dollar tax bill for Norwegian jobs. The choice is that we want a policy that provides more jobs that contribute to the state budget than one that lives on the state budget. Then there is the choice between a Right-led government that will create more, and a working party government that will tax more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3770	This government has cut taxes by about 21 billion. kr, mostly to the richest, tax cuts that do not lead to employment growth, as the government claims, but result in the disparities increasing, and we get less to welfare and community solutions. But what I especially don't understand in the government's eagerness to cut taxes, and which I think is unfortunate, is that there is a special group that the government is still providing tax incentives, namely farmers, those who are going to produce safe and safe food for us in the future. In the past, this government has cut the agricultural deduction, and they propose increased taxes on the sale of farm use within the family, which would have made generational shifts considerably more expensive. This year the proposal for a tax on investment funds under the BU scheme came, a scheme that would have weakened profitability especially in rural agriculture. It is good that the budgetary agreement reverses this by the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left have different priorities. The Government Parties have underlined the good rural profile in their submitted budget. It is difficult for the government to believe in this when more than 200 rapporteurs and rapporteurs from all parties in the Grand Duchy have signed a protest against the government's cuts in property taxes on power plants of 400 million. kr in 2017. That's 400 million. less for health and care services in the nearly 200 municipalities concerned. In fact, the government has found that the market value of power plants in Norway has fallen by 54 billion. SEK – 54 000 million. kr from 2016 to 2017. Everyone has to understand that it's wrong. Short-term changes in power prices, of course, do not alter the market value of the installations themselves, and that is why the widespread protests are now coming. I note with satisfaction that in the budget agreement there is a verbal proposal in which a government assesses the capitalisation rate on power plants. The working party has also asked the government to reconsider this, and 4,5 pst. is high compared with other interest rate developments. The government should have done this, as foreseen in the 2013 state budget. It is not only good district policy, but it is also what the property tax law requires the government to do, and I hope that the government will now clean up from 2017, following the Storting recommendation today for a new assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3781	In today's debate, the opposition has tried to make a number of the government and the cooperation parties working hard, well and long to get to the current budget. The fact that the result as it exists is overlooked in a summary way must be due to the fact that the opposition is likely to be reasonably satisfied with the budget. It seems that the Workers' Party is looking for a crisis. They must kind of sniff after the crisis that is not actually there. The definition of a political situation was given by Olav Oksvik of the Workers' Party once when the Workers' Party had a pure majority. When the journalist asked what was the political situation, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party replied: there is no political situation; there is a purely majority. There is no favourable situation in which to govern. The opinion that has now come to light is real political challenges that have been addressed in the UK, and has thus been on the move towards a good budget. This state budget has clear priorities. The main difference between the opposition, i.e. The working party, and the government parties, is that the Workers' Party will tax more, while the government will create more. Then you make a number of the oil money usage. The use of oil money is no more eye-catching than that to which the Workers' Party joined when the rule of action was decided by Stortinget. The yield from the oil fund was to be used for growth-enhancing tax reliefs, for investment in infrastructure, for research and for teaching. Then you try to make it like it's created almost a new sub-class in society, by reducing the wealth tax from 1.1 pst. to 0,85 pst. It's not like that, it's actually 170,000 fewer who are now paying property taxes than it was under the red-green government. It's going very well, but the effect, primarily, of the relief in the taxes on wealth is that there are actually several companies that are now free to live with the disadvantage of this strange tax. This budget is a budget for building the country, it is a budget for securing the country. This government is taking up defence and preparedness in a completely different way from the red-green government. So we're adding 165 billion. kr on the table for investments in Defence over a 20-year period, and the government has taken on board the organisation of the police, which has proved to be an obstacle to the development of good police services. These are aspects of the budget that the government can be absolutely proud of. In fact, the Workers' Party should also be credited for their participation in the defence part of the State budget, so that the reinforcement of the Defence will start as early as 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3799	Then we've got a budget that delivers on challenges the country faces. The budget provides the basis for increased investment, conversion and growth, and this is absolutely necessary. The last figures from the national accounts show that activity in the Norwegian economy is on the way. The new forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau say that growth will continue to grow. Economic growth has so far been moderate. There are considerable geographical differences, and in the south and west the situation is still demanding. That is why, in the 2017 budget, we are strengthening efforts to support employment and activity in the most exposed areas and the most exposed industries. The budget contains a focused action package of 4 billion. against unemployment in the South and the West and in the industries which are the hardest. This government also has a historical commitment to transport, which is highlighted by business as one of the most important measures to meet the efficiency requirements they meet through everyday life. Asking the business community what is most important, real values through a well-developed infrastructure or a well-filled pension fund abroad, the answer is quite clear: the real value of good trade yields greater than it can obtain through investments in limited liability companies and management abroad. In the draft state budget, they total tax and tax credits up to and including 2017 for about 21 billion. kr. Lower tax rates on general income are particularly important for creating the necessary growth, while the main tool of the opposition is more tax. The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, complains that a Porsche is getting over 100 000 kroner cheaper – a car that apparently belongs to rich people – while she has to deal with the old Saab she has. It just shows that she has not understood the rotation that has now been made over several budgets, that most people can now buy a low-carbon car much more spacious than one traditional Norwegian could have done. Since the days of war, cars have been taxed more than in most countries in the world. We've also had one of the oldest automobile parks in the world, with high emissions for many years. Now there's a change in this, and my call to the representative Bergstø is that she delivers the old Saab and buys a new low or zero emission car. She will be paid well through the wreckage scheme to this government and can contribute to what she and her party are particularly concerned about – lower greenhouse gas emissions. We are investing in transport, innovation, research and education. It will reduce transport costs to business, strengthen innovation and increase population competence. In this way, we can improve the basis for future jobs. It is now more important than ever to give priority to these growth-promoting areas. If we are to succeed in creating new jobs and increasing growth, we must strengthen private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3816	Who has to pay the bill? This is an unpleasant but important question in a day like this, where the government and its supporting parties are trying to draw a picture of the budgetary settlement. The answer is discouraging. Those who have to pay the bill are the unemployed and the sick. High-record unemployment does not seem to be a cause for concern to this government, and the policies they provide make working life more unsafe, through the liberalisation of the law. Large tax cuts to the most wealthy in this country also have no employment effect. These are policies that are well-tested by right-wing forces in many countries and that do not contribute to more jobs but result in greater differences. Our alternative in the Labour Party is an active and targeted industrial policy, a safe working life and a tax policy that stimulates growth and smaller differences. Not only do the unemployed have reason to doubt the budgetary settlement. A severe cut in the hospitals comes at the top of the lack of investment from this government throughout this large-scale period. Who does this go beyond? Yes, hardworking health workers in hospitals, but not least the patients. The Medical Association and the Nursing Association are now out and slaughtering what they call ‘a solid lifting breach’. I am convinced that this is going to hit many of the patients who use hospitals most: chronically ill, patients with complex and complex disease images, elderly, patients with different disabilities, retarded and ill children. It's in some of these areas hospitals are going to cut most, and then it's not the cheese situation that's going to be used, but the ax. The working party's alternative budgets from 2013 to 2017 would amount to more than 3 billion. kr more to the hospitals. This would contribute to a completely different everyday life for patients, relatives and employees. This budget also implies an increase in the economy of many low-paid chronically ill people with high disease costs. The removal of the so-called diagnostic list means that thousands of patients get a nasty Christmas gift from the government and its supporting parties – a Christmas present that means that they get an extra charge of NOK 1990 just over the New Year for the use of necessary physiotherapy. I note that earlier today the chairman of the Financial Committee in the exchange of lines felt that this should be resolved in the Health and Care Committee at Stortinget. It should not be on us in the Labour Party, but we have proposed, like all other parties, except the Right and the Advance Party, to keep the diagnostic list in our alternative budgets, not because today's diagnostic list does not have weaknesses, but because we have to provide good protection systems for those with poor finances, and one has to see this in a larger context. Is it so to understand that the government parties and its two supporting parties intend to do something about this, or is it just empty rhetoric to get away from a difficult matter? Or is it that many of the sickest with low incomes should tighten the life belt extra hard this Christmas to afford to pay physical therapy bills over New Year's?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3830	There is something unhealthy about a policy that aims to increase the differences between people, which helps the unemployed get less and the richest get more, and which cuts in many benefits to those who have the least, by eliminating price adjustments. The government shows efficiency by redeploying, by cutting the unemployment benefit, and by systematically not adjusting social benefits to those who have the least. And this year, the proportions of those who need physical therapy are increased to work in everyday life. Implementation is particularly visible in fiscal policy. We remember the number of thrones and the number of 50 that's over 100 million. Tax bill – it was said to be fantastic. However, managing the highest unemployment rate in many decades testifies to a lack of efficiency, if not high unemployment is a calculated effect. There's something outrageous about such priorities. Today we are dealing with a budget in which negotiations have made a weak health budget even weaker. New actions are funded with efficiency requirements to save almost half a billion dollars. The joy that left has negotiated 10 million. kr to an indoor air ambulance base, disappeared when the containment became known: a new savings requirement means about twice the amount of an air ambulance base that has only been satisfied in the Inland Hospital. There are over 130 000 unemployed in Norway. 72 000 of them are under 30 years of age. In addition, many young people are on social assistance without any activity. If we're going to be able to lift them into more activity, we need activities. With a local economy so under pressure that Kommune-Norge has seen to have to increase the property tax by 36 pst. under the blue-blue government, it is not just sending young people into activity. I heard the representative Stefan Heggelund in his post talking that it was just empty, what happened on the part of the Workers' Party. What's pretty empty is that we have a government that in the balancing proposition now has managed to save 250 million. I have not been able to use the places of action for which money has been allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3840	130 000 unemployed people need more work. We need a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3843	The country is in transition, and knowledge and competence are some of the most central concepts in this process of conversion. In some areas, progress is so rapid that some people may have problems to keep up with. One of the areas where development is fast and where we have to go is in ICT. In other countries, they have already introduced coding in schools, while we have come no further than test schemes with electives for some selected schools. There is a need for substantial investment in this area. While the government’s original budget proposal did not have any new study places, ICT Norway reports that there is a need for 1 000 new study places only in ICT. In the alternative state budget of the Left, we have, among other things: added 100 million. We have spent money to strengthen ICT training, and we have earmarked 1000 courses for ICT. I'm glad that the Left and Christian People's Party has got the government involved in an ICT bet. In the budget agreement, there are now 500 new ICT places of study, 10 million. kr to ICT measures in initial training and a dedicated seed fund for ICT industries of 250 million. kr. It's a good start to a bet, but this is an area where we have to bet in the years to come. I would also like to highlight the offensive effort left has in our alternative budget for higher education and research. We have put in 2 000 new places of study, 300 recruitment positions, strengthening centres for excellent research, and compensation for those universities and colleges that are negative into the new funding model. In addition, we have invested in the students through several student homes and the forgiveness of student loans for teacher students starting a five-year teacher education. In this area, too, we've had part of the government. But there is also a part that remains, not least in committee work, when we are going to write comments this week and give details in this area. Finally, I would like to draw up a little local case, but that has national significance. In Norway today, almost half of Norwegian doctors are trained abroad. Now it is in itself positive that students travel abroad to study, but there are some concerns that a country is so dependent on sending its own medical students and importing doctors in a great way from abroad to meet its own needs. There are also some challenges in training these doctors within the systems and for the jobs they will later have. We know that Stavanger University Hospital has the opportunity to take in more medical students to take the clinical part of the education there. So we know that SUS is going to build a new hospital at Ullandhaug, just at the University of Stavanger. Now I would like to stress that at least at this point in time there is no mention of anything new and own medical faculty at the UiS, but the Left sees that it must be possible to extend medical education on the UiB in a way that allows clinical education to be taken at the SUS. We hope that this is something that other parties can look at as well, even though they haven't added 3 million. to examine it in their alternative state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3856	The government doesn't understand North Norway. It has now become the Workers' Party's new mantra. They seem to have completely forgotten that it was the red-green government that did not understand North Norway when they ruled the country. The state budget for 2017 proves that this government understands North Norway to the highest degree. For while some are busy on the road to Paris, I am more occupied with the road in North Norway. The appropriations for highways in North Norway are more than doubled under this government, and for the first time in a long time the decay of the highways in the north is cut. This may have made the Nordics aware of the body in recent years. Several places you drive are roadwork, and it smells like asphalt. It is also being followed up by another high-recorded transport budget for our long-term country. It's set at 100 million. kr for upgrading the Nordlandsban in the 2017 budget. So it had to be a government council from the Progress Party to give priority to rail in North Norway. With all this and more, it therefore becomes incomprehensible to a northerner like myself that someone can claim that the government does not understand North Norway. On the other hand, we understand that we do not build a part of the country with talk, we build it with decisions, money and power of action. The state budget has the big picture, but also many smaller issues that mean a lot to local communities out there in the districts. It is therefore very gratifying that, after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, funds were set aside in 2017 to complete the work of restoring the wild axis in Wefsna after major sums have been used to combat gyro. Lacquers are to be restored, thereby facilitating activity around the Web.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3865	It may be difficult for anyone involved in the political debate in the media to understand what is most important about this budget. When the government presented its draft budget in October, the main profile was a budget to stimulate more jobs, strengthen the social security network and contribute to a safe everyday life for the population. In agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left there have been some changes, but there is still a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. With the Right in Government, there will be lower taxes and more for education and research. That's good because it contributes to value creation. The right has always been concerned with good business environment because we know that it creates new, profitable jobs that finance well-being. At the same time, we want taxpayers' money to be used to invest in the future, by giving priority to transport, education and research. For the right, investing in a good school is one of the most important things we can do, and therefore, government policy has been very much about strengthening the Norwegian school. The left-hand side talks so much about increased differences, or what they call Difference Norway, but in practice they don't even have the ability to contribute with a policy that reduces the underlying causes of inequalities. There won't be any less disparity between sending a $10 billion tax bill to business at a time when businesses are struggling to maintain their competitiveness. As we entered the government in 2013, we assumed responsibility for lifting the weakest out of poverty from a government that had ambitions to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. The medicine the socialists prescribe does not solve the challenges we face. It is significant that the Oslo School, which is a result of Higher Education policy, is the school in Norway which contributes most to social mobility. In Oslo, we focused on basic skills, competence and quality at all levels, and the Oslo students are also the most successful students in the school. Right will create a society with opportunities for everyone. The country has been given a new course. We make sure that the students learn more at school. It balances social differences, and we give our children equal opportunities to succeed. Never before have so many teachers received continuing training, and in 2017 we will receive a whole new five-year teacher training. We provide more children with access to kindergarten, and we provide lower parental payments to families with low incomes. In order for no students to go to school early, we are strengthening early efforts, and we are doing so to prevent apostasy. We also do several things to increase students' presence and learning at school, including: we have introduced an absence limit in high school. Knowledge is our main tool to create values and secure well-being, so we let knowledge govern the realm and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3882	The process of the state budget has received considerable attention during the last few weeks. The slow negotiation process between government and the support party has led to extreme urgency in the committee and loose proposals in the Chamber today, which is historic. But it's not the first time – it's been common in big things. In our opinion, the Stortinget EU manages its financial supervision. There was also an urgent need for a call to a committee hearing one and a half days after the committee meeting. It was a difficult thing, with sovereignty reproducibility, but was run through with full gas. The long-term defence plan was handled in the same way. It was full speed and haste handling of a difficult matter that was about the security of Norway in the next twenty years. And now the state budget – where one has not dealt with matters in the finance committee. This is not trusting, and that it happens in the third year of his government, can mean that one has been tired and tired of controlling and not having the power to handle matters, putting them forward and getting them through the Storting in a proper way. Earlier in the debate today, Sveinung Rotevatn from the Left was proud that one had received 30 million. to the Directorate for the Environment. But he's not worried about a cut of 500 million. SEK in the hospital sector. I come from Sogn and Fjordane, the same state as Rotevatn, I have to wonder if one sees the consequences such a dramatic cut will have for the hospital sector. Does Sveinung Rotevatn from Nordfjordeid know that this will not happen to his own hospitals in Nordfjordeid and other local hospitals? When we know how centralized this government is, I wouldn't pay a lot of kroner for the local hospital being prioritised and scared away from the savings knife. In Sogn and Fjordane, the centralization goes for full music, with the deflagration of police officers, the closure of the Länsmannskontoret, the centralisation of the renting of the property and the right to change the land, the large cuts in the municipal budget, which force the cancellations and pressure on the good services we have today. There was no prison in Vik, nor should they be sent to the Netherlands. How evil this government is for Sogn and Fjordane, understands one perhaps only when one hears the representative Bjørn Lødemel go to the Stortinget's pulpit and thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for repairing the hopeless budget of his own government. The means of compensation to the county council, broadband, regional development funds are not enough – just a little, but still a little better than the government and its own party, Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3893	Today, the budget will take an important decision on a government budget for next year — a government budget for and for a demanding period of time. The budget creates more jobs. It creates better well-being, and it gives a safer everyday life. The Government and the Cooperation Parties are committed to facilitating increased knowledge for the future, improved infrastructure for the future and tax relief specifically geared towards business and creating and securing jobs. In my years as a politician, I have visited a lot of companies and businessmen. I have not met a single person who calls for increased taxes or points out that increased taxes create new jobs or secure existing jobs – and especially not in such a demanding time as now. The working party, on the other hand, is trying best to camouflage that one of their alternatives and answers is to increase taxes, which does not create jobs. 10,5 B.C.E. It is already in their budget, in addition to large sums and a lack of commitment in their policies and budgets. Security is also about the security of everyday life from crime. This government and this budget facilitate security. We see that the percentage of intelligence under this government is increasing. With next year's budget, which we are dealing with today, we have had 1,600 more police posts. We are on the right track to achieve the goal of two police posts per 1,000 inhabitants. We see that crime goes down. But the threat of terror is real and great, and organized crime is increasing. It is therefore gratifying that a large majority in this process have adopted a near-police reform, which means that we are going to meet that crime challenge and move the police force closer to the population. And I'm surprised that in this debate, too, we from the Central Party have an attempt to talk away from the Central Party's own alternatives to a judicial policy that strengthens the police at a time when crime changes. The word ‘centralisation’ is used to camouflage a total absence of its own alternatives in order to ensure people’s safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3902	In autumn 2013, the Christian People's Party, Left, Siv and Erna Ashkeladd moved into the Prime Minister's dwelling. Similar to Kongsgården. They set out on their way to Kongsgården in 2014, and along the way they heard it crackling. Up from the ground, up from nothing, came the plastic bag charge. They went on, and during 2014 they heard: Work, work, the whole people at work. Halfway, they met 1.5 million strikers who demanded the right to permanent jobs, to full positions and to a living wage. They put it in the bag and went on. In 2015, the Christian People's Party, Left, Siv and Erna Ashkeladd came, and it grumbled in the background, it quarreled, and they found the plane seat fee. They put it in the bag and went on. Then they arrived in 2016, where it was full of records where it said: Cut in Investinor, cut in hospital, 1.8 billion. NOK which was not completely in place. They stuffed the sheaths and put them in the bag and went on. Then they arrived in 2017 with the cuts in the hospitals, the cuts in the Investinor, the tax cuts that had been made on the road, the slightly rough fare for the flight seat, the crackling plastic bag charge. And after the summer of 2017, they picked up 83 major mandates. It turned out that Jonas Gahr Støre had moved into the Prime Minister's dwelling, took the Stortinget and the whole kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3917	The Centre Party will conduct a responsible and decent immigration policy. It shall involve a rapid and sound procedure in which those who do not have the grounds for stay shall be returned and those who are entitled to stay shall be settled as soon as possible in order to enable them to proceed rapidly with the integration process. Unfortunately, it turns out that the government is only concerned with the return, costing what it will cost. I am concerned that the eagerness of the Council of State to reach the targets for return may weaken the legal certainty of asylum seekers. And I'm very disappointed with the lack of focus on integration of the deal. On the contrary, even more of the risk is shifted to the municipalities. The Christian People's Party shall have praise for making a poor budget a little less poor. They include: Secured for 20 million. to improve the professional competence of children in the reception of asylum for lone minors. There is a great need for the type of competence in these receptions, and the Centre Party is pleased with this strengthening. Although I see some good efforts in the budget, I note that important integration measures are down-priority. Among other things, the language training of recipients is not reversed. It is very regrettable that the government does not prioritize this when we know that language is the key to work and fit into Norwegian society. I do not think anyone disagrees that there should be a faster treatment of asylum seekers. Nevertheless, the government's budget is tame when it comes to this. There are about 9 000 in reception, and about half of them are ready to settle. The centre party believes it is unsustainable that so many people who are ready to settle are waiting for reception. It is because the waiting time for the housing interview has become too long. Here the government should be stronger on the ground, especially when we have a government council that expresses her commitment to the rapid integration of those who have been accommodated in order to contribute to society. The instruments must then be strengthened, not weakened. It is difficult to understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left support the government's proposal to finance the award of child protection measures for single minors. It is not in line with the KS recommendations, and in the hearing we were strongly warned that such a scheme would lead to a weakening of the very weakest. The centre party is skeptical about price financing, as we believe it will not cover the real costs associated with this. The centre party wants to use the whole country for integration work. That is why we believe that priority should be given to asylum-seekers in the districts. Dissemination of refugees is also a good integration measure. It is not a good idea to settle refugees in immigration-related areas. In conclusion, I would like to say that the government must take on board that there are a large number of people to be integrated into the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3937	I understand that the Workers' Party is a bit spinning today, especially in the Inland, in Hedmark and Oppland. In the course of eight red-green years, the Labour Party had for many years the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Labour and Administration and a few other government councils. They have also had considerable power for a good many years before that, including. a prime minister from Hedmark, but they have never been able to obtain an air ambulance in the Inland. Now, for the first time, it's inside a state budget. So the power of the Inland is not just in the Workers' Party. Many from the Workers' Party and the Center Party are talking nonsense about hospitals. There's talk as if it's cut – but there's a growth in hospitals of 1.4 billion. kr. That means it's a little bit smaller growth, but it's not cut. The smaller growth has been transferred to public health, prevention and early intervention, which is nearly 1 billion. kr more. It is very important for the Left and Christian People's Party that we refrain from doing so much repair in the health sector. There's an incredible amount we can do to give people a better life, not least give them a good childhood. It lasts for life – unfortunately it also makes a bad childhood. That's why it's incredibly important. Over a week ago, we had a priority debate here in the main hall just about the health sector and the hospital community. The left then proposed that we use 2017 to review the equity participations, the reimbursement arrangements and the deduction schemes. Many of these have survived for a long time. Why in the world do we have two self-interests in sickness? That debate would not be in favour of the Labour Party, and they did not vote in favour of the Left's proposal. So we could use 2017 to discuss this and find a better arrangement for the so-called diagnostic list. Now we have to be honest that it's gone. But on the way there, we can create a self-participation in 2018. We can protect chroniclers and those who are most ill, by giving them a lower ceiling than the 4,200 kroner that those who depend on self-equipment 1 and self-equipment 2, will have to pay next year. Then we can get down to 3,000 kroner. This is a proposal from the Left to the government to investigate when we come to that arrangement in 2018. Then to the Workers' Party, and the Center Party, for that matter: We have 191 bodyguards in Norway. We have 426 municipalities. What number is wrong? We need to focus our efforts on prehospital services: emergency preparedness and medical services in Norway. This is too poorly organized. The resource is too bad. We have to put an effort here. This is not a matter of intervention when the Workers' Party is running on. It's cut in the hospital sector. We need to put in the effort early and organise Norway better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3950	This time, too, the government parties and the cooperation parties agreed on little thoughtful cutbacks in the budget conciliation. Two years ago, we received the proposal for a bag tax. It was never introduced. Last year the air passenger fee came, and several hundred jobs on Rygge were lost. So this year it's the hospital's turn. Here you go! 427 million. kr less is the Christmas present to the country's hospital, with the best wishes for Christmas and the next year! Greetings Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. These cuts are so large that it is likely to result in a reduction in patient treatment. I therefore understand that the previous speaker, Ketil Kjenseth from the Left, has a certain need to expound the cut. We know that hospitals are facing major economic challenges: the population is getting older, and the disease situation is changing. This is precious. In addition, hospitals shall offer and pay for new and expensive medicines. The Labour Party believes that the proposed budget puts hospitals in a very difficult situation. The board of directors of Morten Wold, a member of the Health Committee, correctly states that this means that employees must run faster and work faster. The Medical Association and the Nursing Association are raging. Despite a record high level of oil money consumption and a sharp increase in profits from state companies, the Right and Government are not able to keep their clear promise to the country's hospitals and patients. When Health Mid-Norway is going to make a budget for the next year, St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim and the others in the company has $61 million. kr less to walk with. Psychiatry has never been away. How the Right Representatives of the South Tribe Team can defend this, I don't understand. I thought we had a cross-political agreement to build St. Olav's Hospital up, not down. I repeat, it means something who controls this country. South-Tronde Teams don't need big tax cuts to them most of the time. They need a government that prioritises St. Olav's Hospital and Middle Norse patients. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, Health Mid-Norway would have received 204 million. kr more. Instead, the government has allowed the oil money to flow out like notes in their pocket for them with the most from before. Today, the country receives a budget that no one really wants. Now more than before, Norway needs a new majority, and the South-Trøndelag needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3965	After following this debate during today's day, there are many things that can be tempting to tackle, among other things. the claim made by the previous speaker concerning hospital cuts. If you read the budget, you'll see that it's still 1.5 billion. extra for hospitals. How the Workers' Party can get it cut, I just don't understand. The Labour Party also talks about the oil money running out, but if you read the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, this proposal has about 1.5 pst. use of oil money higher than the working party's alternative budget. So I guess the money's going to run out there too. What I was going to say about was the claim that has come from a number of Labour Party representatives during this debate, that the four cooperation parties have not been able to give priority to anything in the budget, either bets or deposits. That's a statement that, of course, is completely crazy. We prioritise precisely the areas that we said we should give priority to before the elections, and we have, of course, coverage for everything. We focus heavily on school and education. Three times as many teachers now receive continuing training as before the election, there will be a new teacher training, we will strengthen the real subjects, and we will put an early effort into it. We focus heavily on health, especially in the area of drugs and psychiatry, which provides more freedom of choice, higher quality and shorter waiting time for patients. We have given priority to lowering the tax burden, both for industry and for employees. One might wonder what the situation for business would have been like if they had had to deal with both an oil spill and a tax return from the Workers' Party. We are making a strong effort on the road and rail, with an increase of well over 50 pst. since the election. We build smarter, faster and cheaper with new methods. The implications for the last efforts of the budget unit, including: for climate and child safety, it has been found without using a single additional oil crown – because priority is given to it. We focus on the things that equip us for the future, that give us competitiveness, and that will also give us a good welfare society on the day the oil adventure enters its last chapters. It's not to lubricate thinly – it's to sharpen the resources against what we're going to live on in the future. I think it's kind of festive that this criticism comes so strongly from the Workers' Party, who sat and rushed for eight years without a lot of people remembering what was that government's main bets. Perhaps that's why the representative Solhjell wrote in his book ‘Solidarity Again’, when he was the Council of State in the Red-Green Government in 2012, that the biggest problem for that government was that they had no decent bets besides kindergarten, because they were not willing to give priority. When I see the Workers' Party's alternative budget now, it may seem that the priority refusal has not disappeared. They're sending a tax bill over 30 billion. to Norwegian families and businesses and forcing them to give a high priority to their budgets, because the Workers' Party is unable to give priority to its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e3988	Cultural and spiritual life is fundamental to human life, and it is an important public task to use cultural policy instruments to ensure the growth and development of Norwegian cultural life. The country has a major and important responsibility to contribute to both quantitative and qualitative growth in cultural life. The Christian People's Party values the self-esteem of art and culture as a basis for politics. We want a cultural life that gives new impetus and stimulates creativity and innovation, and believe that public cultural action should contribute to a diversity of offers. The Christian People's Party will pursue a cultural policy that strengthens our cultural roots, while stimulating new cultural impulses. And cultural policy must help to strengthen both professional and voluntary cultural life. Not long ago there was a report that said something about the artists' living conditions and that showed very clearly that living by the art in Norway is very difficult for many in different cultural areas. This meant that we got a reinforcement of the artist tips. The Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and the Left, was able to strengthen the artists' points by 8 million. kr for 2016. This was to be a three-year escalation plan, so you got up to a level that made the artists part of the artist's income, so it was possible to live by the art. It was therefore disappointing that the government did not let anything in to continue the escalation plan. But I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has had a breakthrough in the agreement with the Left and the government parties to strengthen the artist's tips by another 8 million. kr. That is absolutely necessary, and I expect us to complete that escalation plan for the 2018 budget as well. Because then we're where we should be when it comes to the artist tips. Another important action is the Actor and Dance Alliance – a three-year project that started in 2012. In 2016, it has changed to ordinary operations and has currently employed 32 dancers and actors. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed to strengthen the actor and dancer alliance by 8 million. kr. In the budget agreement, we have managed to strengthen it by 6 million. kr. I know that these are loving means that allow even more people to be employed. This is an alliance that creates predictability for actors and dancers in terms of income, even in times when you don't have production or activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4003	There was no special effort for Eastfold when the government presented its proposal for a government budget. Thankfully, after the conciliation, something has become better, thanks to the Christian People's Party. I would like to highlight in particular the follow-up to the National Railway Transport Plan. In its proposal, the government had provided funds for the follow-up to our joint decision to extend the Eastfold Railway through Moss. That's good. But the government at the same time stresses that the Mosse tunnel is now assumed to open in 2024, that's not good. In the past, the time of opening has been both 2022 and 2023. It is very worrying that the opening of this part of the Eastfold Railway through Moss is constantly being postponed. It is important both for commuters, for Moss City and for the simultaneous planning and development of RV. 19 through the city, as promised by the Council of State. Progress must be kept. We can't stand any more postponements now. Neither do we in terms of the progress of the rest of the intercity triangle between Oslo and Halden. Because it turned out that the government had not made sufficient plans to continue planning from Moss and further towards Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg within the agreed deadline. The progress in the expansion of the intercity triangle to Halden by 2030 was thus at risk. It is amazing by a government that in the debate on the National Transport Plan in 2013, the Stoltenberg government felt far too pupils, and even thought they could have the double track to Halden finished in 2023 or 2026. The Workers' Party has committed sufficient resources to continue the planning of the intercity triangle as adopted in our alternative state budget. I am pleased that through it we have inspired the budgetary negotiations, so that the conciliation has done the same and progress can be kept. We are many who are impatient after finally completing the construction of double tracks on the entire Eastfold track. However, if the government budget had been used, the expansion of intercity could have stopped after this period. We are also many on both sides of the border who are impatient after a further expansion of the double-track railway on the whole route and across the border of Sweden towards Gothenburg. It requires a stronger effort from the government than we have seen so far. Despite promises from the Minister of Transport at the beginning of the government period of a common plan for such development with Sweden, nothing has happened. It's still in the blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4018	The representative Ketil Kjenseth is saying that we in the Labour Party in the Inland are spinning because there are now going to be design funds for helicopter base at Mjøsbrua. No, we're happy, and I've given Kjeseth honor earlier today. But at the same time we're worried, because an air ambulance base should not only be designed, it should also be operated, and then it's very stupid that one, at the same time as one grants project funds, cuts the operating budget by twice as much, that is, by about 20 million. kr. We think that is worrying. So if you don't have plans to finish your work here at Stortinget till the fall, one has to remember that there's going to be a bill on the day this is going to run, and then it would have been fun not to start with cutting from here today. At the same time, it's debatable: it's not going to be less money, it's just less growth, it's going to be 427 million. kr to hospitals on a national basis disappears after the budget conciliation this weekend. I want to say it so that the left really masters the politician's language: it just becomes less growth. It is part of the story that from before this was a weak hospital budget. After the cutting that is now done, a good piece is just covering the demography – it actually costs to give more people who would need a hospital offer, a hospital treatment, good help. So it's pretty serious, and it's not weird that it reacts to the floor outside in our hospital. It's just an efficiency measure, so the marshy is clearly clear: it's about running faster and maybe also going to operate faster. This I think will soon be at the limit of the irresponsible. I thought Kjeseth had a good knowledge of how tough it is, and of all the cuts that the Hospital Inland is facing. The Inland Hospital is not in any special position in that way. There is no one today who will come out of the closet and take – I kept saying – the credit for the idea of this cut. There must be a reason for that. It is certainly because no one is particularly proud of it, but still there are opportunities in this debate to profile themselves in this way. We from the Workers' Party – as opposed to the Minister of Health – deliver what we have promised. We're delivering $12. DKK in four years – the Minister for Health is about 3.5 billion. kr away. So we're actually also a little worried about the Minister of Health, who's probably also having a hard time – with their problems of recovering when you've been to the degrees high and dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4031	It has been interesting to follow today’s debate — and especially the largest opposition party. It's not always as easy to know where the criticism comes from, but one thing is certain: it's coming. During the debate and this fall session, we have experienced that the Workers' Party criticises us for not building enough student homes, even though we build two and a half times more than the red-green ones. The Labour Party criticises us not to deliver enough toll cuts, but they vote against it when it is proposed in this Chamber. The working party has criticised sales, but forgets that they themselves sell out and down when they have power. The working party criticises the falling employment share while there is a low oil price, although the employment share fell more during the period 2008–2013, when the oil price was high. The Labour Party criticises that ordinary people do not receive enough tax relief, even though ordinary people experienced increased taxes in the period 2005–2013, while they now receive reduced taxes every year. The Labour Party criticised the health agency’s bureaucracy in 2014, but criticises us when we now propose red tape. The working party criticises the use of oil money, but when it shows up, SEK 1.8 billion. extra, they do not use them to reduce the use of oil money, they use them on several public measures. In fact, the alternative budget proposals show very small differences in the use of oil money. The big difference between us and the Workers' Party is that they are proposing large tax increases for Norwegian company owners so that they can put it in the oil fund and speculate in foreign shares. It's a misguided policy. It does not contribute to conversion, and it does not strengthen our ability to create new jobs in the private sector. If we go back a few years in time, it's a fact that oil money has doubled, from 69.8 billion. SEK in 2005 to SEK 136 billion. kr in 2013. But what did we get for increased oil money use in this period? Well, we got increased cows for housing, we got increased cows for health, we got increased maintenance wheels on the road, railway and municipal construction. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, an overall financial committee agreed that the increased use of oil money should go to areas that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, tax relief, transport and knowledge. This government is taking this seriously. We now see reduced health cows, reduced cleaning cows and reduced maintenance losses on both roads, railways and municipal buildings as a result of the Progress Party in government. But we can certainly conclude that everything has not improved with this government – in the last period the opposition was much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4044	In this debate, the Right and Advance Party have repeated and repeated that the 2017 budget is a budget for a strong policy on jobs and climate. The need for conversion became acute after they took over, they say. Well, the financial crisis was not planned under us either. Then they want us to believe that the government has acted resolutely, that the unemployment has therefore reached the peak, and that we are now seeing a slight increase in employment. It's quite amazing to listen to when we just got new numbers that show the opposite – that the time off gets stuck at the highest level in several decades. The government has doubts that unsocial tax cuts are what create change and new jobs, while the truth is that almost no jobs are created at all, and that two out of three are in public. We created ten times as many, and two out of three were in the private. The government has doubts about so-called business neutrality instead of targeted investment for the individual industry, even if the business community itself says the opposite. ‘Regulation, requirements and incentives must be achieved; we do not achieve the objectives of business neutrality.’ Idar Kreutzer, a member of the government's own expert committee, recently said this at the Zero Conference. So far, 25 billion has been used. kr for tax cuts ineffective. Think of the huge conversion and development package 25 billion. kr this year could be for Norwegian business! Imagine how many jobs we could get for the enormous amount of money! ‘The business community in Buskerud is already far ahead of finding solutions for a green future.’ These are not my words, but belong to the Regional Director of the NHO, Per Steinar Jensen. Here are some examples: The Viking Forest sets on biofuels in the Treklingen on Ringerijke. It's work, it's climate. Splitcon in Modum operates with further processing of structural glues. They need capital. The working party's Now, over three years later, a message came that the forest industry itself says there is no direction. State forest is an important player in the development of green industries in Buskerud, but government will sell. They will also sell in Kongsberg Group. The government said no to the Kongsberg environment as the Global Centre of Expertise because the cluster is beyond industry. I guess it must be the time bomb. The working party will have a top industrial centre in place, such as the The Kongsberg environment has taken initiatives. The government will wait. In Buskerud, the Workers' Party uses regional development funds for industrial development in the districts, for example: Travel life in Hallingdal. The government cuts into this money. They will remove the tax office in Hallingdal, despite the increase in the number of visits, just from the travel life. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not understand business development and job creation. That's why it's so bad to point out, even in Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4065	I've been thinking about something that concerns new funding system in the university and higher education sectors, because there was a principle decision last year, where there was a majority in the Stortinge to make some changes to the incentive system. The concreteization of it came now, with this budget, and then it turned out to be something you might call a surprising way. At least there's been a pretty big discussion between the former, old universities, the new universities and colleges, where they feel so-called new universities and colleges they're getting worse. That discussion has been going on for a while, even before this became a theme. We want to postpone the treatment of this and will not add any money to it. We'll see the consequences of this in the longer term, because it's going to lead the distribution of money for years to come. The left has raised $89 million. kr into its alternative budget to compensate those who suffer losses. The Christian People's Party has found an amount of $69 million. kr, but it's $89 million. which covers all losses, if you count according to what is in the State budget. But what is going on in this budget agreement? Yeah, it's 35 million. DKK to public universities and higher education institutions and 9 million. kr to the private. It's $44 million. And we're going to need $45 million. kr. Who's going to get this $44 million? kr, and how are they going to get them? What are the premises that you've been thinking about? I had very much appreciated if someone could explain the background to this, so that you could get an insight into how you thought about the negotiations. Then it's nice that the Council of State sits in the hall. Otherwise, there are several other items on which there are additions and changes, and then I want to focus on a matter that is about granting 139 million. kr to teachers who take the master's degree and are now to be rewarded, so that they do not pay for the last year. I've been 17 years at Stortinget in different roles, and I think it's the first time I've experienced that someone says no thanks to it. The students don't want them. I think it is a pretty big amount to decide to vote through when NTB can report that the NSO, the Norwegian student organisation, does not want the money and believes it is the wrong use of resources. In addition, as far as I am aware, the students of pedagogics are also critical of it. It would have been very nice if someone could explain the two conditions in the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4076	First I just have to say that when I hear the representative Roy Steffensen sum up the budget criticism, I realize that he has not understood the criticism. Then to the budget itself. I don't know how many people here had time to see the Day Review, but we've kind of heard it in here in the hall, all of them -- this is a budget that nobody really enjoys. The Christian People's Party has made it quite clear that they would prefer to vote in favour of their own proposal. The left has made it quite clear that they would prefer to vote in favour of their own proposal. Erna Solberg said in Political Quarter today early that if she had thought that this compromise was the best, she had initially presented it. So she is not satisfied with this proposal either. We no longer hear these words that a good budget has become even better. There are not four parties that agree on a common policy. We should all wish that there was something else we agreed here today. And maybe that's not so weird, because here there's no powerful bet to bring down the vacancy. Hans Andreas Limi tried in a wrong way to arrest Torstein Tvedt Solberg earlier this evening when he said that the government cuts in the package of measures that the conciliators got into, so it is 1 billion. NOK less now than it was before. It cannot be said that the initial budget has been continued when it is actually a cut. That's probably also why, when you try such quick turns as that, over half of the people in the Western states say that they think the government is doing a bad or very bad job fighting unemployment. This is a budget that continues in the unsolidaristic direction in which this government began to take us, in 2014. It's a government that prioritizes spending the big money on tax cuts. It is a government that has tried at every crossroads to get in the budgets with trixing, mixing, bag fees and flight fees. When I say this is a budget that maybe no one really is satisfied with, well those that are absolutely least satisfied with this budget tonight, the hospitals, that have to take a big cut. We are now seeing the Medical Association and the Nursing Association say clearly that this will affect patient treatment. We should have debated this more, this should have been properly investigated. Instead, it comes right above the table now to resolve a budget flake between four batches that have shown throughout the harvest that they are unable to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4096	Tonight, the four civil cooperation parties adopt the fourth common budget during this period. It has come as a direct result of the electorate’s rejection of four new years by a red-green majority in 2013 and instead of putting together a magnificence with a historically strong bourgeois majority. During the four-year period that is now approaching the end, these four batches have, among other things, triple the number of teachers offered each year of continuing training. They have reduced health cows by 80,000 and reduced waiting times. They have introduced free treatment options for patients, and the first to take part in this benefit were those who are struggling with addiction and mental disorders. It's been a historic boost to the road and the track. So it's a long list that we can be satisfied with. It's a lot to be proud of. The election next year is not just about the results of the civil majority. There's a choice between options. During this ageing period, there have been two major challenges that could not be foreseen in 2013. One was that the oil price fell dramatically, leading to increased unemployment in the South and West. The second was a refugee crisis that emerged in 2015. With the kind of demanding challenges, it is very important to have governance and to take responsibility. The red-green opposition sections have spread to all sides of these challenges. SV broke the tax settlement – without it, business had had major, unforeseeable challenges – and both the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens broke the refugee settlement, a very important settlement to have a predictable policy for a demanding time. All it seems is that the red-green opposition agrees on is increasing the tax burden on those who create jobs every day. It is worth reminding the opposition that money given in tax bills is not money that goes away. They're left in the companies that are in a tough transition right now. The question is: are we using them best from this room, or should something more remain in the company – to hire more or safer jobs they already have? Or for that matter – that families are left with a little more? The representative, Hadia Tajik, who is also vice-leader of the Workers' Party, asked the Minister of Finance what she thought about a family of children ‘only’ having received SEK 15 200 less in taxes per year. What world do you live in in the Workers’ Party if you think that $1,200 is “only”? It means a safer everyday life. It means more elbow space every month. That means the ability to save or have a small buffer in everyday life. We, the bourgeois parties, can sometimes discuss the level and speed in the same direction. The red-green parties are completely in disagreement about which way they will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4111	The government has invested in what we said we should bet on. We've been focusing on knowledge, not just one year, but consistently and systematically. We've been focusing on growth in the economy. Everyone's probably been visiting businesses around the country, and I haven't heard a single company saying that what needs to be done now to get us through this tough period is tax increases. We have invested in transportation, both because it provides safer roads and because it provides better opportunities for export companies. We have focused on public sector reform. It should not be believed that the government – and the cooperation parties – had done so when you heard the debate here. It struck me that I have heard Mr. Kolberg's comments before, and I think I have, because I think the representative of Kolberg has said exactly the same every year with the cooperation parties of the power. He has cried 'wolf' so many times that he must gradually begin to be hoarse. It's not new that social democracy knows best, but that Martin Kolberg also knows better than the cooperation parties how cooperation is, it might have been new. It's also a little bit difficult to understand some of the reasoning. Of course, I understand that Norwegian hospitals would like to have more money, but that 1.5 billion. kr in increment is a cut, difficult to understand. And if you turn it around, you can ask the Workers' Party the question of how they will answer for what's cut in their budgets, compared to what the Cooperation Parties are now adopting. How will they go around in Norwegian municipalities and tell us that, compared with the majority that now decides, there will be cuts in teacher positions for the 1st to 4th grade with the Labour Party budget? How will they go around the country and explain that, compared with what the cooperation parties are now adopting, the budget of the Workers' Party is cut off from kindergarten teachers? How are they going to go around talking about the green shift when you know that with the Labour Party budget, in comparison with the cooperative parties, it's going to cut down on important climate measures and probably higher emissions? No one will claim that the harvest has been a political adventure for the cooperation parties, even based on the relatively modest standard of adventure that came here earlier today. It is so absolutely not. But I still think it's worth holding on to one thing, and it's that although openness isn't always beautiful, it's not that power struggles or political discussions are new. Ask any SV, ask any center party, what it was like to sit in government with the Labour Party in the first period. I think they have stories to tell about discussions that have been perhaps at least as violent as their bourgeois side has now. Finally, as a representative said, there may be something ‘unorthodox’ about the policy of providing tax relief to Norwegian owners, but at least there is something very Norwegian about these owners, compared to the non-residents who do not pay a red ear in taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4127	Through the President, I say that now the Council of State will hear something new, unfortunately. And the reason why I say ‘sorry’ is that I believe that at this point he and I will be quite united – and that is with reference to the representative Tybring-I was at my discretion remarkable and very alarming post. The council was not here then, but I can repeat what the representative said: in very clear, touching form, he characterized the debate on the green shift as something that only concerned our tippole children – it was completely unnecessary to run with it now, of course. Then he underlined the importance of the nation state, and he was very busy with the coalition partners. It did Tybring-Ged here an hour ago. Those positions and that form are very recognizable. This is what the right-wing populists do in Norway and in Europe. They talk like that. Per Sandberg wakes up in the water basket. So now it's true, actually, and here I think the Red Isaac and I agree. For all of us other people may disagree about much, but we have respect for the climate challenges, and we have respect for our international agreements and our obligations. We have disagreements, but we have concerns about the use of money in society. This applies to both the Labour Party and the Right, but not to representatives of the Advance Party when they are allowed to act in free dressage. This is not my problem, but it is the Right problem, which has brought them into government. It is very strange about the political logic of these Frps, because capitalism is their weaponry and political alternation; it requires competition, the market and internationalization. But then it is that they will also talk about nationalism, as Tybring-Gjedde did. It is not the international agreements that create the problems; it is the national policy that creates the problems. Had not social democracy been the dominant force in post-war history in Norway, and the policy of the Progress Party had been allowed to dominate, we would have really had the problems that Tybring-Gjedde was trying to push on the international agreements. We have to stop this, and here I think the Red Isaac and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4141	As we approach the end of the last debate on the last budget of this big period, I think it is politically interesting because the political differences in Norway are clearer than in the long term. I'm aware that the Right has as a strategy to try to give the impression that the differences are not so big, but I think the voters actually now see that it's not the same who we put in charge. Right-wing rhetoric was now given an example by the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, when he skillfully referred to the compromise with the central parties and did not defend the government's budget. It is as after the recipe from Reinfeldt in Sweden, well described that Aron Etzler in the book Reinfeldt effecten – just after the recipe. We recognize the rhetoric from many right parties in Europe. We also recognise the results of those who are trying to achieve a more liberal economic policy. The results are again available in all countries that have tried it: increased unemployment, more out of work and more insecure in the workplace. This time, the Ministry of Finance also says that the constant increase in oil money consumption that has now occurred every year during this government, both by budget and revised budget, cannot continue. Actually, the Ministry of Finance says that the Minister of Finance cannot continue. This is interesting political because it gets some of the distinction that has been going deep through the Right all along, I would say good Right-people, conservatives, industrialists and traditionals, and they are now in the fight with the Liberals. Now the Liberals have got a liberal party into government. I think the developments on the right in Europe are very well described in Christian Borch's good book, Banality's tyranny, where he describes it. In the past, the conservatives in the Right were supported by the centre parties, and the liberals were kept in check. They now sit with a liberalist party, who has declared at their national meeting that they will attack the Norwegian model – something completely new in Norwegian policy. In less than a year we have a choice. The next time the budget is to be discussed in the Grand Duchy, I hope that the Prime Minister is Jonas Gahr Støre, that we again have a government that has the ambition to have Europe's lowest unemployment and Europe's most powerful measures against unemployment, that we put welfare and community first, and that we fight for less differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4159	The budget of the Labour Party is taking the future seriously. The policies of the future will address increasing inequalities globally and nationally and climate and technology challenges, and policies must provide people with security in and for work. The Labour Party’s policy creates values through targeted action packages, through conversion and green shifts – a fair and redistributive policy. The Workers' Party is ringing around Community solutions in terms of well-being and education. Today, we are dealing with a budget that goes in the opposite direction – with these results: record in oil money use, unemployment, tax cuts, tolls, commercialisation of welfare services and increased disparities, more on social security and less equal opportunities. Taking Norway in this direction is the Workers' Party's welcome. Last time the Workers' Party gave strength to get people to work, we created more than 350,000 jobs – mainly in the private sector. I have heard in this room for three years now about this time: Action packages will get more people to work, and the dynamic effects of tax policy will get more people to work, but there are results that count. Our public hospitals are under intense pressure. Right-wing lifting break, I just want to remind the Council of State, the Red Isak about it, has a number: 3 billion. ed less for patient treatment. This is not new, but old politics. It's the results that count, say Right-wing representatives from this pulpit. The Workers' Party has fulfilled its promise of 12 billion. DKK for hospitals over four years. In the South Hospital, government policy results from the following: uncertainty about future financing of necessary construction, equipment and operations. The appropriations do not go to. And it is so serious that it is proposed to remove the annual Christmas plate for employees this year, the NRK Southland can tell: ‘The hospital is struggling with the economy, and this year, Director Jan Roger Olsen has decided that the traditional Christmas festivities will not be carried out because of the tight economy.’ So planned developments have to be reversed and postponed. And the Minister of Health is pointing down: the management is giving priority to mistakes, not the minister. It's serious. It creates uncertainty and unforeseeability for employees. Trustees express concern – and I share it – that good specialists will move to commercial actors if the arming out persists. Differences are growing, and using – not bag and not fly this time – hospitals as balancing items to maintain tax cuts strengthens inequalities in health as well. That is what this future budget is all about — subsidising correctly, but still.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4180	If there is one thing test-proof Right-wing people should tolerate, it is to be measured on the results of their policies and not the celebrations. The results are discouraging. Classic nature protection has lost under red-green government, said Erna Solberg while she was still in opposition, but the result three and a half years later when she has been in position, is attempts to cut forest protection in two out of four budgets despite Nikolai Astrup promising to increase the investment in forest protection more than the red-green government had put up to. So we're going to be hundreds of millions of dollars according to the Swedish Forest Protection Plan of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Forest Protection Plan. There are no new national parks, there are oil extractions in vulnerable areas on the edge of the ice – contrary to the cooperation agreement, even – and there are added to hydroelectric development in sheltered watercourses. It's not better on the climate side. No proposals have been made that significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions, from the government. Everything that has come has been pushed through from the cooperation parties or from the opposition's proposals. CO 2 capture and storage has been trained and the financing of investment decisions has not been clarified and pushed to the next period. They have abolished support for new renewable energy, we see a free-for-all motorwaybonanza, there is no cut in subsidies in the oil sector, even though ministers from the government travel around the world asking everyone else to cut their oil subsidies, there has never been such little environmental impact when granting oil licences, and there are record oil licences that have been granted. There is no willingness to use regulations and charges to implement a green shift, and the conclusion to this is in other words: emissions are rising – they were promised to go down. And I have a message for the left on the tap. The left has kept its voters off the hook, not by not fighting for the environment — preserved, left has done so — but by continuing to pretend that the results of the policy are good. Greenhouse gas emissions should decrease 1 million tonnes per year from the takeover of the government in order to achieve the 2020 targets. Now they've gone up. Ola Elvestuen has kept his words when he said that the government's policy is a shift in climate policy. Yes, it is true, just that the change in rate has led to emissions. All of these are facts. And as long as the Left considers it more important to keep the climate denials of the Progress Party in government than to cut greenhouse gas emissions, the Left has played its part in Norwegian policy. I hope people punish them for that at the election next fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4194	This government aimed at reducing the number of bureaucrats. The government has failed in total. The challenge of modernising the public sector is that wages are often linked to management responsibilities. Thus, there are too many incentives to increase the number of managers and not the number of people who work in the first line, who do the job. If you stop meeting people, but manage others at work, it gives you more pay and career. Therefore, the modernisation of the public sector requires something quite different from late budget lines where there are some cuts here and some cuts there. The defense is a very good example of that. Throughout the 1990s, the Storting had ambitions about a precious structure, but every harvest it was cut to the Defense. There wasn't any money. Everyone had to save a little bit more every year, but the structure was the same. The result was a worse defense. The cheese needs principle failed completely, it failed, and now this model from the 1990s, with cheese needs a little everywhere, is used as a model for improving the efficiency of hospitals and universities. It's unwise, it doesn't give us any results. Instead, the government should be tough, like in the field of defence, and take out some elements. Of course, it creates protests, but it produces results. As Minister of Culture, I was involved in major improvements in library efficiency, music exports and the Culture Council. Many people were sitting in different offices and giving money to the same things. I got a lot of mouth, also from the Right, but it was absolutely necessary. We didn't need two government agencies to advise the libraries. This is how to drive the modernisation of the public sector, dry down structural intervention and not constantly set up new directorates and cut a little everywhere to finance it. That's exactly what's the problem with Red Isaac's posts here today, that he manufactures the chaos that has been, as a sign of openness. I believe that this chaos that has occurred is the result of a poor understanding of the efficiency of the public sector. It's not going to be good results, the cuts are going to be a little bit everywhere, but it's going to be the hardest for those who work in hospitals and at the universities where the cuts are going to be carried out. Today, the Stortinge adopts a budget no one is proud of. Those who want a different course have been given more and more arguments for a shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4203	I take the floor to say a few words about the education budget. I noticed that the knowledge minister skillfully failed to comment on the so-called efficiency cut that he had been thrown into by the settlement partners, but that therefore means a significant reduction in the appropriations for the university and higher education sectors. In the absence of an opinion from the Council of State on what it will mean, we have received it from the Research Association today, which says that the cuts will affect the quality of research and education. So in addition to the hospital code, here we have another cut in the deal that is going to hit students in this case, as the hospital code will hit patients. SV has submitted a training budget which includes, inter alia: more teachers and a more varied school day as main bets. We want a far greater commitment to early school effort than the government parties have put forward, both by earmarking the appropriations for early work that the citizens do not earmark, and by stepping up the number of teachers from 1 to 4. steps. We believe that this is necessary, and believe that the experience of the allocations to now – now that the Christian People's Party has earned through donations to more teachers – shows the need for a national rule that can ensure enough teachers and small groups in the early years of school. We also believe that removing the 600 high school teachers who have been an additional resource in schools in areas with special social challenges over the last four years is a major mistake. I notice that the SSB report that came last week is being misused by both the Right and the Left in this debate to state bombastically that this attempt has not had an effect. The researchers themselves are very clear on taking many reservations, as I think the government parties and the left had also been well served. This is not a report that can be used to conclude on the effects of that experiment. I would also remind the citizens that the reason why we have a thin basis to conclude is that the government itself cancelled a full evaluation of this attempt. Then you should be very careful to misuse an interim report from the SSB. On the contrary, we believe that the schools that have been involved in this experiment are right when so many of them say that it has been an important resource. We believe the teachers around the country are right when they say that more teachers, smaller groups and more time for each student is the way to go for Norwegian school. And we think a more practical and varied school day, a full-time school of active learning, is the most important way to both more learning, social cohesion and better public health in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4216	After some choices that have been made recently, many have claimed that protest choices are due to a distrust between those who are governed and those who rule. Maybe there's something in there. Anyway, I don't think we can say that we're there in Norway. But we're going to be careful, and we have to be constantly concerned that what we're doing inside this room, and that what we're doing for the day, is the same thing as the people out there are busy talking about. Did the year's budgetary procedure really revolve around the issues that matter to people out there, in everyday life? Are we talking here about what really matters to people out there? Do they realize what's being talked about in this room? And do they understand what is being discussed in the budget negotiations? I have heard several speakers today talk about the UH sector. I understand that means the university and higher education sectors. Can't we say universities and colleges, if that's what we're talking about? I heard the Prime Minister speaking today about the ABE reform. I had never heard of any ABE reform. I remember that ABE was a way we classified fire extinguishers earlier. I assume that this was not what the Prime Minister talked about, although I understand that some fire extinguishers of good quality were needed. No, it stands for the sounding ‘red tape and efficiency reform’. So we make twisted words and concepts that we have to make abbreviations that no one understands when we talk about it. Can't we call it cut? That's what it is. Flat cut is it, cheese ratio is it – there is no red tape and efficiency reform. That concept sounds just as good as the new railway infrastructure undertaking Bane NOR SF. [[Laughter]] We're using the money wrong. We're building big administrative units. This government has created, or is in the process of establishing, the Directorate of e-Health, the Directorate of Railways, the Election Directorate and perhaps even more – it was the ones I came up with on the move. Even more people in directorates, supervision and administrative units – we spend the money wrong. Instead, we should spend money on hiring health workers, assistants at the SFO, teachers, conductors and teachers, because it's those who do the job in everyday life, and it's those who produce the services that matter to people, in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4235	The regulatory time for today's meeting has now come to an end, but the President will propose that we continue the debate until today's map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4241	I would like to thank the representative Sverre Myrli for saying the wisest words I have heard here today, in fact. I'm 100 pst. agree with him that we might focus on some crazy things, and we also focus a little too much on some things that don't matter to most people. Swearing Myrli has flashed in the eye, and I appreciate that – as opposed to another representative, Kolberg, who is not to be accused of having glimpses in the eye. But at least he accused me of haressing with other people, and then he thought that since I chatted with other people, it was right-wing populism. I'm a little uncertain about how he came to that end. Those who are then accused of being right-wing populists, in other contexts, will be called popular. But once you protest against social democrats or conservatives in Europe, you quickly become populists. One must remember that the people accused of being populists, perhaps one, two or three years ago, were social democrats, and at some point they woke up and became populists. It was probably a reason why the social democrats in Europe did not deliver what they promised. It's no harder than that. They used to deliver what they promised. People were satisfied with it; they had jobs; it wasn't a very huge immigration; they didn't feel alienated in their neighborhoods; they felt trust between people. It's gone. That's why they become popular. The people stand up against the power and the elite. It's not populism. There are popular uprisings and protests, which were otherwise called all rebellions against capitalism in the old days. Then it wasn't populism, then it was a popular uprising. I talked about the essay on the Left in today's Business. That was interesting, because the Left has been sitting and negotiating a settlement on a budget. So the three sides of today's business use to tell us that this budget was very expansive – too expansive – and that it's actually dangerous for the future that we spend too much money. When you have the opportunity to change this budget you sit and negotiate, for example. by promoting cost cuts that actually make it possible to do it properly, but do not choose to do so and rather choose to go to Today's Business on the day we are going to adopt the budget they themselves have been in, I find it a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4249	The last thing I talked about from this speaker chair was this climate measure you have, that the temperature should not increase by 1.5-2 degrees to 2100. To put it that way, I'm guessing that my tippole children are going to experience that the temperature has not risen 1.5-2 degrees in 2100.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4253	I understand from the last post that there is a bad feeling on the civil side. What is a government actually supposed to measure? It shall be measured by results. What has it achieved? What direction has it taken our country in? In what direction do the main arrows point? Are we going to achieve the climate objectives with the budget adopted tonight? Nope. We have heard the Prime Minister say that she has presented the greenest budget of the times, and from the Left we have actually heard throughout this great period that they achieve more climate impact with the Progress Party in government than with the Workers' Party. We have been sitting and waiting, we, for three years, first on the Green Tax Commission and looked at working groups. The political majority in the UK for a more offensive climate policy has not been used because we were to wait for the ultimate green shift, and it was going to be in the budget for 2017. But after a few weeks of limping, running what has appeared to be tough processes, and even breaking the negotiations, then a budgetary settlement is drawn into the port, strongly overtime, which, according to CICERO, will give lower emission reductions than the Workers' Party's alternative budget would have given. Are we going to adopt the powerful measures that are actually going to be taken to reduce unemployment, or is it going to be allowed to get stuck? Last week, we got a new Nav show that unemployment continues to rise, and you'd think that when four parties sit and move to 7 billion. kr in a settlement process, the dramatic situation would be what they were all, most concerned about. But no, there is no trace of action for the South-West in that agreement, and despite the fact that the government has reduced its efforts towards the South-West in its draft budget compared to this year. These long alerted dynamic effects of tax cuts are constantly absent. The government's financial policy does not work at all. When we vote afterwards, the majority will vote for cut, among other things. to disabled, to resource-requiring users. They are going to vote in favour of a tax policy that continues to reinforce the differences between people instead of reducing them, and despite beautiful words from up to several representatives from almost all parties about how important it is to maintain a social model with little differences between people. But it is not possible to combat increasing differences in words – it actually requires political action, but the will is not there. So briefly to the end of the Red Isaac, as I see has left the hall now. He can cancel his tour. After the agreement was put in place, which made new coverage possibilities visible, for example: new estimates, we have put forward a proposal for an adjusted framework, and instead of increasing cash support and paying people to go further home, we are going to spend that money on strengthening kindergartens to get more kindergarten teachers in. I might not reach a quick explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4270	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4275	Nice. Thank you, President, for being so out of your mind. A quick explanation of vote at the end: the agreement brings with it a whole series of verbal proposals. These verbal proposals have been put in place as a single proposal for the Stortinget, proposal No. 100. There are both individual proposals that we are in favour of, and these are individual proposals that we are opposed to. We are going to vote against proposal No. 100 because it is presented together. That doesn't mean that we're opposed to all of the single elements in the equation – just so it's clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4280	So that's the exact same thing as that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4285	The Labour Party, and in particular the representative Marthinsen, have been criticising the government's oil money usage throughout the day. The Labour Party writes in its 2015 alternative budget that they spend 2 billion. kr less than the government. In the 2016 budget, they couldn't spend less, they had to go to the budget line to show that they were getting a little under, but there were revenues that came pretty much in the year after, so I'm giving them zero in profit for that year. This year it's 4 billion. kr. In the three years, oil money has been 596 billion. kr, of which 6 bn. kr less from the Workers' Party. It can't be the six billion. which is the destiny of future generations and jobs in this country. So to the criticism of the efficiency reform, although very many people really think it should be made more effective. Of course, the hospital sector can also be organised differently within a budget of not less than 200 billion. kr. It's been shown. We have had the waiting times down, health cows have become shorter, the Labour Party election promise of one million more treatments in 2017 we managed already in 2015. Every year we have called for efficiency improvements and demands for other organisation. You can do that perfectly without harming the patients. There's smarter ways to work, there's new investment, there's the use of new technology, but if you measure a business just after what you put in, and not after what comes out, then I realize you're against any reform. So a brief visit to the representative of Kolberg's previous posts. He says about the cooperation parties: how do they manage, he asks, with reference to the Christian People's Party and the Left. Well, they do because they get a significant impact on their policies. We have all heard Skei Grande say in this room that she sat for eight red-green years without hearing for as much as a Document 8 proposal. But worse still, Kolberg is also questioning their political morals. I hope it doesn't get so that those who have a different political stance than Kolberg also have a questionable morality. That's how it sounded on his posts. And then I would say, "Why do the cooperation parties work?" Well, maybe they can because they're cooperating with parties that don't question their political morals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4294	At the first article in today's debate, we began with Bible references, and now we are in the post-ludie – in the final round – both in the debate, in the budgetary procedure and hopefully in the lifetime of the government. It has been a sad assembly that has joined the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party today. It's not much enthusiasm anymore, it's not much glow or enthusiasm if you raise the quotes, for example. by the Christian People's Party leader: «In reality, the ultimatum-making minority government is heading towards a possible government crisis.» I remember very well the year before the previous big shot. Then Trine Skei Grande said: ‘A majority government undermines democracy because it undermines public debate and the possibility of adopting good proposals in Parliament’. So now we had to get more order on things, and the living parliament has to get rid of the majority government. And what have we seen this fall? We've seen a government that has broken absolutely all the rules of the game. Paragraph. 1: An important tax proposal was presented – not in plenary, not for the King, but in a separate press conference with the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, so that it was not possible for the Stortinget to get involved in it, in a purely PR show. Then came the state budget. One did not start negotiations on the state budget until long overtime, and one broke all the deadlines once in a while, and the Rules of Procedure of the Storting have been broken. It has been a very messy process, and it has been a political chaos. The result is that we got a budget unit on Saturday night that it is not possible to go after. And the containment proposals, what is it? Well, you tape the operating loan to Bane NOR by 150 million. kr. What are the consequences? We don't get an answer to that. You're shifting road projects for almost 400 million. kr. How does it turn out? Is it that the toll financing is supposed to take over, that the projects should only be started with tolls, and then a later government might take the bill? We don't get an answer to that. It shifts important infrastructure for Norwegian research and uses it on the operating budget. That's how you could take that point by point. It is not possible to guarantee the quality of the agreement that came on Saturday night. It's totally irresponsible. We have seen the outcome of irresponsible policy before. I often travel to Eastfold, and I drive past Rygge Airport and see the place where 1,000 pieces lost their job. What bombs lie in this agreement is too early to say. We've got one today: that you've aged the budget by 500 million. I'll cut to the hospitals and to the police. It's a wrong priority with the resources that we have in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4318	And I thought that most church musical works ended with a hallelujah choir!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4324	It is quite unusual to see the budget partners, who have said in the past that a good budget has improved etc., now be in open polemics with each other most of the evening. It may have something to do with the gap between the goals of the cooperation partners and where they are now. We tend to forget a little quickly, so we have to refresh our memory a little bit: on October 23, 2013, Ola Elvesuen said that ‘enhancing climate reconciliation has its muscle and power in the cooperation agreement concluded between the Left, Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Advance Party’. On December 12, 2013, Tine Sundtoft followed up by saying: ‘With this budget, the government starts work on strengthening the climate agreement.’ Then Ola Elvestuen followed up by saying: ‘We shall also strengthen the climate agreement.’ Rigmor Andersen Eide of the Christian People's Party said that ‘We shall even strengthen the climate agreement’. Yes, even Oskar Grimstad in the Advance Party saw the light that night. I mean it: Oskar Grimstad from the Progress Party said that ‘we can have the reduction in the climate agreement. We have also said that we should strengthen it". On the 18th of December the same year, Erna Solberg followed up and said that we have said that: ‘we shall strengthen the climate agreement’. Tine Sundtoft said on 12 February 2014 that «we have said that we should strengthen the climate agreement». On March 4, 2014, Tine Sundtoft wrote in a letter to the Stortinget: ‘The follow-up and strengthening of the climate agreement is of high priority.’ Nikolai Astrup said the same 22 May 2014 that ‘the seated government needs to strengthen the climate agreement’. And climate minister Tine Sundtoft followed up there again and said, ‘The government has said that the climate agreement is firm and that it must be strengthened’. I could still do that. But I see now that I can't list up every time the sitting government parties and their partners have said that the climate agreement will be reinforced. When the Left Party and the Christian People's Party become angry that they are measured by what they have said to happen, that is because that is what they have said. And not only have they said that the climate agreement should be reinforced, that we should achieve the climate targets for 2020, they have even said themselves that that was why they supported a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4384	So when the climate agreement is cancelled today, when representatives of the sitting governing parties now suddenly say that no, it was not possible to achieve, it is not possible to interpret in any other way than that the Christian People's Party and the Left, although they do not get any climate policy gains from this cooperation, prefers a government like the cutters in the children's supplement, like the cutters in the physiotherapy of those who need it the most, who run a less redistributive and more unsocial policy. They can't, after saying for three years that the climate agreement has to be met and strengthened and strengthened, today come and say no, we can't do it because of the previous government. These are the goals of the government and the cooperation parties, these are the objectives they themselves have not given priority to achieving. I am deeply disappointed that the Left and Christian People's Party chooses to allow such a government to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4387	I'm going to have one more post, but I want to say something about this with the hospitals, because we're now starting to drill into what this is really about. I would like to say first: to keep up with the demographics – that we are becoming more people, more older – the hospital budgets need to increase, to keep the level. The government proposed to use $1.9 billion. kr more. In the agreement, 1.4 billion is proposed. kr. It's a cut in relation to what the government had proposed. Hospitals have prepared for 1.9 billion. kr, which was small, because you need 2.1 billion. kr to keep the level. It was already small – now it's almost half a billion dollars less. That means Health South-East: 230 million. kr less, Health West: 81 million. kr less, Health Middle Norway: 61 million. kr less, Health North: 55 million. kr less. If I don't remember correctly, Oslo University Hospital has a daily budget of 50 million. NOK, so there are five days to operation at Oslo University Hospital that will be gone. It matters. It's actually worse than that. Because in the money that's now down to 1.4 billion. kr, it's 250 million. kr to the so-called free choice of treatment, which treats some hundred patients, and there is also a large amount there that is actually for technical adjustments, which are not related to new, fresh offers. So this is important. Of course, hospitals must operate effectively. I recommend the Minister of Finance and others to go to the hospitals and say: great efficiency potential – you are not working enough on it. Morten Wold, the representative of the Advance Party in the Health Committee, says it very honestly: this leads to doctors and nurses having to run faster. I think that's quite right – and we can add help nurses, porters and anyone else who works in hospitals. Therefore, the Medical Association and the Nursing Association are deeply upset about this, which they have been out with during the day. And I ask myself, Did the Christian People's Party and the Left know that this was the result? The representative Syversen has said: Well, you demand more efficiency – here you get more efficiency. But I don't get it to agree with the Christian People's Party's view of the importance of hospitals that this was thoughtful and investigated, that this is coming. In the past, hospitals have been protected – now they are not protected. And for them to work more effectively: tonight on the TV 2 news, we see a superior at Oslo University Hospital saying it's tricking with numbers to save money. I'm not going to judge it, but with the showdowns that the waiting time goes down, and that more people are being treated, there's reason to look at it more closely. So this government has got its rest cut, and it came to the hospital area, where it is to be treated more – more with chronic disorders, more elderly. I wonder if this has been thoroughly debated, whether one has really been involved in the interview, even though it has taken two months. It would have been interesting to hear, before we leave here tonight, from the two cooperation parties here in Stortinget if this was a consequence they got thoroughly laid out, explained and elaborated by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4400	I notice that the opposition – and especially the Labour Party – is trying to compare a well-known red tape reform, which this government started when we took over, with the introduction of new taxes. This has been a well-knownreform of red tape. I agree with Sverre Myrli that the name may not be the best, but the point is to streamline the public sector. It's probably very few in this room who say they're against, but it now sounds like this is something that's been found in the last little thing in a late night hour. No, it's not, but we've done another trick, and it's at least right in front of it. It is necessary that the public sector continues to face a challenge. So you could say -- yeah, there's a lot in the hospitals. Yeah, the budgets are big. If a private company had been informed that next year a more efficient one would have to be 0.8 pst., I don't think it might have been seen as something unattainable. Then I record that the opposition cracks in every direction. The best illustration of this is probably the famous diesel tax, where Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum beats a blow for zero dollars in increase – after increasing the diesel tax for many years, the Center Party has now found that it is right to go to zero – the Workers' Party has put 15 dollars on the government's proposal, SV takes a dollar, and MDG takes five dollars. It says a little about the gap that is in that field, and then it says a little bit about the fact that snoring together a budget that will accomplish many good purposes – especially the green shift – is not something that has been done in a hand turn. We can take criticism that we spent a long time agreeing on an agreement where the Left and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly supports the government's budget. But we came up with a result, and that results in the greenest budget ever dealt with in this Chamber. This results in a large cut in greenhouse gas emissions, also up to 2030. So I think this debate has shown that the government and the supporting parties, the cooperation parties, have put forward a good budget, and the opposition cracks in every direction to criticise it. It is best illustrated by the Labour Party, which has barely mentioned the climate in one word in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4409	There has been a strange debate. There must also have been a relatively tame debate, when the representative, Mr Wickholm, spends his time in the main room twittering, and asks whether or not the undersigned and the representative of Greece are going to be on the floor. Now he can at least tweet that we're actually both here. Then Wickholm can take it further, and then we can take the debate. There's been a lot back and forth in the hall. I have great respect for the Christian People's Party and the Left, with which we have negotiated. Yeah, that's been tough. It should just be missing, because there are different parties that want to get through for their business. What I think irritates the opposition the most when you listen to the debate is that we came to an agreement. We finally reached an agreement, which gives predictability to enable the government to continue its work on implementing all the reforms it has begun. I've been at Stortinget for a few years. What's special is to hear some representatives from the red-green parties criticise whether you've got a pass here or a pass there. Yes, for eight years with a red-green board, the despair in the eyes of some representatives was seen when matters came to committee, because everything had been done in the back room. When the matter came to Stortinget, one could hardly move on a single penny. What is important is that the reforms undertaken can continue. We see that new owners of limited liability companies sign their first contracts, and that you can actually save money. We see how new sections of infrastructure are being put in place, and how we increase the means of maintenance, so that we actually start to re-engage as the red-greens left behind. We see that the settlement queues go down, so that those who have committed a crime come in to a settlement without having to wait a long time, and that is very positive. Subsidies schemes and VAT compensation schemes for the construction of nursing and nursing homes and nursing homes have been put in place — in fact, these dwellings are being built. This is going to benefit the people out there, and it's been longing for it. It's quite obvious that when we've been negotiating, it's been to and fro – something you very much agree on, other things are deep inside. That's the way it is. That's democracy. I am very pleased that this government can continue. It's very important, because there's a lot left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4421	I would like to thank you for the debate. I would like to thank him even more for approaching the end, and for having adopted a budget soon. Since the representative Schlagsvold Vedum tells of his inner thoughts when he is in the vicinity of Back, I can also do so. When I see Rygge, I think that the air passenger charges are now in the Center Party's alternative budget. It's especially with that rhetorical center party that has led in that matter. But there's nothing the Center Party should be ashamed of. For we have seen what Ryanair has done. They've moved their flights to another airport, which has the same fee. It shows that there is no charge in itself that has caused that problem. Truls Wickholm is surprised that the Christian People's Party will vote on the Christian People's Party's primary budget. That's what we do because we think it's best. When the financial settings were provided, no unity was in place. So let me put that in. That is why we will vote in favour of it. But I want to remember what Jens Stoltenberg – I have heard several of his lectures – has talked about, the good compromise. That's what I thought we got, just to show you. What has created enthusiasm for the Christian People’s Party? That's the throughput we've got. I have noticed that there is – with perhaps one exception for cash support, which has received some criticism – a so-called gathering of aggregates that seemed wise to prioritize several teachers in 1–4. class, and not least to lift the action plan to defeat the election against children. Initially, 176 million was granted. Now it's going to be over 500 million. kr. I also think that we're increasing the pension for minimum pensioners who are single, by $4,000, are things that create understanding and respect. I've also heard different party leaders on the red-green side. There is a certain gap in the field, as the representative of Greece said. I was so honest when the Labour Party's alternative state budget came, that I gave tribute for the climate action. But I also mean that the unity we have got in place will lead us in the right direction – against the obligations we all have. So I'm also so honest and saying: Yes, we're doing a lot of climate now, but I think everyone is forced to do more, when we see how the climate challenge -- almost day by day -- increases, and that gives us all some challenges. The Christian People's Party is content with unity, and I'm recording an enthusiasm for the things we have prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4436	It's getting thin. It goes a little bit on the stumps. There's not much enthusiasm left – when the Christian People's Party at the beginning of the debate today recognised that they felt they were faced with an ultimatum, when the Left spends time attacking the oil money use in its own budgetary settlement, when the Progress Party attacks the Left to attack the oil money use in its own budgetary settlement, when Nesvik, who has wandered from the back room to the back in the last days, starts talking about the red-green backroom, and when Greece was later scheduled to increase its efficiency cuts. We all know in a bunch that when it's like a lack of money, it's convenient to fuck for an efficiency reform with even a little bit more, and a quarter of a billion dollars will be cut in hospitals, and it's worth 125 million. kr to cut the police, and then one gets covered up the good promises that are needed in a settlement. - Yeah, it's thin now. There has been a harvest with a bourgeois chaos and a settlement concluded in 12 hours triggered by the fact that a cabinet question was actually raised before the state budget was presented. There are a number of strange deposits here that we do not have the opportunity to clarify within a day and a half that have passed since the settlement was concluded. The hospitals have been mentioned here, and you can also ask yourself: what are these phase shifts that you should do in a number of areas? Phase shifts at Hålogalandsbrua, on E16 and on Rv. 13 – is the postponement of the projects, or is it the first to be filled with tolls, and then the state share will come in the following years. In that case, we have a government that not only cuts costs in order to achieve a budgetary settlement, but also pushes costs ahead of the budgets to be settled in the following years. It's very unfortunate in case. Then I see that Greece believes that the opposition on the Stortinget is cracking. This has happened some time before, I think, that the opposition party has had different opinions. It was probably also in the period 2005–2013 that the Left and the Advance Party did not agree on all kinds of cases. But what we've got in this period, and which we haven't had before, is a government-forp and a big-forp, and the two things aren't always the same, odd enough, because it happens that the Progress Party is involved in something in government, which they then find out in the Stortinget that they shouldn't be on anyway. We'll deal with such a matter tomorrow. It's about DAB.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4445	It's thinly worn, says Marit Arnstad. It's more that this is the result of a hard budgetary struggle, at least from the Left. It's been hard, but we're definitely ready for new games and for new breakthroughs. The representative Serigstad Valen drew a quote from both myself and others that we should strengthen the climate agreement from 2013. If there's one thing we've really done in these years, it's strengthening the climate agreement. Perhaps the biggest step is to take in the budget we are dealing with today. It is definitely so that the 2020 targets are important and still apply. That also shows the decisions that we are now making. It's hard to get enough emissions, not least from the starting point that we had in 2013. But if we look at the results of what we're doing, it's clear that there's a big step forward. We're doing what the previous government couldn't do. First, we had to reverse the tax on biofuels that were contained, which had already been introduced. Now we're taking the big step forward towards 2020, that we have a 20 pst integration requirement. – a major step and a major challenge for Norwegian business to be able to produce enough. Then we extend the benefits of the zero-emission vehicle until 2020. It's hard to define how much sales we can get, but it's definitely absolutely necessary to achieve the next goal, which we've also set ourselves by a civil majority on the Stortinget, that in 2025 it's only to be sold a zero-emission vehicle in Norway. We also decide to extend those benefits, and we set a measurement of 50,000 cars in the case of a hydrogen vehicle. But that's also the other one. We have decided that we should have a CO 2 fund in order to have a switchover within the heavy transport sector. We have a decision to put in place a flat CO 2 tax that is to be phased in gradually. After listening to the speeches from the Central Party that have been held here today, I doubt that this would have been possible with anything other than a bourgeois majority. The resistance is definitely not greatest among these four parties. We're going to implement and be able to change. When we put on top of it, tightening up a climate law that will point forward towards both 2030 and 2050, and we have a consensus that we will set our targets together with the EU in 2030, we also have a guarantee that there will be penalties if we fail to implement the decisions we are to. We're going to decrease by 40 pst. towards 2030, and we do that in the light of the decisions taken in this period, and yes, we know we need to strengthen the proposals we have, and we definitely have the will to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4464	It's been a hard debate. We in SV have probably contributed to that. Some of the things that happen in Norwegian politics a day deserve harsh words. But at times there has been the hardest between the parties that are now to adopt a budget together. There is a fire in the civil camp, and it has this budget debate carried a very clear mark of it. It's time to sum up. The majority said that they would have a change of pace in climate policy. Emissions are increasing, emission targets are given up for all practical purposes, and the calculation presented in relation to climate may likewise lead to emissions continuing to increase. The majority said they would set up for people who have little. Almost all the unsocial cuts from the government's budget proposals are made. The majority of cutters in the children's add-on. Fire damage and people who have had heart attacks must pay for physical therapy itself. People who lose their jobs are taxed for their termination benefits. The majority said they were going to bet on health and education, and then they used hospitals and colleges as a balancing item for hundreds of millions of dollars in their budget agreement. The majority promised answers on a housing market that does not work for too much of our population. Nothing significant has been done in this budgetary procedure; nothing has been mentioned by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister in the debate. The majority promised lower taxes for people with large wealth, great inheritance and high incomes. They have kept that promise — to their benefit. This is the government of the economic elites. It's very clear who's given priority. There's no surprise when the right-hand side takes power. What can be a surprise is how long the Left and Christian People's Party chooses to hold its protective hand over the Advance Party in government, and a government that repeatedly prioritizes those who have the most and need it the least, in Norwegian society. The differences in wealth and power are increasing in this country, and the response of climate policy means that our capacity for solidarity with our children, with those who come after us, is diminishing. Norway at its best is a country based on solidarity – solidarity with one another, solidarity with the world around us, solidarity with those who come after us. Now we have to make a choice of solidarity for the future, and that is the opposite of the budget adopted here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4481	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4486	It is known that the government has a bad case when the parliamentary leaders of both government parties have to stand on the platform and solemnly promise that they have respect for their cooperation partners – yes, they assure us so that there is no doubt about it – followed up by the parliamentary leader and party leader Hareide, who, on his side, congratulates himself on the fact that the debate is coming to an end. We are in the strange situation that we are now going to adopt a budget that none of the cooperation parties really want to acknowledge. It is a luxury they have, but the poor people, the chronically ill, the disabled, the unemployed and the increasingly poor children must live with this budget. The one who is not allowed to live with the budget is the Prime Minister. SMK is exempt from the efficiency reform of citizens. At the Prime Minister, there is no need for any improvement in efficiency. Irony needs no further deepening.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4495	I can promise that the SMK can be more effective. In a year we'll see examples of that. I would also like to thank you for a debate that has been interesting. It has made clear a great deal on the side where policies are to be implemented, and I think the 'ultimatum' method is being reworded here this autumn. The representative, Mr Hareide, said well that with an ultimatum they were heading towards a crisis, and the head of the Finance Committee said that it was very little wise. From that edge there is strong use of words. Today, when the two parties vote subsidiaryly for their own proposals first, it says a few things about the situation. It's not particularly surprising, because the differences are there from 2013. They can be plastered over, but not forever. They have come out in free dressing this autumn, and we have seen it in the budgetary procedure. So it's this thing in a hurry. Now I don't know what the representative of Greece's definition of a trick is, but he says that's what hospitals have to take – another trick in efficiency. So in one month, they can cut down on 427 million. kr. That's to cancel people, that's to relocate-- in one month. No, it's true, as the representative Wold says, that they have to run faster – the pressure on the hospitals from the elderly, chronically ill, etc. We know what it is, but the fuck here is that they have to run faster. It says a little bit about what has been the haste here. So back to climate: it was especially to hear that the Workers' Party has not talked about climate. Firstly, we put forward an alternative budget that talked thoroughly about climate. And I think it's interesting to see that CICERO, who has calculated the effects of the budgets -- the government doesn't have a method to do that -- says that what is now delivered and adopted by a majority here today, almost comes up at the level of the Workers' Party. That's their word. I would like to give tribute to the Christian People's Party and the Left for drawing this budget in the right direction in terms of several important things, and they have fought hard for it. At the palate of this six-month period, I cannot escape the following thought: What if the Christian People's Party and the Left had used all the power they have used since the ultimatum to get where they came – close up to the Workers' Party's proposal – to work with us to really use the forces to do something that could be even better and better? We could have enjoyed it. We could learn from it, and they could learn from it. They didn't have to spend two months fighting down someone who's against climate change being something we're going to deal with, and someone who's also spending all the time on suspending activities based on an ultimatum. At a distance this autumn has been clearing up. It has made the political tension clear. The political centre in Norway is not on the right of the Right, and therefore it is time for a government change in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4514	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4533	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Finance of the Government's proposals for the State Budget and of the 2017 National Budget be annexed to the minutes of the meeting on 6 October 2016. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4544	A total of 96 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3-26, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 27, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left the proposals No 58 to 63, 65 to 85 and 101 to 108, from Snorre Serigstad Valen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 86-98, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 99, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 100, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 109–126, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 127, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 128, from Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party The other suggestions included in the adjustment are not included. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 110, 111, 115, 121 and 125, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget in 2017 to put in place a climate reward scheme in which fossil fuel taxes are increased and revenue is redistributed to the population.’ Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The government is asking for close follow-up to the biofuel market and is proposing to further raise the marketing requirement if market access, robust sustainability assessments and costs so require.’ Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a 500-kron CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector in 2017’.» Proposal No. 121 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose exemptions from the re-registration fee for electric cars with effect from 1 July 2017. If necessary, the Government shall notify such exemption to ESA as soon as possible.’;» Proposal No. 125 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to present a climate legislation as soon as possible setting a target for the low-emission society in 2050 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in the range of 80-95 pst. from 1990 levels. The law shall establish a system for the setting and follow-up of specific emission targets for each ageing period, in line with the 2020, 2030 and 2050 targets, which shall be adopted 12 years in advance in order to achieve predictability. The carbon budgets shall, in sum, provide a realistic emission path towards the legal climate targets. When assessing the achievement of the target, account shall be taken of the effect of Norwegian participation in the European Climate Change quota system on activities. A four-year legal mechanism shall be established whereby, in order to promote the transition to a low-carbon society, the government shall submit to the Storting Renewed Climate Goals as interim targets by 2020, 2030 and 2050. From 2017 onwards and at intervals of 4 years, the government shall establish its status and present a new climate target preferably 12 years in advance. In 2017 and every four years, a climate impact assessment report containing an action plan for the forthcoming ageing period shall be submitted. The size shall adopt sectoral emission targets for the forthcoming scaling-up period as part of the action plan on emission trajectories and measures in the different sectors over the next four years leading to national emission targets not exceeding the emission cap allocated to the carbon budget. The action plans shall focus in particular on national instruments contributing to conversion, strengthening competitiveness and reducing emissions for all sectors. Climate objectives shall take into account best up-to-date scientific knowledge at the time of determination, be numerically identifiable, measurable, reportable and verifiable, involve progress from previous targets, and promote gradual migration by 2020, 2030 and 2050. Climate objectives shall be established consistent with Norway’s contribution under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and any joint implementation with the EU. It shall also be statutory for the government to submit a report on the state budget and the annual climate legislation reporting to the Stortinget showing the status of Norway's carbon budget showing both emission paths and action analyses, including in the context of possible climate cooperation with the EU on common compliance with climate objectives.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4620	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 86, 87, 89, 91 to 94, 97 and 98, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 86 sounds: « Framework Decision I
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4882	Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government asks the organisation of an Environmental Funding Scheme according to the tax FUNN scheme model.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate into Enova’s mandate a target for the full electricisation of today’s fishing fleets by 2023.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnus in the farming industry, which provides an estimated proceeds of 900 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government is asking, from the financial year 2018 instead of introducing a tax on labour in the financial industry, for proposals to increase the tax rate on profits in the financial sector from 25 p.m. to 28.5 pst. in order to obtain the same accrued income from the financial tax as in the Government’s proposal.’;» Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a tax deduction into the income tax on investments in enterprises according to the model of the English system Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme [[SEIS]] Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the gradual phasing-out of today’s oil industry. The phasing-out phase needs to be coordinated with a prerequisite for reaching the climate agreement in 2020 and over 40 p.m. reduction in total Norwegian emissions in 2030.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to postpone the implementation of a new income system for municipalities and to investigate and promote a proposal for a new income system for municipalities and regional policy instruments to ensure that municipalities, regions and counties promote a more environmentally friendly, more climate friendly and more adaptable municipal policy. A Green Conversion Indicator Set shall also be developed in Norwegian municipalities as part of a new income system.» Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend its mandate to allow Investinor AS to enter the previous growth phase and take up to 75 pst. of total investment.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 109, 112, 116, 118 and 122, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the phase out of all tax advantages and subsidies directed at the petroleum industry.’ Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that in 2018 the State budget contributes to reducing the overall burden on the Norwegian economy on the nature and resources of Norway and the world. A system of planning, investigation, reporting and governance shall be developed with the aim of ensuring that the Norwegian economy is within the limits of nature’.» Proposal No. 116 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate a process with relevant business organisations for the establishment of an environmental agreement with the associated CO 2 fund. It is assumed that the Fund will ensure sufficient revenue through a step-up of the CO 2 tax for the industries concerned and that funding will be in place by 2017. It is an objective that the Fund shall contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 1 million tonnes of CO 2 eq annually by 2020 and 2,7 million tonnes of CO 2 eq annually by 2030. The Government reports on the process, arrangements and possible timing of setting up such a fund in the revised national budget 2017.’;» Proposal No. 118 sounds: ‘The government is asking for satellite-based road pricing for heavy transport. The investigation shall also assess the impact of such a system on zero-emission cars and the transition to biofuels. The government is asked to return to the revised national budget in 2017 with a concrete work plan. ‘... Proposal No. 122 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Perspective Communication to discuss the implications of a new global climate target to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C on the Norwegian petroleum policy regime and to outline a food and petroleum policy in line with these impacts and the Norwegian Climate Change Act.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e4983	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 88, 90 and 96, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to impose a ban on the disposal of food waste in its municipalities.’ Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate into the mandate of Enova a target for the roll-out of shore electricity in the 20 ports with the largest emissions, in 9 fast access ports and in vulnerable fjords with a high cruise traffic by 2023.’» Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to continue the quality of life accounts according to the Health Directorate’s report of June 2016, starting in 2017.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5013	There is a vote on proposal No. 124, by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a ban on the cultivation, drainage and destruction of bogs by Easter 2017 at the latest.’ The Socialist Left Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5030	There is a vote on proposal No. 119, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy for the commercial development of liquid wind turbines at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2017 which can contribute to the profitable electrification of Norwegian base.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5049	There is a vote on proposal No. 95, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the creation of a CO 2 fund for the transport of road by road by road.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5071	There is a vote on proposal No. 126, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget 2017 to assess whether the Oslo municipality’s climate budget can form a template for a report on the climate impact of the state budget and a template for binding sectoral climate budgets in the state budget.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5090	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 120 and 123, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 120 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the revised national budget 2017, to propose a change to the one-off charge, which means that chargeable hybrids with a long electric range will come out better than cars with a short electric range.’ Proposal No. 123 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for fossil-free construction sites/site(s) in the transport sector. Based on experience gained from pilot projects under way, the government shall return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a concrete objective of transition to fossil-free civil engineering at the latest in the revised national budget 2017.’;» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5114	There is a vote on proposal No. 114, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of at least one CCS facility to help Norway achieve its national climate change target for 2020’.» The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5134	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 113 and 117 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2017, with the necessary appropriations and powers to ensure the rapid progress of all 3 CCS projects investigated. [[Yara, Brevik and Klemetsrud]] Proposal No. 117 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce the E10 as an industry standard for petrol during 2018. The government is asked to return to the revised national budget in 2017 with a concrete work plan. ‘... The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5158	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 58-61, 68, 70, 72-74, 76, 77 and 83, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 58 sounds: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Central government 9 356 065 000 2 Family and consumer 46 975 403 000 3 Culture 11 267 082,000 4 Foreign 36,876,338,000 5 Justis 32 201 604,000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 27,833,531,000 7 Employment and social affairs 436 532 556,000 8 Defence 46 032 949 000 9 Industry 5,943,397,000 10 Fishing 878 350 000 11 Agriculture 17 067 944,000 12 Oil and Energy -65 370 589 000 13 Environment 11 239 743,000 14 Constitutional institutions 2 509 069 000 15 Health 184 852 219,000 16 Church, education and research 75 055 835000 17 Transport and communication 64 648 081,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 178 740 797,000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 4,246,786,000 20 Financial administration, etc. 27,235,428,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1 019 686 535 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -23 319 462 000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 111 116 591,000 ‘... Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the parental leave scheme more flexible and family-adapted by introducing a new option for parental leave, where parents can withdraw leave for 54 weeks with 90 pst. wages and Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asking, within the proposed increase in police annuals, to set aside resources to establish child violence sections in all police districts.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asking, within the proposed increase to the police, to set aside resources to fully implement the SARA and PATRIARK tools in all police districts.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that critical operational tasks in hospitals, such as cleaning, are performed as internal operations instead of outsourcing services.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals continue to employ people in permanent positions, in order to ensure the competence and security of alerting in our hospitals.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate so-called ‘free treatment choice’ and to implement the ‘real treatment choice’ scheme, a system in which the agencies and hospitals are obliged to inform where and how patients can get the best and the fastest possible treatment.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place a principle to always consider carrying out a task on its own before selecting commercial solutions.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to abolish the commercialisation promotion with so-called ‘neutral VAT’ for hospitals before this affects quality and patient safety and financial stability in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to impose severe sanctions on municipalities which force elderly people in nursing homes to live in double rooms against their will.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to strengthen rehabilitation, including physiotherapy, where several diagnoses are covered by the free treatment system.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new inheritance tax model to be implemented for distribution purposes and to submit proposals in the context of the 2018 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5487	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 62, 65, 66, 78-81, 84, 85, 101, 102 and 105-107, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how to strengthen the work of Ecocrime against environmental crime.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the closure of the therapy pool at the Diakon home and, where appropriate, others in the corresponding situation and to ensure further operation, at least until equivalent alternatives are established.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the professional basis for the subject matter of specialised rehabilitation, including the use of thermal pool, and what is to be a municipal responsibility.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the urban environmental agreements scheme, which negotiates support for environmentally friendly transport activities, and for all growth in passenger traffic to be taken with collective, bicycle and gangways to several cities.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that, in 2017, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will be able to provide financial support in addition to the allocation, but that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1825 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 31 Sea Wind [[NY]] 500,000 ‘... Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to present a legislative amendment to ensure the possibility of charging tolls for rail purposes.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to the industry to agree on CO 2 funds on a model from the NO x fund and to remove the possibility of a low rate of base tax on fuel oil for industry.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start negotiations with the business community with a view to establishing a CO 2 fund on the model of the NO X fund in force from 1 July 2017.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government requests an interpretation of the VAT compensation scheme legislation which ensures that the acquisition, operation and construction of municipal and disposable dwellings are covered by the VAT compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The government is asking the phase out of fossil warming in all state buildings, including defence buildings, by 2018 and, if necessary, return to the Stortinget with concrete proposals as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the compensation scheme for the loss of sheep in the outland, so that it gives better financial incentives to care for its own grazing animals.’ Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The government asks Norway to close the EU Environment Programme LIFE with effect from the financial year 2018.’ Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the subsidy to the environmental organisations of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and not to add the scheme to the Environment Directorate.’ Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The government is asking for full compensation for the carriage of goods by rail, including during rush hour, and, if necessary, for any changes in appropriations in the context of the revised national budget 2017.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5633	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 103 and 104, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The size consents to the government being authorised to provide financial commitments for the further planning of the CCS projects in addition to the appropriations granted.’;» Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a Norwegian public investigation into the petroleum tax system and the consequences of a new global climate target to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C on the Norwegian petroleum and petroleum tax policy regime’. The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5655	There is a vote on proposal No. 63, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose how the government will ensure contact and travel support for prisoners as zones in the Netherlands, as well as build capacity in Norwegian prisons to make the places in the Netherlands redundant, thereby improving the quality of criminal services.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5675	There is a vote on proposal No. 108, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that zero-emission technology is required by all new ferry offers and the purchase of national road ferry services from 1 January 2017.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5694	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 67, 69, 71, 75 and 82, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tasks of normal operation are carried out internally in the hospitals, not through the use of cost-effective consultants.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the objectives of increasing the number of employees offered full-time jobs.» Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals take the lead in ensuring adequate apprenticeships, both for the health sector and for all other relevant education.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a new escalation plan for lowthreshold mental health services in municipalities.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to secure accrued-to-date pension entitlements and AFPs for those over 55 years of age in Mantena.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e5734	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Central government 9 057 972 000 2 Family and consumer 48 478 972 000 3 Culture 10 765 984 000 4 Foreign 35 854 771,000 5 Justis 31 694 754 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 24 977 386 000 7 Employment and social affairs 431 574 556,000 8 Defence 45 819 449,000 9 Industry 4,778 542,000 10 Fishing 546 350 000 11 Agriculture 17 090 944,000 12 Oil and Energy -65 971 789 000 13 Environment 10,858,893,000 14 Constitutional institutions 2 499 069 000 15 Health 181 955 913,000 16 Church, education and research 74 763 766,000 17 Transport and communication 64 803 081,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 173 729 397 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 2 504 286 000 20 Financial administration, etc. 27 210 428,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -995 267 035 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -23 448 962,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 114 276 727,000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6006	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 8, 12, 19, 23 and 127 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Central government 8,857 365 000 2 Family and consumer 47 451 903 000 3 Culture 10 858 874 000 4 Foreign 33 633 588 000 5 Justis 32 500 954 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 26 472 566 000 7 Employment and social affairs 436 978 176 000 8 Defence 47 127 949 000 9 Industry 5,479 342,000 10 Fishing 528 350 000 11 Agriculture 17 735 844,000 12 Oil and Energy -65 451,589 000 13 Environment 9,921,468,000 14 Constitutional institutions 2,490,069,000 15 Health 182 822 506,000 16 Church, education and research 74 017 628 000 17 Transport and communication 65 734 281,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 176 375 397 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 3,948,376,000 20 Financial administration, etc. 27,217,328,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1002 216 535 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -23 440 962,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 119 042 878 000 ‘... Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asking for free publications covering narrow areas from VAT in the same way as general newspapers. The same shall apply to the sale of individual items.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asking for the capitalisation rate to be set for the calculation of property taxes on hydropower plants at 3 pst. with effect from the payments made by municipalities in 2017. The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a new calculation model for this rate that takes account of market interest rates, for example through the level of interest on central bank bills with a maturity of 12 months and a reasonable risk premium. ‘... Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for increasing the integration requirement for biofuels and advanced biofuels in the years up to 2030, with the objective in 2030 of fossil-free transport. At the same time, it facilitates the fastest possible phase-out of biofuels containing PFAD and strict practices in relation to EU sustainability criteria.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government requests a reduction in landing charges at small aerodromes.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an SME discount in the capital adequacy requirements to strengthen the financing of SMEs’.» Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘The Government is asked not to initiate the closure of the FM network until the Storage’s demand for added value for listeners can be demonstrated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6309	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21 and 22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asked to defer the implementation of a new income system for municipalities. As a basis for the promotion of new proposals, a wide-ranging public body is set up to assess the criteria of cost-balancing and structural and regional policy subsidies. This is the subject of a wide consultation before proposals are submitted to the Stortinget.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the planned closure of almost half of the country’s tax offices and instead to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way with a plan to provide the public with the best possible services locally and digitally.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6333	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the follow-up of the CCS projects Brevik, Herøya and Klemetsrud and agrees that the government is authorised to give financial commitments for the further planning of the CCS projects in addition to the appropriations granted.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 7, 16, 17 and 24–26, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to issue a claim for Norwegian terms and conditions of pay and work for employees on vessels in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the operating aid scheme to organisations supported by the LMD budget.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to introduce neutral VAT into health businesses.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to terminate the State funding scheme for the care of the elderly.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate how the use of tender criteria can increase public procurement of goods and services produced in Norway.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the support of small businesses and how innovation and growth in the SME sector can be facilitated by the authorities.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to charge the air passenger fee and to design it in a way that rewards low-emission aeroplanes, to provide the fullest possible aircraft on the major routes in Norway and not to hit the district routes. It must also be taken into account that routes out of the EEA are not subject to an allowance system.’;» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6403	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a phasing-in plan for the turnover requirement so that the share of biofuels increases to 20 pst. in 2020.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to ensure that as much as possible of the increase in biofuel turnover is achieved through the use of advanced biofuels and to take into account sub-requirements for advanced biofuels of 13 pst. in 2020.’» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6427	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 10, 13, 15, 18 and 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow up the efforts of the ESA space programmes and not to reduce them in the coming years’.» [['European Space Agency']] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the double counting of advanced biofuels be continued and that fiscal policy be targeted in such a way as to provide long-term and predictable framework conditions for domestic production.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking how advanced road pricing can contribute to a fairer and more environmentally efficient taxation of car use.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for a Norwegian marine wind demonstration project and an analysis of the environmental benefits and value chains that can be developed in Norway in the context of sea wind. The plan must aim at the construction of one full-scale demonstration park for liquid sea winds in Norway.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests to investigate the possibility of differentiated landing charges based on the climate load of aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to continue the role of the county council as responsible for allocating funds for regional development within programme category 13.50.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6472	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Central government 9 277 065 000 2 Family and consumer 49 214 072 000 3 Culture 10 774 984 000 4 Foreign 36,727,771,000 5 Justis 32 151 654 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 27 276 436 000 7 Employment and social affairs 437 137 256 000 8 Defence 46,197,949,000 9 Industry 5,372,942 000 10 Fishing 526 350 000 11 Agriculture 17 307 744 000 12 Oil and Energy -65 847 989 000 13 Environment 10 027 668 000 14 Constitutional institutions 2 509 069 000 15 Health 184 307 819 000 16 Church, education and research 74 643 643 000 17 Transport and communication 65 312 081,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 173 110 597 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 3,821,986,000 20 Financial administration, etc. 27 242 128 000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1002 761 535 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -23 290 962,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 121 038 728,000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e6744	There is a vote on proposal No. 128, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal for a framework for the 2017 State Budget Frame Range Framesum [[in SEK 1000]] Loan transactions, etc. 39 406 300 Add User-ID Succeeded Central government 9 151,065 2 Family and consumer 49 370 403 3 Culture 11,460,834 4 Foreign 35 347 171 5 Justis 32 346 054 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 24 027 766 7 Employment and social affairs 437 336 876 8 Defence 46 197 949 9 Industry 5,714,742 10 Fishing 531 350 11 Agriculture 17 157 744 12 Oil and Energy -65 378 989 13 Environment 10,346,268 14 Constitutional institutions 2 519 069 15 Health 183 218 513 16 Church, education and research 74 229 338 17 Transport and communication 65 414 581 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 176 489 797 19 Random expenditure and revenue 3580 324 20 Financial administration, etc. 27 248 428 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1 004 818 877 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -24 267 662 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e7014	There is a vote on proposal No. 99, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e7276	President! I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e7281	The result is that 59 voted in favour and 44 voted against the proposal – and that is why the proposal is accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 100, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government: Start a process with relevant business organisations to establish an environmental agreement with the associated CO 2 fund. It is assumed that the fund will be secured with sufficient revenue through a step-up of the CO 2 tax for the industries concerned and that funding will be in place by 2020. It is an objective that the Fund shall contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2 million tonnes of CO 2 eq annually by 2030. The Government reports on the process, arrangements and possible timing of setting up such a fund in the revised national budget 2017. Expand the benefits for electric cars through the following actions: The VAT zero rate for electric cars is continued until 2020. The government is requested to immediately initiate notification of this extension. The corresponding advantages for electric cars are passed on for fuel cell cars to 2025/50 000 cars. A national binding rule is established that a zero-emission vehicle shall not pay more than a maximum of 50 pst. of conventional vehicle tariffs in the case of tolls, ferries and parking. Promote proposals for exemption from the annual fee for electric cars with effect from 2018. If necessary, the Government shall notify such exemption to ESA as soon as possible. Promote proposals for the environmental differentiation of the one-off motorbike fee according to the model of the conversion of the one-off charge for passenger cars as soon as possible. Step up the turnover requirement for biofuels for road transport and the sub-requirement for advanced biofuels in the years 2017 to 2020. The sub-requirement for advanced biofuels is set to 2,5 pst. from 1 October 2017, 3,5 pst. in 2018, 4,5 pst. in 2019 and 8 pst. in 2020. Steps up the general turnover requirement to 20 pst. The timetable for the escalation shall be laid down. Implement the advanced biofuels market closely, and propose further raising the turnover requirement if market access and costs so warrant. Determine the climate potential of CO 2 -neutral synthetic fuels and assess the appropriateness of any changes that may be necessary to ensure technology-neutral market and instrument management for CO 2 -neutral synthetic fuels and other climate-friendly alternatives. During 2018, the E10 will be introduced as an industry standard for petrol. The government is asked to return to the state budget for 2018 with a concrete plan for the work. Exploratory satellite road pricing for heavy goods vehicles. The investigation shall also assess the impact of such a system on zero-emission cars and the transition to biofuels. The state budget for 2018 at the latest presents a strategy for the commercial development of liquid wind turbines, which can contribute to the profitable electrification of Norwegian base. Evaluate the extension of the ship certification scheme to include capacity reduction in selected segments. The Condensation Grant may then be paid immediately, but the beneficiary shall undertake to use an equivalent amount for the contract of environmentally friendly new buildings which contribute to the drawing of the maritime industry towards the low-emission society in line with the applicable criteria for the Condensation Grant. As soon as possible, and preferably in the revised national budget 2017, propose a change to the one-off charge which means that chargeable hybrids with a long electric range come out better than cars with a short electric range. Promote proposals for exemptions from the re-registration fee for electric cars with effect from 2018. If necessary, the Government shall notify such exemption to ESA as soon as possible. Evaluate a green conversion of the tax depreciation system introducing an increased depreciation rate for new zero-emission vehicles [[balance groups c, d and e]] In the Perspective Communication, discuss the implications of a new global climate target to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C on Norwegian petroleum policy. Develop an action plan for fossil-free construction sites/site(s) in the transport sector. Based on experience gained from pilot projects under way, the government will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a concrete objective of transition to fossil-free civil engineering. Promote proposals for a ban on the cultivation of new ants. To propose a climate legislation setting a target for the low-emission society in 2050 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in the range of 80-95 pst. from 1990 levels. When assessing the achievement of the target, account shall be taken of the effect of Norwegian participation in the European Climate Change quota system on activities. A five-year mechanism shall be laid down by law, whereby the Government, in order to promote the transition to a low-carbon society, shall present to the Stortinget renewed climate objectives as interim targets by 2050. From 2020 onwards and at five years intervals, the government shall establish its status and present a new climate target preferably ten years in advance. Climate objectives shall take into account best up-to-date scientific knowledge at the time of determination, be numerically identifiable, measurable, reportable and verifiable, involve a progression from the previous objectives, and promote gradual migration by 2050. Climate objectives shall be established consistent with Norway’s contribution under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and any joint implementation with the EU. It shall also be legal for the government to submit, in the context of the annual reporting to the Stortinget, a report showing the status of Norway’s carbon budget, including in the context of possible climate cooperation with the EU on common compliance with climate objectives. To determine a material charge, differentiated on fossil and recycled, as a possible substitute for the current packaging charge, and come back in connection with the revised national budget 2017. In the next tender, shore-side electricity is required at ports where Hurtigruten’s calls are normally over an hour. Support for shore-side electricity shall be given priority in the preparation of a new agreement and mandate for Enova. To introduce equal to CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector in 2018, with a preliminary derogation for agriculture and the fishing industry. For agriculture and the fishing industry, the setting up of joint committees shall be entrusted with the task of assessing the possibility of introducing a progressively increased CO 2 levy for these sectors and proposing other climate action, provided that the objectives of rural policy, agricultural policy and fisheries policy are met. The work is presented in the context of the State budget for 2018. Investigate the possibilities of a differentiated and lower annual fee for passenger cars for residents living in areas of the country that do not have a real alternative to a car and promote any proposals for changes to the state budget for 2018. In the revised national budget 2017, an assessment of whether the Oslo municipality’s climate budget can form a template for reporting on the climate impacts of the state budget. Return to the revised national budget 2017 with the necessary appropriations and powers to ensure rapid progress in the CCS project following the adoption of the concept selection in the autumn of 2017. Explain the need and extent of publicly funded housing solutions for students in secondary education and, where appropriate, explore alternative measures, including the consequences of integrating housing for students in secondary education into the Husbanken Student Housing Grant Scheme. Promote a case on the criteria for the inclusion of new accredited private higher education services in the State financial instruments. Estimating measures to stimulate a faster day-to-day building of demente by the legal requirement will come into force from 2020. Ensure that outlawed children questioned by the State Children’s Hospital are offered medical examinations. Ensure that there are no disproportionate requirements for those who may be allowed to offer patient travel, such as distance and travel time, and that the Dead Sea Clinic may be given the opportunity to offer similar offers to other providers. Evaluate the refugee agreement in the context of the state budget 2018, including the number of quota refugees in the future. Assess the possibility of tightening up the marketing of credit, including consumer loans. Promote proposals to amend § 12(a) of the Kindergarten Act in such a way that children who reach the age of one year by the end of November of the year in which they are applied for kindergarten are entitled to have their place in the kindergarten from the age of one year in accordance with this Act with regulations. facilitate rightholders who wish to develop commercial products related to their own intellectual property. Ensure equivalent treatment in the allocation of funds to regional film funds. Assessing a system of registration of companies and companies in Norway without a physical presence in accordance with the model from Estonia. Rate the capitalisation rate of the property tax on power plants. Provide a comprehensive review of access to venture capital in Norway, both public and private, and make appropriate proposals for improvements. Prepare a plan for two hours of ground route on the Oslo-Bergen, Oslo-Trondheim, and an assessment of the other distance sections Oslo-Stockholm, Trondheim-Bodø and Oslo-Gøteborg in the context of the investigation of material strategy and customer offers in the upcoming call for traffic packages. Prepare a plan for the measures needed to get an hourly train to Oslo-Gjøvik. It can be assessed whether the implementation of remote control and ERTMS can be accelerated. Ensure that urban environment agreements contribute to achieving the objective of fossil-free public transport from 2025 through the choice of the concept of the 50/50 scheme. This is also followed up by, inter alia, ferry offers and new rules for procurement in the public sector. Evaluate to ensure full compensation for rail freight operators for road charges, including in rush time, and, if necessary, return with changes in appropriations in connection with RNB 2017. Return to the revised national budget 2017 with an assessment of any amended budgeting model for the Sameting. Ensure that exceptional Argentum dividends are financed through the realisation of assets if there is a need for liquidity. Evaluate the extension of the VAT exemption for media to all digital journalism and come back to RN 2017. Consider securing grants for self-organised sport, including the umbrella organisation/common self-organised sport management body for the award of tipping funds. Promote a proposal to stimulate the use of Norwegian music by radio operators and channels in the DAB network in connection with the transition to DAB radio. Appropriately, promote a case with an assessment of repealing the rules requiring a member of the State pension fund for three years in order to be entitled to an additional pension. Consider whether Norway will join the LIFE EU Environment Programme. Consider a measure of that at least 10 pst. state resources for public procurement shall be innovative, climate-friendly acquisitions, and shall return to the Storting with any proposals for their realisation. Evaluate how to set zero-emission technology requirements in the case of new ferry offers and the purchase of national ferry services and return to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget 2017. In the context of the State budget for 2018, an assessment is made of combining equity participation 1 and equity participation 2 into a joint equity participation with an upper framework of NOK 3000. In connection with NTP, an investigation into and how electrification of the Trondheim-Stjørdal route can be carried out together with the establishment of a new double track on the route. Make sure that the route E39 Betna-Stormyra is evaluated in the work on new NTP. By June 2017 to present an overall cross-sectoral strategy for mental health, which also addresses in particular the mental health of children and young people, as a pre-work for an economically obliging escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people. Ensure that social pediatricians are employed at all child wards in Norwegian hospitals. About a rapid follow-up of NOU 2016:12 – Ideal cleaning, so that treatment can take place in Stortinget in spring 2017. Return to a plan for long-term investment in agriculture in the revised national budget 2017. Return to Stortinget in the revised national budget 2017 with an assessment of the establishment of a top industrial centre. Consider changing the TAX FUNN scheme so that a higher share goes to enterprises below the age of 8. In the management dialogue with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, priority will be given to increasing the scope of the AVT action. Ensure that the waiting time for action sites decreases and that the waiting time for action sites is mentioned in the State budget for 2018. To entrust regional health businesses with the task of investigating two proton centres in Norway. The study shall plan for the construction of a single centre by 2022 and further phased development, depending on capacity needs and development of treatment technology. The location of the centres may be in Oslo and Bergen. Reiterating the grant scheme to different organisations under the heading. 1138, entry 70 and not to convert it into a project support scheme from 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e7525	When considering proposal No 99 Stortinget has taken its framework decision. The I of the setting thus falls away. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-05.ana.ud9e7635	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
