ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e109	The representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, is now taking its seat. Four permit applications are available: from 10 May to 13 May to take part in meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington and Chicago of the Central Party on welfare leave of the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 10 May until further notice from the representative Arild Grande on care leave from 10 May to 23 May from the Progress Party Group on sick leave of the representative Mazyar Keshvari from 10 May until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Jenny Følling, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on 12 and 13 May under the permission of the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Uppland County: Ivar OdnesFor Oslo: Peter N. MyhreFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Jenny Følling and Sigurd ReksnesFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e188	Ivar Odnes, Peter N. Myhre, Jenny Følling and Jorid Holstad Nordmelan are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e204	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e211	Today, the Stortinget gathers on a historic decision: Changes in the Church Act – the transformation of the Norwegian Church into its own legal entity, etc. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter. Christian faith, tradition and culture have strong roots in our society. The significance of the Church in society is not only about each individual's belief, membership and participation in church activities, it is also about a mutual influence between church and state over nearly a thousand years, and about all the values developed in this symbiosis and sometimes also in the field of tension between life views and politics. The fundamental importance of the Church as a social institution is reflected in the thorough process that led to the state-church conciliation. The broad consensus behind the constitutional changes says a lot about how important the political environment felt it was to lay a good foundation for a more liberal future people's church. As the rapporteur, I am therefore very pleased that the position we are now putting forward is a general one in which the members of the Committee support the main features of the government's proposal. It's a strength when we make a historic decision that will forever change the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the state. This is a reform proposal that is well prepared, and it must be said to be a natural follow-up of the inter-political state–church settlement. With this, a great step is taken to separate the Church and the State, and to make the Church master in its own house. But it is as our Minister of Culture said at the Church Meeting: «The church is separated from the state, not from the people». There has been a broad political consensus that the Norwegian Church should continue as a people's church. In our work, the members of the Committee have put great emphasis on working together on the main features of the position. I see it as a clear desire to contribute to the Norwegian Church also in the future to have a solid foundation and a anchoring for just becoming the people's church we have said that we want. The legislative proposals under consideration today have been widely consulted and have also received good agreement from the Church's own organisations. 1 600 employees are affected by the reform and will have a new employment relationship. The bill confirms some features of the Church's organization. The Church Meeting and the Church Council are given clearer roles and responsibilities. It must be a pastoral service in each parish, prost in each prosthetic and bishop in each diocese. The independent position of the priests is statutory and the ability of the bishops to exercise their role as a separate body is guaranteed on a legal basis. The bill clarifies that the Norwegian Church is to be financed at the present level and that the financial division of responsibilities between the State and the municipality is not changed. The Committee proposes some changes to the Government's proposal. The most important one is related to the question of limiting the Church's ability to borrow. An overall committee does not wish to legislate for such a restriction at this stage, but considers that this must be seen in the context of the equity issue and the other financing. This has been announced during the budgetary procedure for the autumn. Furthermore, the Committee called for clarification in the use of the term ‘the Norwegian Church’ to clarify the difference between the mention of the national legal entity and the mention of the Church at local level. A new fifth paragraph of Section 5 has also been proposed in the clause addressing the handling of changes in municipal borders and the relationship with the partitioning law. Otherwise, the setting contains two minority suggestions. One is from the Labour Party and the Central Party related to elections and democracy. The second is from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party linked to the practical theological seminary. I expect representatives from these parties to explain these. I am very pleased with the good climate we have had in the committee around the work. Cooperation has been well across all batch boundaries. It has earned the cause, and it will also serve the relationship between the Church and the state at the entrance to a new phase. I therefore recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e241	This has not been a simple matter. It's complicated juice, and Prop. 55 L is not the easiest thing I have read in my time here at Stortinget. Many with me thought that much was unclear, and important actors to deal with the law thought much should be clarified – that important elements were unclear. There was also disagreement about some legal paragraphs. The Labour Party has had many questions and input, and I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur, but also the Committee, for the constructive and responsive approach in this matter. The position and proposals now presented to the Grand Duchy will provide a good basis for law enforcement when the law enters into force. A unanimous committee proposes to postpone the issue of access to loans and funding to the 2017 government budget. This is one thing many are excited about. The Workers' Party is concerned that the Church should have good, predictable financial framework conditions. For us, it is important that the Church should continue to be able to carry out its daily tasks in a good way, that all employees have good working conditions, that they comply with the law by providing services throughout the country, and that the Church can carry out and further develop its social mission. A future framework grant must also take account of general wage and price increases. At the end of the 1100s, the Church was firmly established in the country. In 1537 the king of Denmark – Norway established the Evangelical Lutheran faith as official religion, and we got our first church law. The church system of the Middle Ages was then replaced by new provisions on positions and actions in the Church, and King Christian III laid the foundation for our church system. The position of the Church was confirmed in the Constitution of 1814, became important for the development of democratic ideals, and a church reform process was initiated. In 1873 a certain degree of autonomy was introduced for the parishes, and it again set in motion a movement for increased participation within the formal structures of the Church. Unofficial national meetings were held every two years until 1982. In 1984 the Church meeting with its 116 representatives was passed by law. This shows a lengthy and strenuous process of achieving the openness and democracy that the Church has today. The church elections in 2015 were a milestone in the development of democracy. It is now important to strengthen and further develop democracy. In this way, I think it is a pity that the proposal that we, together with the Center Party, are promoting to Section 23 today, probably does not get a majority. Following the 2008 Church Agreement, a number of reforms have been carried out, and the relationship between the State and the Church has become a fundamental second. For the Workers' Party, it was and is important that the further development of church systems and the strengthening of the Church's independence take place step by step and with a broad religious and political connection, as we do today. We find it strange that the government and the majority of the committee are so impatient to start a new reform phase. One can get the impression that what we're now adopting is only of a temporary nature. It is a large and comprehensive business transfer for approx. 1,600 employees who are now to be started, and it is important that the Church is given enough time to make a good transition. What's coming next – about that, for example. will be a short or long framework law that will replace what we are adopting today – we will get back to. I have noticed that not all politicians are pleased with the Church's social exposure. Just before Christmas, Councillor Listhaug was out in the media and said that the Church should not interfere with political issues. The Labour Party disagrees with the Council of State. We appreciate that the Church says from when there are things on the political agenda that they believe interfere with the Christian message, even though we do not always agree with them. They should not be silent in the assembly, to say it that way. The Church is part of our democracy and has a social mission, and it can get bigger. The Church can, for example, be an important contributor to the creation of religious dialogue and meeting places for increased knowledge between religions and outlook on life, which will be important in the work towards radicalisation. This is an important day in Norwegian history, an important day for everyone who is occupied with the Church, but it is also – I also stress – important for the Church not to be separated from the people, but from the state. My wish is for the whole Church to come even closer to the whole people. I take this up with me the suggestions the Workers' Party is on, and I state that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, will vote against the fourth paragraph of Section 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e267	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e270	"Where there's a lot of sense and wisdom, there's also a lot of dissatisfaction," said Martin Luther. Fortunately, this does not apply in the case that we are dealing with now. I would like to thank all the parties for their cooperation. Special thanks to the rapporteur for a good job, which has led to a broad consensus on the main changes proposed. In addition, there is a political consensus to postpone the treatment of the Church's access to borrowing. For the Progress Party, it is also important that a case of church administrative reform has been widely consulted, and that the Church meeting in 2015 was largely linked to the content of the proposition. When this matter is adopted, another important part of the church agreement is implemented, which involves a distinction between state and church. The work of giving the Church the freedom to be lord in their own house has been going on for many years. The Storting has previously adopted amendments to the Constitution to give the Church the right to appoint bishops themselves, and has adopted a new electoral system to ensure that church members are more able to influence who is elected to the Soccer Council and the Bishops' Council. In addition, the gravitational code has also been amended to ensure the separation. This is a historic day in the church context that the Advance Party has been looking forward to. Today we decide to make the Norwegian Church our own legal entity. This implies that the Norwegian Church has a legally independent capacity for action, as is the case with the individual sockets today. And a new legal entity is formed, the Norwegian Church. Since the Reformation of the 1500s, the priests have been civil servants. It must be said to be historical that we today decide to transfer the employer's responsibility for the priests and others who are now State employees, who belong to the Church, to the Church. The different sockets shall remain the basic unit of the Norwegian Church and shall have an independent legal status. The Soknet will continue to be an employer for its employees and have its own finances. The ecclesiastical bodies are governed by law, and the Church meeting becomes the supreme body of the Norwegian Church. The church meeting shall be capable of acting on behalf of the new legal entity in all cases where it is not provided for by law or by law that the authority has been added to another body. The Church Council is given a clear role as the executive body of the Church Meeting, and thus of the legal entity. It is regulated that the Church is to be nationwide by the fact that it is still to be a minister in every parish, prosthetic in every prosthetic and bishop in every diocese. This ensures that the Church will be available throughout the country. In this case, there is no change in the funding of the State and the municipalities towards the Church. Today's decision means that the Church is to be financed through framework grants and that the funds are to go for the same purpose as before, among others. Trophy training. The new thing is that the framework grant is to be made available and distributed by the Church meeting and not by majority or government. The party of progress is for a free church without political interference, and this is probably a step on the way to a free and independent church. With this decision, the Church will undoubtedly become more independent. At the same time, many, including the Progress Party, believe that freedom from the state may also mean that the economic ties to the state cease, and that the Church and other religious communities become self-funding. Financing the Church and other religious communities will certainly be many discussions about the future. The Progress Party looks forward to a comprehensive review of the field of faith and life, and that all issues of funding and non-discrimination will be addressed in the next round of the laws of the religious and life-view societies. The reform that we are adopting today allows the Church to make the changes that they themselves think are necessary in terms of organisation and legislation until the next reform phase. The Progress Party looks forward to the Church's work on this and expects that the purpose of the work will reduce the state's legal regulation for the Norwegian Church to a brief framework legislation. Finally, I wish the Norwegian Church good luck with new responsibilities, and state that this is an important day. The Progress Party looks forward to further work and process in the context of reform phase two, which will give the Church complete autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e300	From this pulpit we are often told that things are historical. We're talking about historical bets, and we're talking about historical breakthroughs. But when our descendants are going to learn about Norway's history in the future, it's not certain that absolutely all of our highlights from this big period are mentioned in the history books. But I'm pretty sure the very matter we're debating right now is going to be discussed. We can certainly say that we are in agreement with a historic decision. I believe it is an important and correct decision The Storting should take today. Although there may be some mixed feelings for some of us, I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus and a great deal of agreement between the Government, the Magnificence and the Church's own organs in this matter. There are many people who have called the distinction between state and church for a divorce, but I don't feel that it's a divorce we're in. It doesn't feel quite like a funeral either, even though the church model is probably buried for good. It really feels more like I'm in a confirmation, because in the confirmation it's about confirmation, and in the confirmation it's the baptism and belonging of God that's confirmed. Today it is in a way The Norwegian Church that is the confirmation, and we are confirmed that the Church is just a church belonging to God, and not a government or a public establishment. And then there's also another similarity between the confirmations and the Church, and that's that they're not just concerned with the content of the confirmation, but they're a little busy with the money that comes with it too. For the Church's part, it's not so strange, because the Church feels that there is a lot that is unclear about the economy, even though we say that both the State and the municipalities will still have a responsibility to finance the Church in the future. The issue of equity in order to manage future risks will be a theme of the government budget for 2017 and, in this context, the Stortinget will also decide on the Church’s access to borrowing. Such an opportunity would be imperative if equity is not sound enough, but I believe that it must be an objective that we give the Church a real opportunity to stand on its own, and then we must ensure that sufficient equity is also given. Then it is also important for me to stress that although the Church becomes an independent legal entity from next year, it does not mean that all ties between church and state are broken. What we're talking about, as several others have also said, is a distinction between the Church and the State, and not a distinction between the Church and society, or the Church and the people. The Church will still have a special role and place in society, in the law, and also in the Constitution. The Church of Norway will remain the Church of Norway, and the Church will still be subject to much stricter regulations than other religious and life-view societies, and it must deal with demands and expectations of which other religious communities are not affected. One of these demands is that the Church should be a nationwide church, it should be accessible to all. It must be a good performance with a priest in each parish, a prost in each prosty and a bishop in each diocese. When we make such demands for the Church, the State must also make, so that the Church will be able to deliver. We have to provide funding, and we have to help solve the challenges the Church will face in the years to come. When we look at the age composition of the clergy, we see that recruiting enough priests can be one such challenge. Here, the state must contribute and facilitate as it does when there are other competences that society needs. I believe that the state must also take the consequences of the new working time agreement concluded between the clergy and the state, which I expect the Minister of Culture to follow up on in the revised national budget, which is presented very soon. Finally, I would like to mention the educational offer to the priests. I think it might be a good solution to add a practical theological seminar to the University of Oslo, as we now decide, but I would like the government to take the trouble to come back to the Stortinge with a closer assessment of the different options, not least to ensure the equivalent funding of the practice guide at all the different educational institutions that train performances. It's almost tempting to end by lighting the blessing, but I'll be very careful to wish the Church good luck, and say that I am looking forward to a continued good dialogue on important clarifications for the Church's future. And with that, I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e313	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e316	It is – as has been said earlier here today – a historical suspense of the decisions the Storing is going to make today. The changes to the church law mark a shift and a further release of the Norwegian Church from the state. The self-change is a direct follow-up to the decisions taken in 2012, when a whole of seven paragraphs of the Basic Law were amended, in line with the so-called 2008 Church Agreement. Between 2012 and 2016, this matter was thoroughly addressed in the ecclesiastical bodies – and politically – as it has been done in the proposition. For the Central Party, the liquidation of the King's special church rule is a decisive factor in this context. When the state, through the Church Council of State, is no longer a constitutional church body, much of the foundation falls away to maintain the arrangement that the Norwegian Church has only delegated the power of action from the King, i.e. the Ministry of the Church. It is natural that the Norwegian Church thus receives legal powers as an independent legal entity. For the Central Party, it has been important that this process has taken place through a step-by-step development and through democratic processes. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Central Party had comments on the implementation of the previous ecclesiastical elections and the outcome of the democratic reform, which was an institution for the church settlement. The central party believes that the church law does not go far enough to secure the grassroots in the church directly, and suggests that all the seven play the representatives of the episcopal councils should be elected directly. The increased influence of grassroots is particularly important now, since the composition of the biceps in the future will mean more. The episcopal councils have already been given greater authority in the appointment of church leaders. Further authority is conferred by the decision today. This suggests that all members should be elected by direct elections. I refer to the proposal made by the representative of Sønsterud on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. In the case of the same paragraph, Section 23, the Central Party will vote against the proposal for the second sentence of the fourth paragraph. We believe that it is inconsistent to adopt a legal secret that opens up to centralize tasks without there being a corresponding rule of law to move tasks downwards, especially since the sovereignty of the socket is clearly established in other paragraphs. The central party notes that the government will return to the Stortinget in the draft government budget for 2017 with the necessary clarification of the financial responsibility. As you can see from the comment in the setting, the central party has some concerns about this. The funding of the Norwegian Church is a springing point in the further process. It is crucial for both the efficiency process, trust training and, not least, the local presence of the framework initiative to take on the height of general wage and price growth and to include the objectives and tasks currently funded by the state, including outside the church budget. Legalising the position of the socket and local presence is of little value if the Church is pressed to join the socket in order to balance the economy. In the proposition, the government entered for a highly limited loan access for the Church. The centre party has taken this up during the treatment and believes that it will be able to put the church in a locked economic situation. I am therefore pleased that the Committee of a Consultant agrees with the Central Party that this issue should be raised until the issue of equity and framework permissions has been resolved. The central party responds to the fact that the proposition goes a long way in accelerating the introduction of member funding in the Norwegian Church. Through both previous political processes of the State–Church process and internal processes in the Church, it has been clear that membership funding is not desirable. Therefore, the Norwegian Church cannot be taken into account for the future introduction of a private membership quota. The Central Party will warn against ordering people to make an economic choice to be members of the Norwegian Church. Sufficient framework funding is necessary to prevent this. In the proposition, the government announces that the next step is to abolish the church law in favour of a general framework law for belief and vision. Let me briefly stress that the Centre Party does not take a position on this now, and will wait for the further details and discussions of the Church bodies and organizations before it is time to decide on new reforms. The central party believes that it is decisive to further the Norwegian Church as an open and inclusive people's church that the future framework funding takes on the commitments of the Norwegian Church as a trust society, as an employer, and that the Church is not forced to introduce membership funding in order to carry out those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e339	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for bringing the Committee through this matter in a neat and good way. It's a big thing, and it's no simple matter either, but I think we, both the case rapporteur and the committee, have got through it in a good way. The primary position of the left is quite clear. We want a full distinction between state and church – that also means in the Constitution and in other laws. We believe that all citizens should be guaranteed full freedom in matters of faith, and we believe that this must mean that no public institution should be linked to a particular religion. The matter we have in front of us today is an important and long step in the right direction. Now we are about to begin with the distinction between state and church that Left has long wanted. As many people have been faced with, the different elements of this case are, and establishing the Norwegian Church as an independent legal entity, is perhaps the most important and most symbolic of what we do. But it is also important that we take the initiative to transfer the priests from the state to the new legal entity. It's important to get the distinction that we want. Several have now said that there will be a distinction between state and church, but there will be no distinction between church and people. That's one way to say it. I use to think that when we now get a distinction between state and church, I have confidence that the members of the Norwegian Church want to further develop our church towards a broad and good church, even though it is no longer a church of state. It's a process that I think is going to be exciting, and I want to be part of. Although we are now in the process of taking an important step today, most of the work may remain, and it is still ahead of us. One thing we've pushed on in the committee is the question of borrowing. But we also know that the Council of State has announced that there will be a complete law. I know that many follow this case. This is a process that engages many, and I am absolutely sure that many more than me get e-mails and telephones about this. It's about how we're going to organise the Church, how the economy around this is going to be organized. That is why there is one thing that we must also follow in the future. In the Left, we are concerned that we should have a generous funding of the religious and life-viewing communities. We need equal treatment, but we also need a generous funding in the future. So do we today. The left has promoted and been given a majority for – the Council of State has also been clear that she wants to – a big message about a holistic belief and life-view policy. The two things are a little interrelated – the distinction between state and church and an overall belief and life-view policy. At the same time, I would warn against thinking that we should narrow this down to just dealing with the distinction between state and church and what kind of economic conditions the Norwegian Church should have. Faith and life-seeing policies as a whole must be much more than that, because as a society we face some important distinctions, we face some values that we need to debate in a whole, not just piece by piece and division. We have to look at it in a whole way – everything from hijab in the police to the use of national weapons. There are many things that appear in such a debate. Although we are now in the process of separating state and church, even though it is historical, and although there are many economic things that arise in the wake of it, we must not forget that it is much more than that. With the principle that we are now in the process of implementing, that the state should no longer have a state church, it also follows an obligation to take the big debate on what place religion and vision of life should have in our society. I'm glad we're going a step further today, but I also look forward to the great work that we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e358	I look at the representative Tyvand as an authority in this debate, so I immediately accept the image of a confirmation. I still need to add that no matter how we look at it, there is at least the end of a union between state and church, from which time has run, from which we now mark another stage. Sometimes it's best to move away from each other for both parties. A modern democratic state must be secular, and a religious society must rule itself without being part of and an instrument of state power. This end of the union between state and church has not ended with the changes in the laws we are dealing with today. There is a need to move on to create a truly faith-neutral state and to create a truly freed church. Not least from this point of view, the SV is looking forward to the big message about an overall belief and life-view policy, which is the right arena to discuss the very breadth of belief and life-view policy, and also how we are going to move forward towards the secular state and the free church that is now becoming a broad consensus that we want in Norway. Therefore, it is also the view of the SV that the changes we are now making in the Church Act should be limited to what is absolutely necessary in order to give the Norwegian Church a position as an independent legal entity with employer responsibility for its employees. We believe that the goal is for the Norwegian Church to be equal to other religious and life-view societies, with the same duties and rights, and thus also for the Church to be free to organize itself. Therefore, our starting point is that there is no reason why the state should regulate the Church's organisational structure. Nevertheless, when we want to vote in favour of the various proposals made by the government for changes in that regulation, it is precisely because the direction is about more freedom for the Church and less power over the Church for the State. We are concerned that in this process we should contribute to orderly conditions also in the Norwegian Church, not least in terms of employer responsibility and the rights of employees in the Church. We believe it is positive that with these changes to the law, we confirm that it is the Church meeting that will determine in the most central questions about the development of the Norwegian Church, and not the Stortinget. We think it is positive that we have reduced the legal regulation of the bishops' councils, and we think it is important that the employer's responsibility is now transferred to where it belongs, but in a way that takes care of the professional rights of the employees in the Church – not least at the point of retirement – and ensures that those working in the Church have fundamental rights that they have had as state employees. When the Storting will continue this process, the SV's objective will be to be a funding system based on full equal treatment between different faith and life views. We are going to be concerned that we should have a framework of support for the belief and life-view societies, but we believe that the overall support for the religious and life-view societies in Norway should not be increased beyond the already significant frameworks used for this purpose. I think it's an important step in the right direction. SV will vote in favour of the proposals that the government has made, and wish the government good luck with the further work on the communication that is coming, and the next steps in the relocation and confirmation that we are going through.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e374	It's a historic event when the Stortinget deals with the bill that makes the Norwegian Church an independent legal entity. Over a thousand years, Christian faith and tradition have shaped our society. There have been deep traces of values and rituals, customs and languages, justice and institutions. Throughout history, the Church of Norway has become the Church of the People. It is the expressed will of the Constitution that the Norwegian Church, as an Evangelical Lutheran Church, should remain the Church of Norway and, as such, be supported by the State. Norwegian society enjoys ever greater cultural and religious diversity. There is therefore a need to lay a new foundation for the continuing life and functioning of the Norwegian Church. It must be done in such a way as to ensure religious and life-seeking freedom for all, and that the specific role and tasks of the Church of People can be fulfilled. These are important questions for many, even for those church members who are not so actively engaged in their church but who still want to belong to and avail themselves of the services of the great opportunities of life. There is therefore reason to be cautious about making changes that can give people a sense that the church is being taken from them. It suggests a step-by-step approach to change and a broad church and political commitment to church reforms. This has been the main theme of Norwegian church policy. Reforms in church law have taken place gradually. And this reform process has gradually established a church organization with democratically elected bodies at local, regional and state level. In the last ten years, too, we have progressed step by step. The church agreement between the parties at Stortinget was concluded in 2008, and a big message was presented. Furthermore, in line with the Church Agreement and the Declaration of Greatness, church democracy reform and various changes to church law were carried out during the conciliation period from 2009 to 2012, and the Constitutional Law on the State Church System was amended on this basis in 2012. Now is the time to take a new and important step. It is gratifying and very important that we can also establish that there is broad religious and political support. That is why I would like to thank the Committee and the representatives of the various parties for their very good and thorough work on this matter and also for their very good and constructive cooperation. It is the government's intention to implement the reform from 1 January 2017. As several representatives from the pulpit have said, the various economic consequences will be presented in the draft government budget for 2017, and this means that there is no basis for saying more about this than what is stated in the bill. Our starting point in budgeting the state's grants to the Norwegian Church at the time of the separation is that the current level of appropriations should be taken into account. But it is also important for me to stress that this matter is about the very distinction between the state and the church. Now we are in the process of examining proposals for a comprehensive law on religious and life-seeking societies. This will include a comprehensive review of the legislation and funding system of the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies, for which the Stortinget has asked the government. We're also going to present a big message about an overall belief and life-view policy, where I also look forward to a very good process with the Storting. We need to be in dialogue with the Church and with the other religious and life-view societies in the work on new legislation, and we hope that we will also come up with good and collective solutions here that can gain broad support and a involving process by the Storting. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Church on a great day and wish them good luck with the responsibility, the obligations and the opportunities it entails to become a legal entity of their own!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e398	The government has been ready for the legal entity not to have access to the loan, both in the proposition and in a response to the Workers' Party. One main reason is that the Church has to perform de-employments and limitations if they are unable to serve their loans. This can be read as if the government does not fully trust that the Church can handle economic matters, and it seems somewhat strange in the light that the Church will become independent. But a unanimous committee will await the issue of the Church's loan access until the overall economic consequences are clarified, and therefore a clarification would have been made. For example, the government sees equity as well as a framework grant that guarantees against e.g.: restrictions? Will they provide the financial space necessary for the Church to maintain its obligations and perform its services in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e405	Our proposal, to which the representative refers, was not a loan for the Church, but I note that the committee and the Stortinget want it. When the ministry proposed a restriction, it was because the Church, so to speak, had no income other than the state grant, and if the Church gets into financial difficulties because of loan debt, the state might get into a situation of pressure. But we will – as I know the representative of Sønsterud well know – come back with a comprehensive funding and equal treatment of all the religious and life-view societies. We're doing the work there now. And then I take note of the unanimous vote in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e410	Another issue that also concerns funding — that is, the matter that the government has managed to create quite a large amount — is the membership funding, which the government parties stress will be a natural part to consider in the future. For the Workers' Party, funding is about the commitments the State has historically towards the Church, it is about the Church's responsibility to manage its part of the cultural heritage, and it is about the Church's anchoring in the Constitution and the social mission it involves, as we stress in connection with the law we are dealing with today, where, for example, the Church. are required to be present throughout the country, much more so than the other religious and life-view society has by law and as obligations. In view of this, the question of membership funding is not a matter for the Workers' Party. But why is it so important to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e419	I fully agree with what the representative Sønsterud stresses, namely that there are some commitments for the Norwegian Church that some other religious and life-view societies do not want, for example. to be present throughout the country, and that will, of course, entail some costs. But then it is that when we are going to investigate funding and financial instruments, it is, I believe, important not to exclude any opportunities until investigations are started. For the government it has been important to say that here we look at all possibilities, and an investigation and review just means that. But neither the government nor I have now taken a position on how we address the question of membership funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e424	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e429	Yesterday we marked the 150th anniversary of the biggest building, and Eidsvoll's place was filled with schoolchildren who learned a little about what we're doing here in the main hall. One of the most important tasks we have is to make new laws or change existing laws to adapt them to a new era. Today, we are going to adopt changes to the church law, which is a good example of adapting the law to a new era. Just as it was a historic day yesterday, so it is today when we adopt these changes. The new constitutional basis for the People's Church was laid in 2012, and now the Norwegian Church is confirmed as a free, independent and responsible church organisation. In line with the Sundvolden Declaration and the Decision of the Church Meeting, the government has developed a new law that provides a clear distinction between state and church while maintaining the Church as a people's church for all, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. The reform we are adopting today also has some implications for practical theological training on the qualification requirements to become a priest in the Norwegian Church, and for the conditions of ordination and addition as a priest. Let me give you an example. Up to now, it has been the Ministry which has laid down requirements for addition and ordination. In the new law, this authority is left to the Church Meeting, which from now on is the supreme body of the Church of Norway. In the case of the training of priests, there are three different institutions in Norway, with slightly different profiles and content: the Theological Faculty of Association, the newly merged University of Science VID and the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo. Then we have the practical theological seminar that has until now been directly under the Ministry of Culture and the Church Education Centre in the North, which has once again been under the practical theological seminar. The proposal adopted today clears this up by transferring the activities of the Church Education Centre in the north to the Norwegian Church. At the same time, the practical theological seminar is being reorganized in Oslo, so that it becomes part of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo. Since its establishment in 1848, the practical theological seminar has been linked to the Theological Faculty of the University of Oslo and has developed in the last few decades, in close cooperation with the faculty, a practical training which is both at the same level as the development of the other professional subjects and is similarly scientifically anchored. In the introduction of the quality reform in 2004, education has been an integral part of the Cand.theol. degree, and there is also a trend in other professional education at the University. There is a positive trend that corresponds well with other professional training courses. We go into a new chapter in the history of the Norwegian Church, and I think Anders Tyvand put words on it, and had the analogy as a confirmation, and I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate ourselves on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e446	It's coming to the end of this debate, and I would like to thank you for your contributions. Many questions have been raised and pointed out — including the future economy and funding of the church. Nevertheless, neither the proposition nor the attitude we are dealing with today has raised a broad debate on decisions related to this. These are questions which, as the Minister for Culture said, first come to the budgetary procedure. Now that we are entering a new phase in the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the state, the Norwegian People's Church is to further develop its form in a multi-religious and multi-cultural society. Over the past 50–60 years, our country has been changing strongly in terms of beliefs and beliefs. My grandparents would hardly have imagined such a development. The diversity we see and want today has helped to expand our horizons and our experience base. At the same time, our ability to deal with issues of faith and life in public space is being challenged. It's about us as politicians, and it's also about the church. Being a church in its time will challenge the Church as an institution and as the manager of the evangelical Lutheran theology. I hope the Norwegian Church will continue its tradition as a dialogue and conversation venue in society in the future. For the Norwegian People's Church, there will also be a pillar and an important cultural supporter in the future, while at the same time it will be a community of faith for the members of the Church and those who seek out the many activities and activities of the Church. With the proposed legislative changes, the Church itself will have greater autonomy and influence on how to meet the future and how to manage its mandate. I hope and believe that we have laid a good foundation for the next epoch of the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e457	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e469	On the basis of the second sentence of the second sentence of Section 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the Municipal and Management Committee requested a debate on the seriousness of the construction industry. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. The President will also draw attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure include a provision on speaking time for such debates by allowing one representative of each party access to an unlimited number of posts. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Members of the government participating in the debate will also have access to unlimited number of posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e480	The construction industry is one of our most important industries. It is an industry that creates jobs and values for the community, that educates new skilled workers, and that builds our country. But it is also an industry with great challenges. Too many unprofessional actors are undermining industrial skills building, undermining taxes, committing crime and engaging in social dumping. The figures from the tax haven show that about 40 pst. issues relating to undeclared work in the last few years have been identified in the construction sector. It's a big challenge because the community is missing out on tax revenue, and because it's slow, but surely the serious players are competing. This is confirmed, inter alia, by: in the 2014 report of Kripos on labour-related crime. It warns against any development leading to a deterioration in the quality of craftsmanship services and the possibility of Norwegian craftsmanship services being fully competitive. These aren't scary pictures of a possible future. In the same year, BNL presented a report showing that seven out of ten of their paint companies had lost their jobs to operators who worked in black. Evolution is serious. We have received warnings about mafia states, and that it also spreads to other industries. In other words, efforts on many teams are needed to meet these developments. I want to commend the construction industry and the Joint Undertaking, which have taken a great deal of responsibility. In 2014, an overall construction industry presented a complete proposal for a voluntary, new central approval. But now we're here, two years after the construction industry made its proposal. Last year the Stortinget made some changes to the law, but it is still uncertain whether the government intends to deliver on the whole of the construction industry. That's why it's good that we have this debate here today, and I'm very excited to hear if the government only has a good description of reality, or if they're also going to act. The construction industry has repeatedly underlined that the measures are linked and must be implemented in full if they are to have a good effect. If the government continues the strategy of picking out individual items, I'm afraid we're throwing away a historic opportunity to take a force against the unprofessional and criminal actors. After two years, the government is unable to decide whether to introduce an authorisation scheme for the ROT and subcontracting market as part of a central authorisation. This is a market that is largely characterised by unprofessional actors, and the BNL has repeatedly pointed out that almost all the growth in the upswing market has gone to unprofessional players who are engaged in black work and social dumping. The introduction of module 2 will allow the order and consumer to choose serious operators, but module 2 is also essential for the central approval system to be attractive to businesses. Since this authorisation system will be voluntary, it is quite important that the companies that are centrally approved are given real simplification. The proposal from the construction industry therefore meant that, if the whole contract chain was centrally approved, the duty of care and control was considered to be fulfilled – a significant simplification measure. However, if module 2 is not introduced as part of the central approval, industry will not receive this simplification either. The committee behind the report Simple to be serious also proposed a registration obligation for construction work. The point is that part of the measures in the ROT market will actually be registered and provide a basis for the supervision of measures that are not subject to an application. This proposal has been examined separately and was handed over to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in September last year. The BNL informs us that they have not yet received feedback on this proposal. The Committee also proposed simplified supervision to ensure more supervision at construction sites and to detect more illegalities. Nor has the government delivered as requested. In other words, much remains, and the time is running out. The system of local authorisation was abolished in the New Year and there is an urgent need to introduce the whole system so that the market does not come out of control. A serious situation for one of our most important industries requires action. In the Workers' Party, we have long understood that everything is related to everything. I hope this debate can assure us that, hopefully, the government has also realised that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e501	Let me first thank my colleague from the Labour Party for the initiative for this debate – a debate the whole committee wishes to welcome, and which we in the Right believe is important. Unfortunately, the construction industry has had to deal with both a gloomy history and negative examples of social dumping, black work, crime and unprofessional actors. Several governments, the Storting and professional organisations have been highlighting these challenges for many years. The industry has also raised the debate itself with unprofessional actors and has made a lot of contributions. Among other things, the construction industry wants the approval of undertakings in the ROT market – the rehabilitating, conversion and ancillary markets. The industry has also given its overall feedback and recommendations through the report Easily to be serious. In June 2014, in order to address the background to today’s debate as well, the requirement for local approval of enterprises was lifted as a result of ESA bringing an action against Norway. That was the background for the change. This amendment entered into force on 1 January of this year. At the same time, however, it was suggested that this should be replaced by other measures, so as to ensure continued seriousity in this sector, and then a new central approval. It is important for both the government and the Right that this work becomes effective and thorough. This is what the government is doing, in good dialogue with the industry and, of course, the Stortinget. Today's debate is an example of that. Since the debate is primarily about raising your eyes and seeing the width, I will take the opportunity to reflect a little on the issues that are being raised, and what I think may be appropriate choices in the further work. Let me first say that although you do not need to apply for local approval prior to construction, that does not mean that there is full release and freedom for unprofessional operators. Although the undertakings themselves may declare liability, local authorities may continue to take decisions to waive liability if the undertaking is not competent. In such cases, it is also important that municipalities have good opportunities to exercise control and transparency so that they can immediately lower their feet for unprofessional enterprises. Just as simplifications in other legislation have given municipalities more resources to concentrate on the quality of construction projects rather than, for example, building projects. spending a lot of unnecessary time on after-selection orders could also mean that, instead of doing registration work and local approval, municipalities could turn resources against supervision. Centrally authorised enterprises have obtained their qualifications upon application and thus fail to re-assess their competence in the municipality. It is the Directorate for Building Quality that approves the enterprises. From this year on, those undertakings shall also meet criteria of seriousness. It can be about everything from whether you have paid taxes, have received comments, have a HMS declaration, have registered your employees, history, etc. to whether the company can indicate whether it is an approved training company and that you have the necessary insurance. Lack of such things — in particular insurance schemes — often leads to major conflicts between individual consumers and unprofessional operators. In particular, I would like to draw up solutions that allow some agencies to now be able to exchange, among other things. tax information from centrally approved undertakings and an automatic transmission of information on which more effort is being made in the future. Finally, it is also important to stress and remember that about 15 000 enterprises are registered today, and they see some important benefits from it. Our job now is to make sure that several companies want to be registered, that they see the benefits of being registered. Some of the advantages are that you become faster a preferred player of customers, because it is about quality, safety and predictability for the customer. Consequently, unregistered undertakings should be given priority in the supervisory procedures of local authorities. I believe that it will pay to be a registered enterprise, and it will pay to choose a registered enterprise. I look forward to the government's work on this in the future, and I think that today's debate can contribute, as it were, to useful input into the government's work. But you don't lie down, as some might say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e522	I would also like to start by thanking the representative, Stine Renate Håheim, for taking the initiative in this debate. I want to thank her for her commitment to these matters, which the Committee has dealt with before, and which we will get to our table in the future as well. I would also like to thank Mudasar Kapur, who in a nice way did things for a little bit of the work that the government is working on. And then we are so lucky that we have both the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs in place, so that we can get further updates on how the government views this matter. I think it's good that the Labour Party has an commitment attached to this matter, but reacts a little to once again making it like the government is doing too little too late. It could almost be seen that all of these challenges have arisen in the last two years. First of all, that's a mistake. It has our challenges for a long time. I also think we should remind ourselves that there are a lot of decent companies in construction, and it is important that we do not draw a picture that there are challenges in all companies and on the whole front. But I think the companies that are serious, maybe they want us to get a model that makes the unprofessional have a harder area to deal with than they have today. Mudasar Kapur went through the background to remove local approval on 1 January 2016. It's going to be working on setting up good alternatives, and there's a good dialogue between government and industry. Many of the work in the report was easy to be serious, which is the basis on which one has to continue working. Once local responsibilities have disappeared, it means that municipalities, which previously process approval under that legislation, have free resources for other things. It is important for us that the resources are now turned towards more supervision. Local authorities play an important key role here, and local authorities are forced to have a large professional community that can handle this in a good way. Therefore, it is natural to say that the ongoing municipal reform is also important. Today, we have 428 municipalities in Norway, all of whom are to have the professional competence to be good administrators of the code. It is reasonably obvious that if we succeed in the local reform, we will have a broader professional environment within this area as well, and we will be in a better position to follow up the companies that need follow-up from the municipalities. Planning and building laws are perhaps the most important promise of local democracy to administer. There is a large room for action here, as planning and building laws give municipalities great opportunities to be managing authorities. The Progress Party wants the municipalities to be yes-communists, but we also want the municipalities to defeat unprofessional actors. It is important that we build the good professional environments that are needed to get even better at it. That's where the municipal reform, which we're in the middle of now, plays a key role. Another point that the municipalities should also consider is that they are buyers of major works in the construction sector. It is important that municipalities have good purchasing skills. In my view, the municipal reform will help municipalities to become even better buyers and to make the right demands as major buyers. This will ensure good competence in local authorities to set the right requirements for making large purchases, which will be important in saying that it is registered, that it has the central approvals and that it is kept in order in its papers are requirements that are imposed and that it is a quality mark for the companies operating. I look forward to the further debate, and we are glad to hear the government's briefing on how the work is going. It is very positive that both the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are putting forward such a debate in Stortinget, so that we get both perspectives – both how one looks at things from their perspective, and how one looks at it when it comes to the ongoing work on simplifying and improving the planning and building laws, which the municipal minister is running with every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e541	The Christian People's Party is pleased, and thank you for coming up with this debate, and I want to add that since it has such a broad approach, we are now given the opportunity to see a case and an industry from several sides. I thought I'd take a look at the terms of this industry. Norway has a particular climate, which requires the industry to have a special competence. Today, we also have completely new environmental requirements, which this industry must master. In addition, this industry shall operate in a geography that requires a solution to extreme challenges. This industry has also been built on Norwegian construction products for many years, so that there is also a construction product industry for which it is important to keep an eye on. In addition, we know that our craftsmen and this industry must possess different techniques, which the unprofessional part of the industry may not master. In addition, it is important that those involved in the industry control regulations – regulations on fire, on universal design, on longevity of things, on keeping costs down, on the arrogance of the living environment, etc. All of this is a condition that requires unprofessionalism to go away. The Christian People's Party wants to support all measures that can strengthen the conditions of the industry in this way. In this work, I expect that both labour inspectorates, interest groups, trade unions and tax authorities will be involved. It also has a side that has to do with employment, that this industry is functioning in a clean way, so that the workers involved are protected. So it's this with tender criteria. We would like to support the fact that public tenders, and insofar as they are private, are required to obtain evidence that no level, no subcontractor or main contractor, is using unprofessional labour. This can be included in the tendering criteria of both county, state and local authorities. I want to add that this part is perhaps a particularly suitable field for the tax authorities to get hold of black work, because there is enough entrance for some unprofessional ones, which should be stopped. I also want to add that the municipalities are a multi-headed troll. They shall take care of approval, they shall take care of supervision, they shall take care of guidance. Then I would also encourage the municipalities to provide the necessary service to help this industry become serious, so that one in the right offices meets the flexibility and goodwill needed for people to function. We have to remember that most in this industry are perhaps small entrepreneurs, perhaps one-man companies, who need guidance to keep the course straight. Then I would also like to point out the contribution we can make in the Planning and Building Act, in regulations. There the Christian People's Party wants to help us achieve a simplification, such as: the central approval. But there are also other arrangements within the municipal administration that can help to strengthen the industry, and also to discover unprofessional relationships. Finally, I would like to mention that another aspect of this matter is that secondary education, secondary schools, must ensure a dimensionation and contact with the industry and with the market that enables us to get good apprenticeship arrangements. The Christian People's Party has been involved in strengthening the apprenticeship system, and we want to continue that. We believe that this is very important in today's work situation. So I would like to mention that the industry is also a cultural carrier, which has traditions in Norwegian craftsmanship, and that this is being taken care of. I want to commend the construction industry for addressing this issue, and I want them to experience that we politicians are listening to them and that we are facilitating good relations. Then I believe that we have a good law in Norway, we have a good regulation, but that is the practice we have to follow up, so that it conforms to the law. We want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e564	I would also like to thank the initiative of the representative of Håheim in the Workers' Party for the own-initiative debate. The seriousness of the construction industry is very demanding. It's a very unwieldy topic, and challenges are increasing. This is not least the result of the offer shock we received in Norwegian working life through the EU enlargement in 2004–2007. So it's not something that's new in the last two years, it's something that's constantly evolving, in a more and more serious direction, and it's going to undermine the Norwegian model of cleanliness, fixed employment, long-term productivity and productivity. This leads to challenges related to a serious behaviour, what becomes the job offer for skilled young people, and the extent to which Norwegian authorities are able to collect the taxes and charges imposed on workers and traders. I'll start a little bit with the word "serious". What does the word "serious" really mean? What does the word ‘unusual’ mean? It's a very demanding concept pair. One may well be doing legal business in a what I would call unprofessional way, but we know that these are grey zones in what is meant, and what is practice. Every seafaring businessman and every firm knows which companies it is a serious one. One also knows which companies are acting on the edge of or on the wrong side of the law. When it comes to seriously versus unprofessional assessment, control is a central point. Checks shall show what is lawful, versus what is illegal. So the EEA expansion has increased the number of employees enormously. Many of these are in short stays, and there is now a situation where it is issued approx. 100 000 new D-numbers per year in the public register. This is very demanding, and it is quite obvious that the Ministry of Finance has not adequately arranged for the proper taxation of foreign workers and traders for temporary stays. It's a well-known case for the department and the directorate that there's a high risk. It's a little bit of a code, sail if it's been known for a long time. And foreign traders differ in particular, because they report income mostly under-reporting and are therefore charged, among other things. additional taxes. They act as traders, while they are actually workers. With regard to taxes and taxes, it is very demanding for our authorities, because here one should, among other things, assess both Norwegian tax rules, home country tax rules and tax agreements. Our tax offices have asked for long-term simplifications, and as far as I know, there is also a reduction in a sample that would give its position in December 2014, but as far as I know, has not yet been issued. One must be able to say that the government and the Ministry of Finance are not eager to move on and get serious about this. It's a great failure sin to lie so far behind. I would like to make it quite clear from this speaker that the authorities are far, far from ensuring that seriousness is respected. So what's the reason for this? Well, it is that the level of wage and cost in Norway is much higher than in many countries around us, and we have lower unemployment in Norway than in countries around us. There are many skilled people from the EEA who want to work in Norway on pay and working conditions that are far worse than the Norwegian wage and work conditions. This gives us a tremendous challenge. For example, it provides a very large proportion of workers in the construction sector who have been hired by employment agencies. The consequence of this on the construction side is that there is a small staff in the contractors who are employed on a permanent basis, and it is difficult for skilled Norwegian youth to get permanent employment. There is a systematic pressure on the pay and work conditions, and there is a systematic pressure on the companies that want to think in the long term. The background is clear that we have had a fundamental imbalance in supply and demand for labour, and it is being pushed downwards. One shall not be particularly proficient in politics to understand that the right-wing parties want such a change in system. A wish on the part of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, such a shift of power, so that one gets changes in the working life. All those who foreshadow economic liberalism are, of course, members of this system. So it's not that much to pick up from those games when it comes to getting in front and in front and really taking this seriously. These are issues that have been discussed in the Labour and Social Committee in several contexts. In this connection, it was in the Inner East. 210 L for 2015–2016 from the Labour Party said that ‘it is a fundamental error that work of a fixed nature previously carried out by permanent staff is replaced by contracted labour from agency staff. This contributes to increased negative competition in terms of employee pay and working conditions because recruitment agencies consistently offer their employees much lower levels of safety in terms of working time, pay and job breaks. Temporary employees are contrary to hired workers after all.» – No, sorry, this was wrong, the quote is not from the Workers' Party! It is such that the Workers' Party supported what was the weakness of everything in terms of recruitment agencies, but was not interested in changing the law at the point that went under the Working Environment Act § 14-12 second paragraph. The centre party and SV were very concerned about it in order to reduce the size of crew companies. What has happened then is that there has been an answer from the State Council Anniken Hauglie of 18 April, which is very interesting, which goes on a question from me to the Council of State regarding the repeal of the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, would involve a breach of Norway's obligations under the EEA Agreement. There the Council of State is perfectly exemplary: ‘In my view, the answer to the representative’s question is no.’ Furthermore, the Council of State concludes: ‘In my view, the possible repeal of the second paragraph of Section 14-12 would not constitute a breach of Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. The main rationale for the arrangement of the rules on rental will be the same as in the past; to have a high level of protection for fixed and bipartisan employment. Here is the national action room as mentioned significant.’» This is very important. This is very important because what the Council of State now says is that it is compatible with the EEA Agreement to remove sections 14-12 of the second paragraph of the Working Environment Act, which will significantly reduce this whole problem. What is then the big challenge is how the parties deal with what the government here has responded to. The parties that want this change of system by investing in economic liberalism, I do not have so much faith in will go in to support a new proposal to repeal this paragraph of the law. But what's going to be challenging is, what's going on in the Workers' Party? Will the Workers' Party now see the practice that is developing in Norwegian working life, which is becoming more and more unwieldy, where the crew companies and crew thinking are the spearheads of a development that is becoming more and more demanding for authorities to control? Will the Workers' Party go into it? And will the Workers' Party be involved in tightening up the Working Environment Act, so that we reduce the scope of manning companies? I see that the head of the Workers' Party will have the floor afterwards, and I will challenge the leader of the Workers' Party to respond to whether someone has come so far in his recognition that we must tighten up by amending the Working Environment Act, as I have now referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e605	Construction is a very important industry which employs many, both Norwegian and foreign labour. Norway has an open economy, and after the enlargement of the EU in 2004 to 25 countries, we experienced a recovery in foreign labour, especially in the construction industry. This is the left fundamental positive to. Labour supply has been very important for the economic prosperity and growth we have seen since 2004. The European Union is Norway’s main trading partner. But we're not going to be naive to the challenges that organized criminals bring on the costs of our society, whether they're Norwegian or foreign actors. As a society, we need to meet with targeted and national instruments to stop. Organised crime has established itself in the construction industry in recent years. The background is high turnover and low detection risk. Often, what seems to be a very common and serious company is used as a skin cover for criminal activities. And often these organized criminals commit financial crime in the construction industry in combination with drug trafficking, prostitution, forced labour and other criminal acts. Criminals in the labour market take advantage of the fact that their activity tends to fall between several levels. It is difficult to identify the extent of criminal activity without extensive controls and investigations with cooperation between the agencies. Those who do not comply with Norwegian law create an action room and operating conditions legal companies are unable to compete with. There is therefore a need for a broad range of measures to address labour market crime. Preventing criminal suppliers from obtaining contracts is also a public responsibility by purchasing goods and services for over 430 billion. kr every year. I would like to show here that the Storting is now dealing with a new law on public acquisitions. I also believe that public purchasers need to improve. There are 427 different regimes for this in Kommune-Norway, and some are better than others. I believe that a community reform that strengthens the professional environment will also benefit this area. Then there is a great responsibility on the companies, which have many subcontractors. Here I would like to congratulate the Land Association of Construction, which has developed a manual to help companies in their work of selecting serious actors. The construction industry recommends that the level of care in contracting the partners in the course of the project and in the settlement of the contract be lifted. A front-end theme is the number of suppliers in the chain. In its bill on public acquisitions, the Government has made proposals to limit the number of stages in the supply chain. There is no evidence that restrictions on the number of stages in the supply chain will lead to less crime in the labour market. On the contrary, this can lead to hidden chains and trickling, and with the result that only large suppliers survive. The left will therefore put forward proposals for enhanced traceability requirements in the supply chain in order to increase the control of subcontractors. There are already good services on the market, such as: Oslo Municipality is doing a good job testing out. There has also been too much focus on pricing in public acquisitions. It is important to have cost control in the public sector, but it is necessary to ensure that contracts also respect other qualities, not only the lowest price. It is necessary to ensure that some fundamental things are in place in an offer, such as the environment, that apprentices can be used, and that suppliers are recognised apprentices. I would also like to mention specifically health, the environment and safety. I think the construction industry has a lot to learn from our oil and gas industry. There are too many tragic events involving injuries in the construction industry. In the West we have now experienced redundancies in oil and gas-related industries, while building large infrastructure projects on the road and on the road. One trend we see is that canceled HMS engineers from the oil and gas industry are now working in the construction industry. This will contribute to a status increase for HMS in the industry. It is important that public purchasers also value this in their assessment of tenders. Administrations can also make it easier to be serious, while industry control must be cross-sectoral, where several agencies work together to detect crime. The risk of being taken needs to be significantly increased. I would like to mention here specifically the Bergen Building Group with 300 companies, who have developed a collaboration with Skatt West, Kemneren in Bergen and the Labour Inspectorate. Here it is, among other things. created a tip phone. This is a cooperation that has been copied and further developed in other cities as well as elsewhere. There is no official estimate of the amount of undeclared work in the construction industry, but tax director Holte said in an interview with the Evening Post in November 2014 that there could be as much as every three kroner in the construction industry that was black. Black money is often cash, as it is difficult to track. Many people also use black money to clean up houses and thus money laundering when selling a dwelling. In one area, the industry itself points out that there is a lot of black work, namely rehabilitation, refurbishment and construction. In 2016, it is expected to be used more than 70 billion. kr on this. In our alternative state budget, the left has proposed a tax deduction for energy efficiency measures in owner-occupied dwellings, up to NOK 50 000 per dwelling. This will be a concrete measure that will stimulate the serious part of the industry. The left is also disappointed that government parties will not agree to such a solution, which would promote serious players in the construction industry, while encouraging the green shift through public procurement policy. Such a tax deduction as the Left proposed in our draft budget would also speed up energy efficiency and act as a targeted and sensible measure at a time of increasing unemployment. It is a complex theme that the Committee is raising today, and it requires a number of measures and instruments. We rely on industry itself to address this, cooperation between industry and the state, and better coordination of the control and supervision of state agencies. I feel that the serious part of the industry takes these questions very seriously. That's why I believe that we can solve them together. Then it's a little special when the previous speaker Lundtigen chooses to think that flexibility in the labour market is a problem. That, I think, is a very special input into the debate. He may even feel that the possibilities and flexibility of the systems that allow young people to enter the labour market are wrong. I don't think I'll share your answer with the representative Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e642	Perhaps the representative from the Left could take the trouble to read the letter from the construction industry, which points out that there are atypical employment and new corporate structures that develop the industry in the wrong direction. It is stated in the letter we received on 2 May 2016. The development of a labour market with much less jobs, where there is a lot of rent, where there are unclear corporate structures and companies that arise and are closed down as required, is a major problem and a contributing cause. But it's true, as many have said, that black work and social dumping did not come to the country with the Poles. It's been here all along, but it's increased because you've had increased labour immigration. What we're talking about today is a serious and big problem because it threatens the financing of the community and well-being, and it threatens pay and labour conditions and the distribution of power in the labour market, which is the most important power and money-sharing mechanism we've had in this country, and which has helped to civilize the country and make it possible to live off their jobs. That's what's threatened now. What we're talking about today is not the whole industry. It's the private market, and it's worse. We can put in place a lot of measures against public purchasers and large businesses. There is also a great deal to be done, and for example: The party of progress – and the head of the municipal committee, who is now leaving the room – was up and called for: Why not do this when the red-greens were in government? Well, we did a lot, and systematically the Progress Party voted against the measures that work. That's to say about that matter. But what we're talking about now is the private market, and that has, among other things, Fafo prepared a report from 2014, which goes through the private market and points to exactly what the construction industry says, namely that there are major problems of control and seriousness in the private market. I have had the pleasure of having a number of meetings with Oslo Crafts and Industry Association for many years, which tells me that the private market is completely gone, it is completely impossible to be in it, because it is taken over by small businesses that are not registered anywhere. There is another problem here, and that is that the Norwegian private market is very large. That's because people in Norway have a lot of good advice, and we're up and happy in our home, that's just like what many people have to do with this project. But the willingness to pay for honest work done by others has become smaller, and there is one of the problems here. What you see in the public and in the large professional market is that you push prices, as the industry says. But it also happens in the private market that you are willing to look through your fingers with what you earn in the short term. Many people also buy the cats in the bag, of course, when they discover that in the bathroom there are REMA 1000 bags as a membrane. Of course you are sitting in the mailbox with the beard. But the problem here is that you tear the foundation away from all the serious small craft companies that were supposed to have these jobs, do real work and at the same time contribute to the community through taxes and taxes. I think it's a little serious when the government spends so much time with this. And so it's not the opposition that says the government cancels out. It's the construction industry that says that the government is losing weight, it's the one that demands that we now implement the entire package in terms of the seriousness of the construction industry. There's Module 2 that's specifically mentioned, with measures for what's going under the radar today. It also applies to the introduction of an extended HMS card and the development of a national quality register. So there's reason to increase the speed of this work, and there's also reason to look at what you can pick up from the suggestions that were also contained in the Fafo report of 2014. Finally, it is correct that municipalities can and should carry out control work on this. But the question is, what kind of capacity do we also require in the budgets of the Storting to make it possible? Because it's a huge control task, which also has some legal problems, because it's inside private homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e657	The construction industry is a major and important industry with both small and large players. I know the industry that is primarily competent and serious. At the same time, industry faces major challenges. Useric companies are destroying for the serious. Black work and illegal or unlucky pay and working conditions are problems affecting employees, serious businesses and us as societies. The tax authorities, prosecution authorities and industry themselves agree that the problem is extensive. Such unprofessional activities create a number of problems. In addition to the loss of taxes and the pressure on the working conditions of the employees, I would also like to point out that non-profit enterprises are pressing out companies that operate seriously. In the event of non-compliance with Norwegian requirements, the unprofessional tenderers may submit tenders which are lower and serious undertakings find that they do not reach the competition. This is a problem both in the ROT market and for subcontractors. The cause of the problem is complex. One starting point is that there are several foreign competitors in the market. It is also pointed out by the productivity commission. The government takes seriously the challenges facing Norwegian construction industry and the labour market in terms of competition with non-profit enterprises. In January 2015, the Government therefore put forward a strategy against labour-related crime, with a number of coordinated actions. We work well with the social partners and the industries. As part of the work on the strategy, I asked in 2014 for suggestions from the construction industry. The result was the report Easy to be serious. The construction industry proposed a number of measures. Some of these measures have already been followed up and others are under assessment. A number of measures have been included in the government’s strategy against crime at work. An important measure that has been implemented is the introduction from January this year of seriousity requirements for undertakings applying for so-called ‘central approval’. The new scheme will make it easier for companies to prove that they are serious and make it easier for us consumers to choose seriously. Central approval will no longer merely show whether the undertakings are qualified. It will also show whether they pay taxes and charges, how many employees they have registered in the Register of Workers and Employers, and they will provide the HMS declaration. It will also be possible to make visible whether the enterprises are recognised as training establishments and whether they are insured. This gives the 15 000 centrally approved undertakings an advantage in competition with undertakings not having central approval. At the same time, the Directorate for Building Quality has stepped up the supervision of centrally approved undertakings. Another important measure we are considering is what can make it easier for subcontractors and ROT companies to prove that they are serious. It is important to make clear demands on businesses, but it also needs to make it easier for consumers. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, we have commissioned the Consumer Council to set up a craft portal. This will provide a simple tool for consumers to find safer companies for training jobs. For undertakings in the ROT market and subcontractors, the construction industry in the report Simplely to be serious has proposed a so-called module 2 of the central approval system. This proposal asked the Municipal and Administrative Committee of the Ministry to consider as an alternative solution. We are now waiting for an investigation from the Implementation Consulting Group, which is being delivered somewhat delayed, but will come in the next few days. The investigation shall assess Module 2 and other possible solutions. In line with the wishes of the local and administrative committee in the Innst. 359 L for 2014–2015, we consider all the instruments proposed by the construction industry in Easy to be serious. For example, major improvements are being made to the HMS card system, which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will come to a close. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that all the proposals from the construction industry are carefully assessed. Not everyone can or should be followed, at least not in the form they have in the report. In the case of work against unprofessional enterprises, it is also important to bear in mind that the solution is not necessarily the same for the problem of subcontracting and problems in the ROT market. In my own area of responsibility, I would like to point out that State Building has now limited the number of subcontractors in its projects, so that their entry prices become more transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e682	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. We essentially agree, and I think the Council of State describes the problems out there well, but the big question remains. It is whether the government will follow up with a new central approval that makes it attractive for companies to join. When a total construction industry sent a hearing response last May, they wrote the following: ‘If measures are to have the desired effect, it is necessary to see the measures in the context. [[...]] More and better coordination of supervision and control is important, but without a completely new central approval and the related measures, as we have proposed, one will not be able to achieve the objective of more seriousity.» Then my question is: does the Council have an ambition that a new central approval should also include an approval module for the ROT and subcontracting market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e694	I understand that the industry wants their proposals to be implemented as a blueprint. But it is my responsibility as the Council of State to ensure that all the proposals have good professional justification, and that we are looking for the most effective measures. That is why we have now asked for a separate assessment of Module 2 to see what is the most effective measure. That report comes - that I pointed to - in a few days. Then we will make a quick political and professional assessment of how we will follow it up. Reference must also be made to the fact that the proposals for Module 3 on a proposal for an approval scheme for undertakings drawing up private planning proposals are being followed up by the Ministry and come to Stortinget before the summer. Module 4 on the proposal to make undertakings recognised as a training establishment visible is already in place. So we work systematically with the suggestions to find the most effective, and then it starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e701	It's very good that some of these other modules now come into place. It's important and good, but that's how Module 2, as it's called, is the key to triggering the big simplification measures for the serious companies. It's the serious actors who have been very clear that this has to be in place. I understand that things take time to figure out, that details should be put in place, and that one might not go for a blueprint. But my question was about the Council of State and this government has the ambition to introduce an authorisation system for the ROT and subcontracting markets, which we know is one of the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e708	My ambition is to take effective action that works. That's why we're now assessing the follow-up to Module 2. I am absolutely convinced that the representative would have criticised the Council of State if we had initiated the proposal without it having been properly professionally assessed. It's absolutely crucial. We must ensure that the proposal contributes to simplification and not to red tape. That is why it is on my shoulders to ensure that we get good professional judgements, and that we take action that works. I would also like to point out that in the proposal to amend the rules on public procurement, we are also making changes in the number of subcontractors. There is also an action that works. This is what the representative, Lundteg, was in a complicated area, where action needs to be seen in the context, but which also works independently.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e715	It is good that the government will introduce measures that work, and I understand that it has to be investigated. But it's been two years since the construction industry put forward these desires. It was one year ago that the Storting stressed the need for these measures to be seen in the context. Then I have another question for the Council of State. As regards the property registration scheme, which has also been proposed by the construction industry, precisely in order to enable the non-applicable measures to be monitored. It was to be investigated during 2016, the municipal committee ordered a year ago. It would have been nice if the council could say something about the progress there. Are there investigations ongoing, and do you have an ambition to also introduce the type of registration system that makes the supervisory authorities actually know what is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e722	Let me first stress that it's been two years since I asked the industry to make recordings. The report Easily to be serious came after I took the initiative in the construction industry, and I also gave the industry credit for going together. This is the first time that they themselves stressed that the industry was united on proposals. Then we follow up the proposals, one by one, but we have to keep looking for the most effective measures. With regard to the proposal on registration obligations for works with a value above 1⁄2 G, the representative also points to a proposal that we consider. Then we also want to see if it's going to happen under public or private law. We're not convinced that the matrix See property is the right place to do it. These are common components that can be used, but not necessarily the place where it should be registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e729	As I said in my post, the word "serious" is a very demanding word. The opposite of serious is unprofessional, and my first question to the Council of State is, Is it that unprofessional is the same thing as being illegal? Then we can get the edge up a little bit. So to the next one. The Council of State says that one should have more supervision and control, and I agree that it is important, but it is well that the cellar is more competent than the one that controls. We have experience in the fact that the basement is more creative, so that a long time is running late, and that leads to an enormous bureaucracy and an enormous cost for the public to constantly control and run over. What's common is to take the matter at the root; change the framework conditions, so that you don't run so much with control and supervision. My last question is: Is it the government's assessment that there is an advantage for fewer staff members in the employment agencies – something that will facilitate the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e736	The representative will know that the bulk of the population wants flexibility in working life. It is important that we have good competition, that is good for consumers. At the same time, we need effective measures to combat the unprofessional. I can agree with the representative Lundtigen that it is demanding to give a full concept of a serious company, but let me say that serious companies pay taxes, they pay taxes, they deal with laws and regulations and the standards that we have in Norway. Usery companies, which regulate the law, contribute to pressing out the serious issues. Then it also has to be easier for us as consumers to choose serious companies. That is why we are now developing a craft portal together with the Consumer Council. And as far as supervision is concerned, we have already established a coordinated and coordinated supervision from Nav, the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. It is effective when the agencies cooperate on supervisory tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e743	I thank you for your answer. I understood that a serious company is one that stays within the law. An unprofessional company is one that stays out of it. That means that we should really talk about legal companies – or legal business and illegal business. It would have been easier to practice. So for flexibility in the working life. We have always had flexibility in working life and in business. You have to have it. That is why we have temporary jobs to take up a stoppage. There, crew companies can be used in the same way as other temporary employees. But what's the big challenge is that manning companies can be used to do normal work, which means that they are the manning companies that are soon the main emphasis of the labour force in the construction of central companies. Doesn't the Council of State see it as a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e750	I believe that it is an advantage that as many employees as possible are permanently employed. What was a challenge under the red-green regime was among other things. There were so many restrictions on temporary employment that recruitment companies grew and increased in number. For us, it is important that we have permanent employment as a general rule, but we also need flexibility in the labour market, and that contributes both to the possibility of limited temporary employment and the recruitment agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e756	The way in which working life is structured has been said to have much to say, but what this report, ‘Seriousness in the construction industry’, points out is that there are authorisation schemes in the ROT and subcontracting markets that are in a way the key, that is, that you should be able to have approved enterprises. The industry is told by the industry that they are very anxious to reduce the authorisation of unaccounted enterprises to a voluntary entry into a consumer portal, without any justification. It's just the approval that this is a serious company, which is important. Simple simplification and red tape are important, but sometimes some such mechanisms are needed to avoid unprofessionalism and social dumping. And then the question is, what does the Council of State think is the worst – that there are some bureaucrats who arrange approval, or that this unprofessional market is growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e763	I believe that we have to get to both – we have to get to simplification, while at the same time getting to arrangements that contribute to more seriousness in the industry. Therefore, it is not possible to just take a blue copy of suggestions from the industry. We also need to assess whether this is the best and most effective solution on a professional basis. I think it is great that the Storting is impatient about this, but I am convinced that if we had not made thorough, proper assessments in this area, it would also have been criticised. So here we have to wait for this investigation to come – it will come in a few days – and then we will make an assessment of which proposals are effective in the fight against the unprofessional in the ROT market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e770	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e773	With over 50000 enterprises, the construction industry is an industry of great importance for the construction and development of the country. The industry is also among the largest in terms of the number of jobs. About 220 000 people are employed in construction, plus hired workers and self-employed persons. Activities provide training to some 5000 young people who have chosen to become apprentices in construction. Working conditions in the industry are of great importance to many people. But the challenges are significant, as more people have been here today. On average, twelve accidents of death occur annually in the industry. The risk of damage and accidents is about 50 pst. higher in the construction sector than in the labour market as a whole. The most vulnerable are young and foreign workers. The police report that criminal actors establish activities in parts of the construction industry. Because many customers accept black economy, there are great opportunities to run this kind of anti-competitive business. Fortunately, the construction industry itself expresses the great need for control and cooperation with the police and control authorities. Over more than a decade, the Land Association of Construction has had dialogue with the authorities through its serious forum. A few years ago, the industry took the initiative in working together to deal with the number of injuries and accidents. It has resulted in an HMS cooperation on a charter for a harmless construction industry. The Labour Inspectorate is actively involved in the follow-up. The government cooperates with the social partners on the follow-up to the strategy against labour crime. The Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax administration have established five co-located units around the country. Control in the construction industry has been a priority. A total of more than 5000 business supervision was carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. Nearly half of the supervision of wage and salary relationships revealed that wages and salaries were not paid according to the level of public tariff agreements. The tax rate reports that the construction industry is the industry with the largest share of notifications, increased additional taxes and the highest level of detection of breaches of tax rules. Another part of the fight against crime at work relates to public acquisitions. If the Storting adopts the proposed changes to the government’s law, provisions will be introduced limiting the contract chain to two levels of subcontractors in public works contracts. There will also be requirements for the use of apprentices on specific projects, which were also submitted by the Minister of State. The same requirements shall apply to Norwegian and foreign suppliers. Everyone who works in the construction industry must carry a so-called HMS card, which many people have been in today. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in the process of strengthening the HMS card system in these days. These are changes that the construction industry has been concerned with and the changes are part of the government’s strategy against the crime of working life. We set up a system where the local HMS actors on the construction site can carry out so-called real-time checks of HMS cards. This will provide actors with up-to-date information from public registers on the validity of the HMS cards. This amendment strengthens cooperation between the authorities and the parties involved in the construction industry in order to ensure the seriousness and fight against the crime of working life. Finally, I will again stress the seriousness of the challenges you face in parts of the construction industry. It is primarily a responsibility for the contracting entities and employers to ensure that it is operated in accordance with legislation and regulations. Contracting entities are obliged to ensure compliance with the pay and working conditions of the construction industry. The builder is obliged to inform his suppliers of the requirements that apply. There is nothing that undermines a serious construction industry more than contracting entities that ignores legal requirements and the consideration of decent working conditions in their search for the cheapest possible deliveries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e795	To the report Easily to be serious: it is as many as have been involved here, extremely wide-ranging, and I must say, after the Workers' Party's assessment, very professionally composed. It describes, related to Module 2, a link between HMS cards, central approval and the possibility of exercising supplementary supervision. A number of elements are also requested where the Council of State now certifies readability in real time, but also that it should contain qualification requirements, be personal and that it should be a prerequisite for central recognition. And when the cards are in place, and the central approval is given, the great carrot for the industry is that one can consider that the duty of care and control is fulfilled. Does the Council of State agree that this would represent a simplification, and does she think it is worth pursuing in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e800	The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation now replied to what was at issue with the central approval systems. As for the changes in the HMS card system, as I said in my post, it's working. It's being tested out in these days, and we expect it to be in place during the month of May. This means that everyone in the construction industry is given HMS cards that they are to carry and that provide correct information here and now. They will come in the month of May after they have been tested out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e807	State Council Sanner responded to something, but it is nevertheless that many elements are closely linked here, and they go across the board's responsibilities. It has been specifically requested that the HMS card should also contain qualifications for each employee and that enterprises included in Module 2 of the ROT and subcontracting market must have employees with approved qualifications in order to be part of any new central recognition legislation. By doing those checks in advance, they can consider a number of things to be queried, namely the obligation to look after and the obligation to contract, and that is what I ask the Council of State: Can she imagine including even more elements in the HMS card, so that it can function as a trigger key also for a central authorisation code?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e812	It is difficult to answer on a standing basis about any new elements to be included in the HMS card, but in order to be issued with HMS cards today, the enterprises and employees must be registered in the Register of Units, the Register of People, the Register of Employers and Employees, the Register of Value Added Tax, the Register of Manning Companies and the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs. So there's a lot to go into that card today, and if you're also going to get the employee's qualifications, I can't answer on the standing foot. But the most important thing is that the card is exhaustive, or that it is as exhaustive as necessary, in order to exercise good control over the employees who are on the individual construction site.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e817	This card is also central to what the construction industry as a whole wants to achieve, and that it contains qualifications, and also that it can be personal and follow the worker, is important, precisely because the company can then demonstrate that it has a qualified worker, who is centrally approved and therefore included in the central approval register. Having done these things in advance, a great deal of simplification is needed, namely that you can consider the duty of care and control to be carried out. As it's described to us, this is the big carrot for the industry to be involved in this, and a big motivator for getting more people in and wanting more people to be involved. The Council of State has shown several elements that are already in the map, but I just want to encourage this to be included in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e824	With regard to qualifications, I am aware that this is something that the industry itself has been concerned about. This is under another department, and is under investigation there, so that's why I say I should be careful to conclude with it now. In that case, this is something that the Ministry of Knowledge will come back to once they have investigated this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e830	I am pleased that the Council of State points out the fact that construction has the largest proportion of notifications, that it underlines the seriousness of the situation – underlines the seriousness of the contracting entity and of the employer, who will ensure compliance with the rules – and that it is serious when legal requirements are ignored. I agree with that, but I think that the Council of State is putting too much responsibility on the employer and the contracting entity, because what is probably a fact is that the legislation is so complicated and has so many opportunities for circumvention that the companies that are being put here to practice it do not know their poor advice. Shouldn't it be a priority task for the government to simplify it, among other things. in the case of associations? Foreign traders may register as a sea-going trader, obtain a D-number in the Brønnøsund registers without appearing. Isn't the obvious thing that needs to be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e835	I want to strongly distance myself from not taking these issues seriously. And we're going to do it to the highest degree. Among other things, we have develop an offensive strategy against the crime of working life, which is to take those who are unprofessional – the national actors or the international actors who come to Norway. I stand by the fact that it is the actors themselves who have a primary responsibility to operate seriously and to ensure that the laws and regulations are followed. Yes, it may be that the legislation is complicated, that it should be further simplified. We also work with simplification, but the characteristic of many of the unprofessionals is not that the legislation is too complicated, but that they deliberately fail to follow it, and that's what we want to defeat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e842	The word ‘strategy’ has become a mantra in this room. It's used all the time, it's used without a definition of what strategy is. A democratic strategy is a common sense of reality; it is nothing more. What is needed is action, action is needed, and I want to say that after this answer, I think there will be too little responsibility on the public – which facilitates legislation that is simple and verifiable. There will be reports that will show that this is a huge problem because it is so demanding also for the state's own agencies to collect taxes and taxes. How can private enterprises or private sponsors do this when the State does not manage to collect taxes under tax agreements, Norwegian tax law and foreign tax law? Isn't that a recognition that the government now has to take over with the greatest seriousness?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e847	The main approach to the government in the fight against crime at work is to make it more difficult for those who knowingly and willfully break the law and make it easier for those who want to be serious. The levels of cooperation against labour crime have also largely followed up the private market. For example, the co-located Stavanger unit has contributed to the loss of the ability of 24 criminal actors to operate. I know that in Trondheim you are now preparing for the occupation of unprofessional stone builders, who have been a problem there. You know that they come in summer, and the co-located unit is now arming itself against it. We will make it easier for consumers to find serious actors through what the municipal minister said, the establishment of a craftsman's portal. An investigation has also been launched that the system of tax certificates can be improved and that the tax certificates become valid in real time. So there are a number of measures to make it easier for consumers and authorities to take the unprofessional ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e852	Governments mentioned apprentices and several challenges in the construction industry in their contributions. Then I would like to remind you that last week the government parties and the Left voted down a proposal from the SV to base the Telemarks model on public acquisitions. It would ensure that companies competing for public contracts were also required to have apprentices. As I said, the parties to the Government and the Left voted in favour of the proposal. Why does the Council of State not want to make clear demands that enterprises entrusted with public tasks by public means should have apprentices and thus ensure the seriousness and future of the profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e857	The government has already proposed to Stortinget changes in the procurement law that require, as I mentioned, the number of stages in the contract chain – in order to have more control over subcontractors – and requirements for the use of apprentices in public projects. It's precisely because you want to use the purchasing power you have to force through the use of apprentices. We know that will favor the serious, and that will weaken the possibility of the unprofessional. This is the initiative that municipalities have taken – Telemark is one state, Oslo has had the same for one per year. The reason is precisely, as I said, that you want to use your consumer power to demand apprentices, and that it will favor those seriously. This is something the government is already doing. That is, as far as I know, for treatment in Stortinget, and I expect full support from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e867	The construction industry is important for Norway, both in terms of value creation and – not least – employment. It is this industry that physically builds Norway — building roads, homes and schools. We rely on it to provide well-functioning construction and infrastructure to businesses, public enterprises and individuals, in short, that everything it builds, is sustainable, stands over time and is of high quality. We know that this industry is going to be incredibly important to us in the years that are coming. We're getting older, we're becoming more people in the country, more people live in the city, and more refugees are to be settled. Everything we're going to build in this country is going to happen within climate-tolerant frameworks. It's going to make demands on us. Then the signs we see in this market are alarming. In the hospitals, we don't house ourselves in such a way that we put unskilled people to operate the patients and then let the surgeons check the results. Nor do we focus on improving efficiency by encouraging a race towards the bottom of employment and solutions. And we do not waste considerable sums on work that have to be done again, and of which taxes are never paid. Nevertheless, it is along these lines that we are now seeing progress in the construction industry. The industry itself has been calling for warnings in recent years, and it says that development continues to go in the wrong direction. The estimates show that we can lack almost 100,000 skilled workers in 20 years. If this had been in the field of medicine, we would have called the national alarm too long, and we would have acted along many axes. Now, when we're going to build Norway, we need more skilled skilled workers. Then we have to do much more to combat social dumping, black economy and criminal actors than this government is doing in practice. It's about what signals go to young people about what career choices they're going to make in their lives. There are strong forces that push for cuts in wages, weaker standards, weaker rights and more temporaryity. The unprofessional actors have repeatedly shown that they are quick to adapt to such a market. That is why we need ongoing and active efforts to combat social dumping and crime at work, and we need to strengthen our first-line defence. That defence agency is called a serious tripartite cooperation, not least a strong and present trade movement – a trade movement that can also recruit those entering the labour market from other countries and get them into the serious labour market. Let me pay particular tribute to what I myself have been and seen both in the workplace and in other meetings: the initiative that the BNL and the Joint Confederation have taken together for a serious labour market. There's tripartite cooperation at best. Now it's up to the authorities to deliver. I heard State Council Sanner say that he would follow up on the different points. That's good, and we'll follow that closely. I also heard State Council Hauglie talk about the importance of contracting entities having obligations. The thing is, the duties must lead to action, and the duties must be understood in a way that gives action. And as the representative Lundtigen said, if it's the way this code is so complex and so open to adjustments for the unprofessional, then that's wrong. Then it has to be simplified and done properly. In our opinion, the government is also spending too much time putting the whole of the new central approval system in place. It has the power to come from the actors themselves and has that legitimacy. So if we're going to get some way towards social dumping, we have to make it harder to be unprofessional and simpler to be serious. It's a nice slogan, but it has to be followed up with action, for example. along the lines of the proposed Module 2 and it must be done in such a way that it actually works. There I think the government should expect the Storting to be impatient, because there's a lot at stake here. A total construction industry is behind the proposal for a new central approval. Both employers and employees agree on the requirements to make it easier to be serious. It is good that the council says he will evaluate this properly before he goes to action, but now I think it is getting closer to overtime. Finally, the Labour Party has taken the initiative of a fourth action plan on social dumping. We prioritised this high when we were in government. In the budget for this year, we have proposed to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, to expand the system of regional protection agencies and to set up several centres against the crime of working life. Several actors need to work together in order to succeed in the fight against unprofessionalism and crime at work. The government has proposed good measures. We support them, but we need more. We must promote, not weaken organized working life, especially at a time of 135 000 unemployed, many of them in this industry. Then it is particularly important that we make sure that it is not the unprofessional who win, in a tough competition for the tenders. For the Workers' Party, this is a floor plank. We're going to have an organized and serious work life, and we're going to do everything we can to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e893	I would like to thank the Municipal and Administrative Committee for this own-initiative debate. It is important that we work across both committees and parties to promote a decent working life and to combat social dumping. Unfortunately, in the construction industry there have been several examples of non-compliance with laws and regulations, with the result that both black workers and underpaid workers have been seen. Sometimes it is also difficult to know who is responsible when something goes wrong, because the industry often operates with several subcontractors and unfair lines of responsibility. My locality, Budstikka, has over time made several reports about a young man who got his life ruined when he worked on demolition work on a housing project. The 22-year-old Ramunas from Lithuania was injured after being involved in an accident at work in a lift. His salary was $19 an hour. It turned out that Ramunas’ employer operated on two contracts. According to the Norwegian contract, the Lithuanian had NOK 163 per hour, but the actual hourly payment was only a fraction of that. When the accident occurred, it was found that he was not insured either. The compensation case has gone back and forth, and who is responsible has been difficult to find out. Labour and social dumping are serious and must be combated because they exploit workers such as Ramunas and because this threatens the welfare of the country. The government takes this very seriously and, in cooperation with the social partners, has developed a strategy against the crime of working life, which has received very many positive feedback. Cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is important in order to ensure serious employment and decent working life. Fortunately, there is cross-political agreement in this Chamber that we want the unprofitable businesses to be alive. User-friendly actors challenge and destroy the serious and more legitimate part of working life. This threatens the Norwegian model, both in the event of a loss of tax revenue and in the event of such a fundamental value in working life that it is trusted. The construction industry itself has taken on board the fact that it needs to be easier to be serious in the construction industry, and has made a number of proposals that we have heard that the government is assessing and investigating. What is also important to say is that it is important not to expose serious actors to new requirements and obligations through increased legislation unless it takes place where there is a need for tightening up. The measures must be targeted, so that they hit those we want out. Tripartite sectoral programmes have been important in the fight against unprofessionalism. In 2012, a tripartite sector programme started in the clean-up sector, and from 2014 there have also been industry programmes in the outdoor and transport sectors. The government is working specifically to overcome the crime of working life and social dumping. There is a need for broad mobilization throughout the world of work, and an important measure is to strengthen cooperation between official controls. Joint actions and closer cooperation between the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate have been followed up. This government has provided funds for better coordination and co-located units to combat labour-life crime. In 2015, units were established in the cities of Bergen, Stavanger and Oslo. Last week a new centre was opened in Trondheim. At these centres, employees from the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax department work together to carry out supervision, joint guidance and control of selected industries. The feedback is that these are effective measures. If we are to succeed, the fight against social dumping and the crime of working life must be multidisciplinary, cross-political and cross-economic. In conclusion, I would like to say that the debate on a serious and decent working life does not need to be as polarized as I often think the opposition is putting up. It is not constructive that opinions and attitudes are added in debates and public vocabulary in which one is not familiar. We do not have to agree on all the detailed measures, but we need to cooperate. There is a cross-political consensus to clear the path of unprofessional actors and bring social dumping and labour-life crime to life. Therefore, we should strive to allow the good consensus tradition with which we have experience to prevail in the fight for a clean and serious working life. The fight against undeclared work and labour crime must be waged over and over again, with ever-increasing instruments, and if we are to succeed in this work, we are dependent on governments, the social partners and businesses being united.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e912	First, I would like to thank the Municipal and Administrative Committee for putting this important theme on the agenda. The theme is highly topical, and it is important for many companies and too many employees. That this is a topical issue, so we saw last week when the Stortinget dealt with a matter from the Labour and Social Committee on decent working life, which also shows that this is a topic that affects several committees of Trustees. We saw in the debate last week and also in the debate today that it is a great commitment from all the political parties. Across party boundaries and policy lines, the issue is agreed on, but of course there can be disagreements about several instruments and which of the instruments work best. I am pleased that the government has already put in place many instruments. They have been strengthened, among other things: Labour inspectorate and have helped to improve the situation. It is clear that unemployment in parts of Europe has given Norway opportunities, but also challenges. Most of those who have come here have contributed positively. They contribute their skills and workforce in industries and in activities that need them. It's a win-win situation. But at the same time, it also brings some challenges, as we see now. We see that unemployment in Norway is increasing in some regions and in some industries. This also affects the construction industry to a large and increasing extent, because when it becomes a job-dryer in some parts of the country while we have growth in other parts of the country, this is felt strongly. Suppliers must change, contractors must relate to different prices and delivery times, and workers must consider moving. In an economy in transition, some employers will be tempted to make laws and regulations and in some cases, unfortunately, actively seek to circumvent them. In the construction industry, there are a number of tools that can be used to ensure seriousness, to ensure a level playing field and not least to ensure employees. The most important is the local declaration of responsibility, central recognition and competence requirements. These are also areas where the government has delivered well. It is important that central and local authorities are able to use these tools in such a way that we actually achieve what we want. Another important tool against labour crime is the coordinated efforts of the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the UDI and the police. They counteract unprofessionalism, social dumping and crime in working life through an instrument that maximises its impact. But we have also had proposals that could contribute, which unfortunately have been voted down in this Chamber. It's no secret that the Progress Party wants an investigation of a national minimum wage, which trade unions in other countries are very strong followers of. The party of progress is of the belief that it would make control easier, and it would reduce the challenge of social dumping, but unfortunately a majority in this room did not want to go in and at least get this tool that we believe could have had a great effect. We all agree that we should have a decent labour market, we all agree that illegalities and unprofessional actors must be combated, and we all agree that a broad and coordinated effort is required to achieve the objectives. That is why I am pleased that the government platform highlights the work against social dumping as a priority in labour policy. I also think it is a pity that some of the polarising debate that was also going on in the previous speeches, because we share the issue, but some of the instruments we disagree with. Fortunately, we have a government that has delivered well on this, and I look forward to further deliveries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e929	I also want to thank for the initiative for this debate – a very important debate, which makes sense to take across the committees and give it the full picture. I do not think we have received a good enough answer as to why it takes so long to establish a central approval. I think it's strange that the government actually won't make it easier to be serious faster than what you add up to here. For what is the situation? Well, it's that the number is clear. The experience of social dumping, unprofessionalism and labour crime is too many, and professionalism may be at stake. It is a serious situation, and then I think it is serious that the government does not show the will to take greater action in time. Last week the bulk of the population voted down a proposal that SV had made on, among other things. to introduce the so-called Telemarks public procurement model and also to stop unprofessional operators and prevent the misuse of rentals by strengthening the influence of trade unions. As I said, the proposal was voted down in spite of the fact that several, in fact all, parties, pointed out that the proposal dealt with an important topic, that unprofessionalism and social dumping had to be combated. Now we see that there's a difference between seeing a problem and wanting to do something about it. The representative Njåstad recalled that unprofessionalism is not a new phenomenon, that nothing has come in the last few years, and we agree with that. We know that very, very well. That was also why the red-green government promoted three measures against social dumping, and that is why we keep the pressure on the matter. But it's about being in front, and it's about acting – in a double sense. This was also the reason why SV promoted the proposal on the Telemarks model – in order to promote seriousness and to prevent public funds from undermining a good and tidy working life. The Telemarks model originates from Skien, where the municipality discovered serious violations of pay and working conditions in its own construction sites. Therefore, the municipality demanded that all work be done, that all work be done by permanent employees of the contractors, that no entrepreneurship chain be longer than two points, that more than half of those involved in the projects should have a letter of formal notice, and that the enterprises should have apprentices. These requirements have been developed by the municipality, the Joint Confederation and the NHO in common, and they work. The Telemarks model goes one step further and requires, among other things: rents are to be paid on a fixed basis between hire and reward contracts of rental companies. Several municipalities and several counties have introduced the model, and although there is a cross-political consensus on that very thing in most places, the government parties and the Left chose to prevent that kind of public procurement requirement. I think that's unprofessional, all the time it's actually an explicit goal to combat unprofessionalism. The industry stands together to impose demands, both on the employer and on the employee, both on the National Association of Construction and on the Joint Confederation, see the need for a clearer approach than is currently being taken. It is a very good starting point for getting something done, to ensure the action needed, in a precise way, to ensure that the figures and wage developments in the industry can point in a different direction, and that lessons are drawn from the experience of social dumping, by making clearer demands. Should competition only take place at price, yes, then the spiral will continue to go down. We must ensure that proud professional traditions continue to have a future, and that young people applying for construction have a place to learn. Then we have to be clear that it is not enough just to make demands on the main contractors and let them define the way further. There has to be an inevitable demand for apprentices, and we have to take a central hold. I feel that is the most important thing that is requested here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e949	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e952	I would like to include myself in the range of those who thank you for the initiative debate. It is precisely this kind of serious, big, wide-ranging issue that this form of debate fits well. I think what we have heard here today is evidence of a very constructive opposition, and I am pleased that there has been agreement in the committee to contribute to this debate being raised. As someone has said in the past, there is nothing new about social dumping in Norwegian society. It was also the situation when the previous government was responsible. That was also why the previous government put forward a number of plans. As Mr Støre said, three plans for action against social dumping. But then there's some political difference here. For what I learned, and as other experiences that were responsible for this matter during that period, was that many of the proposals for measures that the government initiated in cooperation with the parties, they voted against the Right and the Progress Party in the United Kingdom. There was solidarity, which is now being hailed as a good instrument, with regard to transparency, for many of the measures. So, for us, the fight against social dumping was also a fight against the Right and the Advance Party in the Stortinget. But then it is good that the government later did not go away from all the instruments they have voted against. And I'm glad it started – I think it was in 2011 – more coordinated action and control from the different state levels. I am pleased that the government is following up and building further. But our experience is that the government parties must be run from chance to chance. At an early stage in this period, we presented 22 measures to combat social dumping. They were developed in close cooperation with the NHO and LO, the National Association of Construction and the Joint Confederation. The parties to the Government voted against. We have made proposals in budgets, in revised budgets, and last week also on the initiative of the SV in a discussion on 12 proposals we agreed on. The common denominator has been that the government is struggling. But then we see that there is a partial demand for apprenticeship places, for example. among those who have tenders. So it turns out that in some areas the government is coming after. I also hope that they will do so with regard to the requirement of the National Association of Construction and the Joint Confederation, and a relatively comprehensive debate in the Grand Chamber, that the measures requested – including in the ROT market – are now effectively followed up in the future, so that they can be as they ask: easier to be serious. So it's an important debate. All the experience shows that the government needs to be pressed, that we – the opposition – do it together with the social partners. Then we're going to hope that we're in a situation where the Council of State can also later say that something has been initiated... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e965	Housing is a necessary well-being in line with work, health and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. Norwegian housing policies have been successful for the wider population. The centre party believes that the Norwegian tradition in which the largest possible owner of his own home has contributed to a high standard of living. Therefore, the Centre Party will protect the development of the self-ownership line in Norwegian housing policy. The seriousness of the construction industry is a prerequisite for confidence in housing policy. Here, policies and market forces are more closely linked than in many other welfare areas. Others have referred to the construction industry's own initiative for a serious construction industry through the report Simple to be serious, on which the employee and employer sides were united. Although some of the measures proposed have been followed up by the government, I know that the industry believes that there is still a need for efforts to build an industry that works white and not black, thinking about health, the environment and safety, not just on the fastest possible profit. From the centre party we have thought that ROT deductions, or tax deductions for rehabilitation and refurbishment, can be the way to go. It can contribute to investment in energy-saving construction, while having experience from Sweden, where we know that it is an effective response to black work. There are also other assumptions in the housing market that need to be addressed by policy measures. Many disadvantaged people in the housing market have to be assisted in getting owner-occupied housing. In some urban areas there is a strong price pressure, which poses challenges for young people to get into the housing market. When production is smaller than demand, the industry becomes interesting for unprofessional players, who do not give priority to orderly employment, safety or quality. The decline in productivity in the industry is due to slurry and considerable duplication of work, high levels of unskilled, lack of knowledge of health, environment and safety, planning and building law, lack of language skills, etc. It's expensive for the industry, it's expensive for the consumer and it's expensive for society. These challenges are increasing with the size of the municipality. This is primarily a major urban problem. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs referred to the municipality of Trondheim, where there has been a problem in the quarrying industry. In small municipalities, the situation is more transparent and localised, they have a better overview and it is easier to discover unprofessional companies. There is reason to fear that the local reform will lead to a decline in local knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e978	The industry we are discussing today is in a critical situation. There will be no less crime in the industry, there will be more crime in the industry. I have to remind the representative Njåstad of the Progress Party and others that there is an overall construction industry behind the proposal for a new central approval. Both employers and employees agree on the need to make it easier to be serious. Now the government has to deliver on it. In fact, whether you like it or not, on the Advance Party and the Right Guard, these problems and challenges are increasing. At a time of record unemployment, which in itself is a tragedy, there is also the danger that the unprofessional actors will hire people without proper pay and employment. It is also part of further undermining those who operate seriously, and not least exploit those people who desperately want a job. We in the Workers' Party believe that control and supervision are important, but that is not enough. In the Rogaland County Municipality, where the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre are now ruling, it has recently been decided to strengthen the Diffi model for tenders, such as: limits subcontracting to one paragraph. It shall increase the proportion of apprentices in the tender and the proportion of skilled persons. They do this because they think the diffi model is too weak in these areas. All suppliers shall be pre-qualified on this basis before price and quality of delivery are assessed. They have done this because they themselves have revealed social dumping in themselves. We are now probably facing a major disclosure of social dumping in connection with a large bid for Ryfast in Rogaland. This shows something about the seriousness of the situation. NHO gathered not long ago all its craft companies. They tell me that of about 8 billion. kr in the annual insurance statement pays the insurance companies 4 billion. kr in cash settlement. These are payable without VAT. So they have to apply to get the VAT back, and last year only 148 wanted to get the VAT back. Is this a practice we can live with? Is this not indirectly stimulating black work? We need to continue to strengthen the apprenticeship system. It is a simple measure that provides many serious companies with better access to good craftsmen and a safe route of education for our kids. Yes, there may be cross-political agreement on the description of the situation, but there is disagreement about the measures, and there is disagreement about the speed. We don't have time to wait any longer. Now the government has to deal with this and get it sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e989	I will also be allowed to take the opportunity to thank the representative Håheim and the committee for putting this on the agenda. It's an important area. Today, we are discussing this issue a little from the point of view of this report from the BNL, which is simple to be serious, but I would also like to stress that here are the measures in which other parts of the government's responsibilities also have the opportunity to influence. In the Financial Committee, we have worked on ownership registers, and here too, we feel that the government spends a long time on something that could take less time and that would have an impact on this area as well. There has been a long fight from many teams to gain transparency in shareholder registers. Neither is the government a driver of transparency, and the government has also chosen to make the tax lists more closed than they were before. It's clear that the combination of these three things that I'm referring to here, with a high degree of transparency, would also make the transparency of the industry that we're talking about today, easier accessible and better. I had a question for Sanner in the back of the room, because I got the impression after his posts and Mudasar Kapur's posts that insurance was part of the central approval today for the professional market. Governments have clarified this to me, and it turns out that there is a voluntary scheme, it is voluntary to make insurance information available. The BNL has written a letter to us where they bring this forward, among several other things, which they believe is a problem not to make demands in the system. So I want to encourage the Council of States: when it's possible to add this voluntarily today, and there's a scheme that's voluntary, let's make it a part of what you have to submit, if you're actually going to be in the scheme. I think that would be an advantage. State Council Sanner said that there was a need for professional evaluations, and I assume that he might then mean the department's own assessments, because I would say that the report presented here is a broad, complex and highly professionally complex sample, and it is highly professionally justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1000	I took a talk with the Joint Union in Eastfold now before the debate, and they have a lot to tell about what they experience in different construction sites, for example. in Eastfold. They're payrolls at the Eastern European level, they're telling us that employees have a salary of $9 an hour, unprofessionalism and social dumping, which is widespread. In a major construction project in Eastfold recently, the Joint Confederation also believes that it has uncovered so-called pay-back schemes, i.e. schemes that require the employee to pay back a large proportion of the hourly salary in order to allow him to be there and work. They came across construction sites where Polish construction workers had working days of up to 16 hours, of course they didn't get any overtime pay, and they initially had an hour's wage that we need decades back to figure out here in Norway. Then the Joint Alliance also tells them that they get phones where the messages are unique and summarized quite briefly with: «Boss gone, no money». So it wasn't just the boss who had disappeared, but the whole company was gone. These are pure mafia methods, and this has to be cleaned up. Individual enterprises have also increased strongly among non-resident workers since the publication of the collective bargaining agreement in the construction industry. Then you can ask, why did it happen like this? Well, of course, in order to circumvent the rules of generalisation. Nevertheless, the Joint Association says that the public service tool is a good tool, an important tool, one of the best things you have, but it is difficult and complicated to get. There is a comprehensive regulatory framework to be met before public disclosure can take place, and one hopes that simpler solutions can be found so that the tool can be used even better. There needs to be more, much more, to ensure that we have a serious working life, and the government could start using and implementing the measures in the report that are simple to be serious and that have been mentioned extensively here today. I hope the government is stepping up its pace and taking this debate seriously, the tool is there, and now the government should make sure that it is used. It is urgent to introduce comprehensive rules, and I hope that now you see the power of action flowing out of the government offices. I hear in the line change that something is going to happen in the next few days, and we get to believe that, right now, is going, and while we wait, the situation isn't getting much better for those who are going to run serious business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1013	In 10 years’ time, Norway may lack 90 000 skilled workers. That figure should be a wake-upr, both in education policy and, equally, in employment and social policy. If we are to get young people to choose a profession, it is as vital to ensure decent and serious working life as it is to have policies for early work or better vocational training. According to a survey of young people under 30 years of age, nine out of ten claim to view construction as an important and socially useful profession. It's very positive. But 73 pst. considers that construction subjects are of low status. In the case of electrophage, 65 pst is equivalent. The same thing and 64 pst. considers that the health profession is of low status. Compared to 80 pst. the high status of study specialisation. It shouldn't be like that, and we have to deal with the reasons why these beliefs are so common. The reason for this, according to the survey, is the concern of young people about the type of labour market they encounter after education, the concern for undeclared work, for unprofessional actors and a lot of cheap foreign labour in terms of more renting. When you are 14–15 years of age and have to make a choice about what to become — a choice for the rest of your life — you don't have to go into industries where you expect to face up to infirmity and pressure on rights and pay. Then you choose something else. Fortunately, in Norway we have social partners who take responsibility. An overall construction industry, both employers and employees, has made proposals that make it easier to be serious and more difficult to be an unprofessional operator. This is what the government has to deliver on. We cannot accept that individual companies operate as free passengers in the Norwegian model, allow others to take responsibility for ensuring the standards of working life, or leave to others to ensure the competence of the industry by allowing others to take in apprentices. If we are to have more skilled workers, the policy must be linked. The Labour Party will invest in skilled workers, in professional subjects, provide schools with up-to-date equipment for vocational training, increase support for apprenticeships and give vocational trainers a professional boost, but we also believe that the students deserve to meet a decent and safe working life when they are fully trained. A job-creation profession is in fact completely worthless if you do not simultaneously address the situation in some sectors of the labour market. Work at school and in the workplace must go hand in hand. That is why there is every reason to commend the construction industry actors who have made these proposals, and we also have every reason to support them in implementing the package of measures they have proposed – the whole package, all the measures, not just one, piece by piece and split.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1024	I noticed the experience of representative Stein Erik Lauvås of the Joint League in Eastfold – exactly the same as my experience. I would encourage more people to visit jobs, visit trade unions, visit companies, so that you get a better understanding of what is actually happening. The representative Bente Stein Mathisen says that she does not want such a polarized debate. It was also repeated by Erlend Wiborg, that there is an excessively polarized debate, because we all share the issue, but disagree on some of the instruments. I have to say that – well, if we agree, then we agree, if we disagree, then we disagree. For what is happening today is a serious confusion of the Norwegian model with permanent employment, security for work and income and a high degree of unionism. It's a fact. We have to figure out what's clear in the situation. Is the increase in temporary employment a problem? The government said no. Is the widespread use of manning companies in construction a problem? The government said no. So we don't have any common recognition, and then it's real and very nice to get a sharp debate, so we can put the different options up against each other, so that people can see who represents what. The government says there should be a general rule of fixed employment. Language is power - general means that it should be over 50 pst. It's a value-radial position to say that it has to be a general rule. We have a lot to go on then. We can go on a lot of temporaryity, we can go on a lot related to recruitment agencies, if we're going to fulfill it. We have to have a much higher level of ambition. A serious work life is based on regular employment, and therefore the Centre Party is so firm on fixed employment, and there are special, statutory reasons to get away from regular employment. If we're going to get away from it, temporary employment is necessary in some cases, and it's defined in the Working Environment Act. The use of manning agencies is the worst — it is by far the worst. When, in addition, the terms of the employment contract are that you're a permanent employee without pay between jobs, it says more than everything we're talking about here in terms of security. It is therefore important to have a strong debate. I am surprised that the representative Støre did not respond to my challenge of repealing the Working Environment Act § 14-12 second paragraph. I would then challenge the representative Dag Terje Andersen, who is the fractional leader of the Labour and Social Committee, to respond to whether the Workers' Party is still opposed to repealing the second paragraph of Section 14-12, which facilitates recruitment companies, which is one of the problems in terms of professionalism in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1035	I want to say that I think this has been a good debate. That there is disagreement in this room, I think I should just be missing in such a case. But there are still a lot of questions that we haven't received an answer to. These include: on Module 2, which is the key to the major simplifications for the serious enterprises. The representative, Kapur, said – this is a bit freely quoted: our job is to make sure that more people want to be accepted centrally. It is precisely for this reason that the opposition is now so impatient to receive an answer as to whether this government has the intention of ensuring an overall authorisation system, which can authorise enterprises throughout the contract chain and which will trigger decisive simplifications for the serious operators. We have not received an answer as to whether the government will go further with the proposal on simplified supervision, where all the supervisory authorities in a construction site are checking out some standardised things, so that they get the volume in terms of supervision. We have not received a reply as to whether we want to go further with the registration work, which is intended to give a certain overview of what is happening in the ROT market – we have not received a response to it. So that State Council Sanner a craftsman's portal. That's a good idea. The problem is that if you don't require any seriousity to get into the craftsman's portal, such a portal has very little value. If you are going to spend money on such a craftsman's portal, we think it should be linked to Module 2, so that you have assurances that those who provide these services are serious, and that you have security for it when you order. Someone on the right has been a little hurt at the fact that the opposition is impatient. I think the government should also think like that: So nice that we share goals here, and that the opposition is impatient – then we have good back coverage to get speed on the work we're going to do. But here you can see things in different ways. Then I want to say that the new, central approval proposed by the construction industry is well professionally thought out, and it has a lot of crazy advantages. We're getting fewer illegalities. We get increased tax revenue. We get better recruitment and competence in an industry we're totally dependent on. We also get better and cheaper barley. Consumers will be more confident about the purchase and sale of housing and it will be easier and safer to clean up and rehabilitate. For the industry, a complete, new and central approval will make it easier to be serious. The working party is impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1052	I am sorry to have to speak after there has been a good summary from the initiators to the debate, but there is a specific question which has been answered in the past in this Chamber. The second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act applies. I can confirm that we're not going to go in to remove it. I've confirmed that from here before, and I'll do that again. It is a conclusion we have drawn, in close cooperation with LO's management and the Joint Undertaking's management, because it is this paragraph that gives the trust-chosen influence in cases where an enterprise uses manning companies and hired labour. So I'm not going in to weaken the employee's participation in his own job. Although Lundtigen believes that one can do so without breaking the EEA Agreement, we do not, however, go in to weaken the employee's participation. I've answered that before, and now I'm done with that mass.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1061	I understand that ‘mas’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1067	The president was in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1070	President, I understand that ‘mas’ is a parliamentary expression – I didn’t think so. I take note that the Workers' Party does not want to remove the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act. I hope there can be a further debate outside this room. It is not something I have found, that this does not break the EEA Agreement, it is stated in the Council of State's own letter, and I very much appreciated the direct response from the Council of State. It's exemplary. The councils have set up a new school here by saying what it is. I will commend the Council of State for such an answer, and I hope that we will have more. It will develop a better relationship between the Center Party and the State Council if it continues, because then we're in a good tradition. Then we have clarified the Workers' Party. Then it's the right. I noticed that the Council of State Sanner said in reply that it was under the red-green that the crew companies grew, and that is quite correct. I fully agree with that, it grew to those degrees below the red-green, and the red-greens did not take it seriously enough. What's part of the problem is that since he's co-responsible for what's happened, it's hard to take a mariner's report and say that we have to stop this. I appreciated that clarification from the Sanner Council. But what was then in the Council's response is that, as a consequence of developments, the government made it possible for one to increase the possibility of using temporary employment. It was adopted. The center party was against it, but it's a fact today. Then my question is: what is the problem of repealing the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, when it does not break the EEA Agreement? We know that temporary employment, employment in a crew company is where we have the main challenge of unprofessionalism or illegalities in the workplace. When there's regular employment, it's much easier to control. It's a clear piece of legislation. It is about doing less control, and therefore my question to the Council of State Sanner, or the Council of State Hauglie here now, if not the new recognition of the EEA Agreement and at the same time that the government has facilitated the increased use of temporaryity in other paragraphs of the Working Environment Act, enable one to tighten up the use of manning companies in order to overcome some of the obscenities we are talking about here, namely, in practice illegalities in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1098	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1105	I would like to begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The Committee considers it important that the construction of the future is energy-efficient and climate-friendly. The majority of the Committee refers to the new energy requirements which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Among other things, these requirements make new buildings 20-25 pst. more energy efficient than today. Furthermore, it is no longer allowed to install and use fossil heating in new buildings. The Committee therefore points to the follow-up of the climate agreement by the government. The majority of the Committee points out that the new energy requirements came into place after a long work on thorough investigations and processes, and the construction industry is now implementing and adapting to the new requirements. As the case is now presented, there is no majority for the original proposals from the Left and the SV, but there are some other proposals that are likely to have a majority. I'll get back to it. I am now going to spend the rest of my time addressing the matter further on behalf of the Right. Let's start with a general look at the housing market. Population growth is one of several factors that have contributed to increased pressures on the housing market. There's an imbalance between supply and demand, and I don't think I'm going to budge if I assume that over the next 30 years, we have to build more than what we've done in the last 100 years to meet this growth. This pushes prices up. There is no doubt that in addition to this growth in demand, technical requirements and details that have been put on top of each other have also contributed to increased housing prices in recent years, as in a patchwork strategy of overly robust and central-management-friendly red-green politicians. Therefore, it must now be a goal for us politicians to get the building pace up and the construction costs down. We cannot regulate everything, but we can provide a policy that creates simplification and predictability for those who want to build all the dwellings. In a letter from the Council of State Sanner in connection with this case, it appears that OBOS believes that, in the construction of some apartments, they will be able to save up to NOK 60000 if they are given the opportunity to use electrical heating solutions. The new energy requirements also mean that new dwellings have a lower energy demand, and thus there is no need for heating systems as comprehensive as before. It doesn't like the Working Party. That is why they have now received the SV and the Left – and probably also the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – to support a proposal that, according to the Association of Home Producers, would make it 100 000 kroner more expensive to build an apartment of 60 m2. The representative from the Workers' Party, Stine Renate Håheim, said it is naive to believe that technical requirements have nothing to say for the price. I think it's pretty naive to mean something like that. I would also like to take the opportunity to comment in principle: we believe that it is up to the government to lay down regulations. The inclusion of the Storting and the detailed governance of regulations creates nothing but unforeseeability and uncertainty for a large industry, and it is therefore very problematic. I must say to the Labour Party, which earlier today took the initiative in a debate on a serious construction industry: I wonder if the same construction industry believes the same thing about the seriousness of the Workers' Party when they launch these kinds of unpredictable proposals. I am not going to spend time on the proposals from SV and left. They are not the majority of them, but I would like to comment on another proposal, for which there is a majority, and say why I believe that this proposal should not be adopted. Again: In the previous case, we talked about seriousity in the construction industry. But the construction industry also needs predictability from serious politicians. A number of proposals are being promoted in this matter which cause concern and, for my part, wonder. Among other things, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV have made a proposal that municipalities can also impose on new buildings to be equipped with heating systems. Such a provision will once again lead to increased construction costs, more red tape, less room for thinking about innovation and new types of construction and more binding the construction industry. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that with the increased housing prices we have now, and the pressure we see in press areas, the construction industry needs lower construction costs, so that the bill is not sent to the individual consumer, who is very often newly established, young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1138	Let me first thank the case rapporteur, who has led the matter through in the committee, and also everyone who has made contact. There has been an enormous commitment, which has helped to inform the matter. For the Workers' Party, this has been a case of severe balances, because we also recognise that it is for the government to lay down technical regulations, and we believe that it must belong to the exceptions that Stortinget changes them. But when the government makes regulations that undermine the objective of the climate agreement as a broad majority of the Stortinget, we believe that this is precisely such an exceptional case. The Workers' Party believes it is important that we have energy-efficient solutions in construction, and that our buildings help to release energy for electrification of other parts of society. By the end of 2015 Tesla had delivered 107 000 cars worldwide in recent years. In Oslo you can now look at the possibility of electric buses. That's very good. But it has been said that neither electric buses, ferries nor cars can operate on waste heat from waste incineration plants, pellets or heat pumps. When it comes to electrifying the transport sector and the socket, we think it is right to use energy sources other than direct-acting electricity where possible, and it is in our buildings. We therefore believe that it is good climate policy to make demands on the large buildings that release energy for the electrification of other parts of society. We therefore promote proposals together with the Left and SV that in buildings over 1000 m2 there still has to be a regulation of direct-acting electricity. This is a well-known requirement of the construction industry. The buildings being built today are most likely to be built according to those requirements, because these requirements have been there for a long time, at least there are recognizable requirements, and we think it is right to maintain requirements for the largest buildings. Today, municipalities have the possibility to adopt an obligation to connect to district heating plants. We think it makes sense to use the surplus energy that is in many municipalities, to heat up or cool down barley. We therefore also propose that there should still be an obligation to organise the municipality’s commitment. It's good climate policy, it's good resource use, and it's actually taking local democracy seriously. In building policy, we need to think in the long term. The buildings we're building today have to stand for generations. Then it is short-term to make the buildings completely dependent on direct electricity for heating. This is bad climate policy, and it is bad for consumers who are locked into one source of energy. Then we in the Workers' Party would like to be involved in discussing how to simplify the requirements and how we can design demands that promote innovation. We have also previously participated in removing claims under the red-green government, and with this proposal today, less than 1000 m2 of construction will have a significant relief in requirements. But I also think it is naive to think that just by removing technical requirements you will solve the situation we have in the press areas with greatly increasing housing prices. You have to solve it in other ways. That is why the Workers' Party has also made ten concrete proposals to speed up housing. This will easily be a debate on numbers, and I understand the position's desire to reproduce all the numbers that come out. During the hearing, we received examples of installing waterborne heat in ordinary apartments for the net sum of NOK 6000. We can put numbers in each other's heads, but this is about how we want our buildings to be in the future. There are also operators in the construction industry who believe that having green construction is a competitive advantage and who have had as a strategy the whole way ahead of the technical requirements. When Skanska held its Future Day conference in 2014, Tor Helge Dokka in Skanska said: ‘The projects we are working on show that it is possible to reduce costs and find better and better solutions’. He also said, ‘Should we continue, it is therefore necessary for the builders and public authorities to impose stricter requirements.’ We believe that in terms of both climate and local resource use in municipalities, it is right to have some demands. We have now decided to support the government that the square boundary can be increased to 1000 m2, but on the large buildings, the large volumes, we think it is very right to regulate the use of direct-acting electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1183	The President then perceives that the representative has taken up the proposal she herself has mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1186	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1191	The representative Stine Renate Håheim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1194	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good work – I don't know if I can use the words to get it out of the committee, because I would like to see this matter have had a different outcome from the committee. But at least it is a thorough and good job that has been done, and it has our great commitment attached to this matter. It's quite natural when it comes to housing construction and pricing, that people get engaged, and that there's something that takes more than just those who live in housing, it also occupies people most. Then there are many ways in which we could draw up this debate. The principle when it comes to the fact that the Storting wants more to go in and detailed regulations is an input to the debate. It was good to hear that the Labour Party called it an exceptional case, and that a principle would stay away from running a big business. But I thought it was a wrong case, anyway, to send the bill to those who are going to build dwellings. And it's not least those who are going to buy housing and found a family, who get this bill. Therefore, I hope that it is possible to reconsider the vision. Now there's a lot of numbers going on. If I had come with a new number now, one would certainly have turned back on it and said it wouldn't be that expensive. That's why I think we should listen a little to what others say. A press release was received yesterday from the builders, who address the responsibility directly to the Workers' Party, with the title: ‘The batch of workers makes new dwellings even more expensive. Tomorrow, the Stortinge adopts costly requirements for new dwellings». And the building builders write that tomorrow the Stortinge will most likely adopt a proposal that makes a 60 m2 apartment $100,000 more expensive. They refer to this setting, which may have a multiple today. The reason why I say 'can' is that I hope that the debate will make people think again: should we really send a bill of $100,000 that you can't show that has a direct effect, but that will make it more expensive? Or can we rather trust that the government has done a thorough job when they set regulations, and not use the Storting as the arena to set aside its sovereigns the right to set regulations? I hope that there is a party that can reconsider its point of view. And if I don't challenge them, I'd like to say if they're willing to go one more round if it turns out that the cost is $100,000 higher. Or you'd like to stand on this chair and say yes, we're going to spend $100,000 on new apartments in higher expenses because a set of requirements that you can't document has the effect you want. For our part, it's very clear that we want to let it be cheaper to build housing. That's why both the government and the majority of the population have done a lot in this period to ease demands that are costly. We've changed the Law on Planning and Building and we're going to do even more there. We've told the statesmen to give greater emphasis to local self-government, so that multiple plans can be approved, so it's possible to build more dwellings. It is very unfortunate that the bulk of the population with the Workers' Party in the head is going in the opposite direction when we are in a good trend that it is cheaper to build because government and big business facilitate it. I hope it's possible to reconsider the vision, and that we can not vote for the government to be bound by the Storting going in and controlling regulations today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1216	First of all, let me say that on several points this has been a demanding matter, even in the Christian People's Party. First of all, so it's avoided, I'd say it won't be a habit on our part that we're in favour of proposals that go into the government domain and override the regulatory level. The setting has been explained and should only be made exceptionally. Given the importance of this matter and the need for rapid clarification for the industry and for all interested parties, we believe that this is such an exceptional case. Then I would like to say that we are very satisfied with most of the new building regulations. It also has significant improvements in the climate perspective. The derogation was this with the area limit for the installation of non-direct electricity. We have a surplus of power in our country right now. But it's not that we've secured it forever. Exports of force will hopefully increase. The same applies to the electrification of a larger part of the transport. Then it makes no sense to lock a lot of the clean energy for heating. There are also good alternatives today. In larger buildings there should be a requirement for other heating solutions, such as district heating and heat pumps, to be in place, if appropriate. The 2012 climate agreement set high ambitions for energy consumption in dwellings. It is important that we do not have a setback for the competence to design, install and further develop solutions that will be much needed in the future. Right now it is more reasonable to rely on electric heating alone. During the committee's examination of this matter, we received reports on construction projects on the other side of 900 m2, which were thus just below the new limit in the regulation. We are pleased that, at least in the Committee, there was a majority in favour of allowing municipalities which have adopted the obligation of connection to district heating plants under the Law on Planning and Buildings to impose this right for new buildings to have heating facilities so that district heating can be used. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are a part of it, and I would like to inform you that, if there is no majority in favour of the original proposals in document 8:31, we too will support the proposals of the Workers' Party: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement of 60 pst. of the net heat demand for buildings above the area limit of 1000 m2 may be covered by energy supply other than direct electricity.’;» Although the original proposal would have been the ideal one, this is still an improvement in relation to today's legislation. That's because that's 60 pst. requirements above 1000 m2 will allow professional developers to choose long-term solutions from day one, which will benefit the user and society. Such a requirement, over 1000 m2, will continue to promote solutions that near-zero energy buildings are likely to need in four years. It's up to us all to think completely and prospectively if we're going to solve the climate challenges. But we have doubted this, because there is a limit – a balance – between cost, price and the good principles of environment and quality. In this case, we have doubted the point of balance which in turn makes us subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Workers' Party. So it is that actionmakers and builders have to challenge this industry and suppliers, plumbers, etc., on both price and quality, so that they become competitive with the electric heating. I think that's what they should strive for. The chairperson of the Committee has asked the question: If this does not work, are you willing to look at the matter again? I can say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we are always willing to look at and get wise solutions. So we're going to want to get back to that. But so far we have chosen to land on the balance point that means that we will support the proposal of the Labour Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1251	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1254	The Government has chosen to reduce the environmental requirements of the Construction Technical Regulation (TEK 15) by removing the requirement to cover a specific proportion of the heat demand with energy supply other than direct electricity. This will apply to a large part of the building mass. The proposal of the representatives of the Left and SV is to maintain the environmental protection requirements for heating from TEK 10. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, TEK 10 was presented to promote a more environmentally friendly construction sector and through the ambitious climate policy objectives. This built up under a broad agreement here on climate policy at Stortinget. Today's government does not want to follow up these ambitions. «The waterborne heat in new buildings becomes a mere saga», says an energy consultant to Technical Weekly on the consequences of this. I see that the government is justifying its changes to the construction regulations by achieving the goal of energy-efficient and climate-friendly construction through construction requirements and panel furnaces. They indicate that electricity for heating is cheap and environmentally efficient. A main argument, however, is the desire to reduce construction costs. It should be noted that OBOS believes that one can save NOK 60000 in construction costs for an apartment by obtaining the opportunity to rely on electrical heating solutions. The Chairman of the Committee operated with a figure of DKK 100 000. Others believe that the real extra costs are much lower. Norwegian District Heating believes that newly developed solutions will be in the order of NOK 8 000. That's a completely different number. Electric current from hydropower is environmentally friendly energy. I fully agree with the department. Nevertheless, it is not that we want to achieve ambitious climate targets by relying on hydropower to solve all of our energy challenges. There is also a need to exploit other renewable energy sources. TEK 10 introduced requirements for the establishment of waterborne heat. This has been very important for the development of district heating systems based on bioenergy, heat pumps, excess heat from cooling, solar energy, etc. It is true that it costs a little more to establish waterborne heating systems in buildings, but it is an installation cost that pays itself over a few years. The construction industry competes to deliver the cheapest dwellings in the market here and now, without particular regard to the added value of environmentally friendly solutions over time. It's an honest thing on their part. But I have to say, I am sorry that the department has listened so unilaterally to them alone, and has not listened to the very many recordings that have come from other players in the market. A coherent environmental movement and a wide range of market actors for the development and supply of non-electricity energy means that the changes in the building regulations will stop the growth we have had in recent years in the development of renewable and environmentally friendly solutions for energy supply and heating new buildings. I think that has to be taken into account. The central party supports the proposals made in the draft representative and promotes proposals in the vote in accordance with it together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV. The centre party is also part of the proposal of the majority where the Stortinget asks the government to introduce a provision so that, where local authorities have adopted a binding obligation to district heating plants, the municipality may decide that new buildings are equipped with heating systems so that district heating can be used. If the minority proposals in which we are making are not adopted, the Centre Party will subsidly support the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. We will also support proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1278	The Left believes that the 2012 climate agreement confirms that work on energy conversion and energy efficiency in construction will continue, including: by tightening up the energy requirements of the building technical regulation. On 17 November 2015, the government of Solberg presented new energy requirements for passive houses, which will apply from 1 January 2016 with a one-year transitional period. These requirements imply more ambitious requirements for net energy requirements than TEK 10 and no heat installation for fossil fuels. Small houses, one-dwelling houses, two- to quadruple dwellings, terraced houses and chain houses will in practice be able to choose between installing panel ovens and pipes, water-borne heating or building according to the more ambitious passive house standard. The left supports all these new requirements. Unfortunately, the Government of Solberg’s new energy supply requirements and the increase in the area border make it easier for builders to choose direct electricity for heating. No energy supply is required below the new area limit of 1000 m2. For surface construction, it is sufficient to facilitate the use of energy-flexible solutions once in the future rather than to install them today. Left fears that the changes are at the expense of alternative solutions for heating and cooling in barley, such as: heat pumps, solar heating, geoheating, district heating and bioenergy. The left considers this to be an unfortunate consequence when, in a few years' time and in line with the climate agreement, demand is made for near-zero energy levels, where such solutions will be included. In addition, it is unfortunate to allow increased use of direct current for heating when the rest of society has to use this pure force to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The area limit for energy supply requirements is increased in the new regulation from 500 m2 to 1000 m2 of heated gross area. The change means that energy supply is not regulated in buildings below the landline, with the exception of small buildings. The left is concerned that the builders will adapt to an area limit of 1000 m2 when no equivalent requirements are imposed below the area limit. Therefore, we believe that there should have been a requirement for energy supply both above and below the landline, so that construction less than 500 m2 must cover 40 pst. of net heat needs through energy supply other than direct electricity. In the vote, we did not get a majority to make demands for construction below 1000 m2, but I hope that today we can secure a majority of the proposal supported by the Workers' Party, SV and Left to ask the government to impose a requirement of 60 pst. of the net heat demand for buildings over 1000 m2 may be covered by energy supply other than direct electricity. Such a requirement will ensure that larger buildings continue to choose and further develop solutions that are more long-term and are not least needed in near-zero energy buildings. A number of objections have been raised, particularly from housing producers, that such requirements will lead to much more expensive construction. I don't think it's a covering to say that. I would also like to remind you that you have to look at the costs in a longer perspective, even after the construction has been delivered. If we do not impose requirements, probably many will choose the cheapest solution today, and it is not certain that it will be the most forward-looking in a few years. Then it would be very costly to change the solution for the energy supply that was chosen when the building was new. In addition, it is important to establish a national definition and associated energy requirements for the near zero energy level to apply from 2020. It is important to ensure the predictability of industry and developers of requirements to be imposed in a few years' time. A definition and energy requirement must be developed in close dialogue between authorities, industry operators and other relevant actors. I therefore hope that a majority of the parties can also support this proposal. Then it is tempting to post some comments after the representatives Kapur and Njåstad have been up here today. A little bit of what the majority is clear about is that it's about acting in the long term. At any rate, it'll be cheaper when you get to the final effect. I have difficulty realizing that in ten to fifteen years the total will be higher. Of course, the solution can be more expensive in the present, but when you build a house, you have a longer perspective than two years in advance. Finally, I should like to mention proposal No. 5 on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1320	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1323	The proposals we have promoted with the Left are necessary, because renewable energy is a valuable energy source and must be used to cut emissions. Energy requirements must ensure future good day-to-day solutions and consumers must not be fooled into increased power consumption and power consumption. The reason why we have promoted these proposals is that these objectives are important and are part of the climate agreement. There are many points in the changes that have been good, and that both the SV, the Left and the majority, I think, have joined, but there are some of the weaknesses in the requirements for building that break with the climate agreement, and therefore it has been necessary to raise this matter. That is why it is also necessary to intervene in a case that deals with a regulation. Because when the Stortinget – the majority – adopts a climate settlement, and the government does not follow it up, it is entirely legitimate for the Stortinget to intervene in the changes made by the government. El is a very processed energy source. We need it for a lot of other things, for electrification of the car park, the bus park, and not least the industry, which needs this energy – do not throw it away for the heating of construction. It's important that we have rules now that promote the proper use of the well-processed energy source like electricity. There has been a lot of talk about construction costs. The SSB keeps statistics on construction costs and housing prices, and it cracks more and more for each year. In 2014, building costs on block apartments increased by 2 pst, while the housing price increased by 9 pst. Everyone knows that the housing price is set in the market in Norway – it does, so increased construction costs will not necessarily be charged to the market if the market is not willing to pay for it, and there are margins here that should be exploited. It's a little bad to hear that those who are going to produce homes are so little interested in the major societal challenges. We have the same debate when we discuss universal design, building homes that can be useful to everyone at all stages of life and events. Then it is also the housing prices and the youth that are pushed ahead. But if you look at the margins here, there's a lot to go on, and there have to be other rules to make it consistent. Then it's absolutely necessary to keep the limits that have been before, at 500 m2. Therefore, the discussion that this is not predictable/stable becomes a little comical. What we're proposing is just to continue the rules that have been before, and that must be the most stable thing that exists, to keep it. And 1,000 m2 is very much. It's going to be very much built in the next few years, as the representative Kapur said, but very much of it will be less than 1000 m2, and I'll bet a tens that very much will be 995 m2, just to adapt to this. But with a limit of 500 m2, much more would come under these requirements and therefore be covered by the rules. So finally, the waterborne heat and the municipalities. Many municipalities have invested in this as a good way to exploit waste heat and heat from waste. Trysil municipality, which I was in last week, has been a municipality of the past. They have used material from their own forest industry in this and have built it up, among other things. the entire Trysil mountain with water-borne heat. They are fully dependent on the follow-up of the obligation to connect and that it continues, otherwise they are ‘out of business’. This means that the municipalities have invested in something that former governments have asked them to bet on, and now this government and the majority are tricking them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1353	New energy requirements for construction were introduced on 1 January of this year following long-term work, consultation and balancing for many different reasons. This requirement is a follow-up to the climate agreement and shall ensure that new dwellings and buildings become more energy-efficient and climate-friendly. New requirements make new buildings around 20-25 pst. more energy efficient. Overall, new energy requirements can lead to an energy efficiency improvement of about 1 TWh per year. It corresponds to the energy consumption of about 50,000 households — each year. For the government, it is important that we achieve both the objectives of the climate agreement and the ambition for faster, simpler and fairer housing. I register that the representative Karin Andersen says the government is breaking the climate agreement. I ask for that to be documented, and I strongly reject such a claim. It is important that the legislation is simple and facilitates lower construction costs. The new energy requirements shall contribute to this. A whole industry has adapted to the new rules. The energy supply requirement was changed because the government wants a simpler regulation and lower construction costs. The new requirements mean that construction will have a significantly lower heat demand – which can be covered by simpler and more reasonable heating systems. Therefore, we opened up new buildings to a greater extent than in the past, which could use electricity for heating. At the same time, the energy requirements shall ensure that the buildings are not locked to electricity as the only possible source of heat. Therefore, for small buildings, chimneys are required, so that energy solutions other than electricity can also be used. For larger buildings over 1000 m2 flexible heating systems are required. It will usually mean the installation of waterborne heat, but other solutions are also possible. Constructions over 1000 m2 shall be prepared for the use of low-temperature heat solutions so as to allow changes in energy supply, e.g.: from the boiler to the heat pump. As far as the Committee's position is concerned, I would first of all like to say that I am pleased that the Committee believes it is important that the construction of the future is energy-efficient and climate-friendly, and that the main lines of energy requirements, namely, more energy-efficient construction and the prohibition of fossil heating, are endorsed. I am also pleased that the Committee stresses the importance of the predictability of the construction industry. Already last autumn the industry started adapting to new rules. It would therefore be unfortunate if requirements were to be changed quickly without thorough evaluation and new consultations. The majority of the Committee recommends the introduction of a provision to facilitate the use of district heating in new buildings. Such a provision, the so-called ‘planning’ obligation, was also found in the previous energy requirements. In practice, this was a requirement for waterborne heat where the municipality has adopted a binding obligation to district heating. The scheme, the obligation to organise it, had some unfortunate consequences for costs and the environment. The scheme provided the lack of flexibility and choice for builders who wanted other heat solutions, or would see heat and cooling in the context. We therefore removed the obligation to organise new energy requirements. This primarily provides simplifications for construction under 1000 m2. The Committee's recommendation implies the reintroduction of the obligation of organisation, but the possibility of imposing such an obligation is added to the municipalities. As I assess it, this means that it will be up to the municipality to determine which building needs to be built with water-borne heat. The proposal may increase construction costs for smaller buildings, less than 1000 m2, because waterborne heat is often more expensive than electrical systems. It can also provide less predictability for builders, as the requirements for heating systems may vary from municipality to municipality – and within municipalities. The Committee’s recommendation involves a significant change in the new energy requirements. It also involves significant changes from previous requirements. In today's legislation, municipalities cannot impose specific technical requirements in areas regulated by regulations. Therefore, for reasons of predictability for the construction industry, I believe that opinions on the appropriate design of such a provision should be sought in order to avoid adverse effects on the environment and costs. I also believe that the proposal needs to be seen in conjunction with other ongoing processes that affect the regulation of district heating. The majority of the Committee describes the intention of the proposal to ensure that the potential of district heating is maintained and that municipalities can determine how local heating resources can be used. I will consider how the legislation can fulfill the intention of the proposal, while at the same time ensuring the need for predictable legislation for the construction industry, and taking care of the environment and construction costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1398	I could imagine asking the Council of State how to now follow up the decisions that are being made in Stortinget today. There are several proposals for which it is appropriate to become a majority, so it could be interesting for Stortinget to also hear how this will now be further worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1403	It will always be the case that a Council of State is obliged to follow up the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. As regards the issue of facilitating the obligation to link the use of waterborne heat in municipalities, there is a proposal that will require legislative changes and, of course, the proposal needs to be consulted. As I explained in my article, we will also see in the context of ongoing processes dealing with the use of waterborne heat. On the issue of reintroducing the regulation of 60 pst. direct electricity for buildings of more than 1000 m2 represents a substantial change in the technical regulations. It would therefore be natural for that proposal to be made at the hearing, because it is not the same thing to introduce this requirement into the new rules as it was in the old legislation. Then we'll evaluate the hearings we get, and then we'll maybe come back to Stortinget if we think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1415	Then at least on behalf of the Workers' Party – and I also heard that the Christian People's Party said so – I can assure you that if there is a case, we will of course treat it in a thorough and good way here in the house, because we also recognise that technical regulations are somewhat complicated, and the various elements are related. But I am glad that the Council of State is so clear that this will be followed up. Then I have a question for the Council of State, because it's like this supervisor who came from DiBK, where the demand for energy flexibility was set at 50 pst, at least some debate was created. It's now drawn. So my question is really, how does the construction industry relate to the TEK that now exists, all the time you have a supervisor that has been withdrawn? Then I expect that there will also be changes in the percentage of energy flexibility. So this case has been in game for a long time, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1422	Let me first confirm that the setting of technical construction requirements is very demanding, and that this is an area where there are many who have strong interests. I understand that Stortinget has also registered it in the work on the representative proposal. There are strong business interests; there are strong political interests. What we have tried to do in the work on the new energy requirements is, first of all, to meet the Biggest climate settlement. I think we do. The second is that we have been committed to helping to ensure that new demands do not help to increase costs unnecessarily, and this is about finding a good balance. We have dialogue with the industry about the follow-up, after the supervisor was drawn. It is not to avoid any confusion when dealing with such a complicated matter, but we clean up when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1429	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State says that the government wants faster, simpler and fairer housing. That is the reason why the construction industry should release requirements for the installation of waterborne heat. It is cheapest to install panel ovens. In addition to the environmental and climate arguments to facilitate a wider range of heating systems, there is also a question of investment costs up to operating costs over time. From a 10-year perspective, investment costs may be more than modest because waterborne heat provides cheaper solutions than electricity. We're just going back a few years before the power prices were much higher than they are today. Is the long-term cost perspective taken into account in the Ministry's assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1434	Yes, we believe that we take care of the short-term desire to keep construction costs down – and I thought that it was a broad political consensus that we should help to ensure that it is not more difficult for young people to enter the housing market – and we believe that this proposal, the technical regulations now laid down, also contributes to the long-term transition, which I think we also agree on. The energy requirements mean that the buildings will be around 20-25 pst. More energy-efficient, and when heating is less needed, we also believe that electricity can be used – because there is less need for heating. Then we believe that it is a suitable tool to keep the construction costs down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1440	The climate agreement confirms that energy requirements will be reinforced to near-zero-energy levels in 2020. Such construction will have lower energy needs, as the Council of State says, but good solutions will be solar energy, bioenergy, heat pumps, district heating, along with cooling and energy storage. It is only four years before these new requirements are to be made, and if industries are to survive and have the prerequisites for meeting the requirements, they must be able to maintain and develop today's skills and find new solutions. The industries themselves say that the government's energy requirements are now at risk of leading us in the opposite direction. Why is it that the Council of State is not concerned that we need to develop these alternative energy sources that can be used for heating and not waste important and processed electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1445	Let me first say that when the representative Andersen did not repeat his claim that the government is breaking the climate agreement, I assume that this claim is dead and buried, because it was a serious claim. I have been concerned that we should meet the climate agreement in setting the new energy requirements, and I believe that such claims need to be documented. The requirements we set should be as technology-neutral as possible, and we believe that the best, most energy-efficient and most cost-effective solutions will be chosen here. The whole industry knows where we're going in 2020. We are also clear that this is the first step towards even more energy-efficient housing, and that the requirements will be further strengthened towards 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1452	Governments do not respond to the use of energy. El is a refined energy that we need to transform society in line with the climate agreement. Then we can't waste this power to heat up construction, because until that, we have other solutions, and there are many industries that are clear – as the Council of State is not talking about – that are ready to develop the energy we can use to heat up construction. We need to do both if we are to achieve the climate agreement's objective of both getting near-zero energy levels and being able to shift the use of non-renewable energy in other sectors of society, such as. carriage. Then my question is: why does the Council of State think it is right to waste so much power to heat up construction when we have alternative solutions that provide jobs, that develop technology, and that are also industries that are interested in continuing to live and contribute to the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1459	There are two answers to that: one is that the energy requirements mean that the buildings will be 20-25 pst. more energy efficient. This means reducing the need for heating. This is an important result of the new energy requirements. The second thing I thought was important for the Socialist Left Party, too, is that we have to keep the construction costs down. There are many debates in this room where many are concerned about the situation of young people in the housing market, and it is clear that with new and strengthened demands, it can contribute to higher construction costs and make it more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. We believe that we have found a good balance, where we contribute to more energy-efficient construction while at the same time helping to increase costs no more than is necessary for the many young people entering the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1468	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1473	I would like to thank the committee for the debate, unless someone has signed up for new 3-minutes or 1-minutes, which means that we have to continue the debate, but I thank you so much for the debate. I think it was a useful clarification of how these decisions will be taken. I understand that what you adopt today has to go back to hearings, and then the government has to come back to Stortinget with the results of the hearings and how to take the matter further. We'll see when we get that far. I also see the signals from the Christian People's Party, who are positive about getting a case back, along with both the Workers' Party and not least the rest of us. There is no doubt that I would like to see that we did not get these decisions, because I still believe that today's regulation is strict enough, by the fact that buildings over 1000 m2 have stricter requirements for energy-flexible solutions than construction under 1000 m2. Therefore, it is unnecessary to adopt something that will actually make it more expensive to build new dwellings. Instead of reasonable electric furnaces, waterborne heat must now be installed in the floor or a radiator and all this helps to send the construction costs upwards. I also noticed, in the exchange of words between the Council of State and the representative from SV, that the question of whether the representative from SV still believes that the government has broken the climate agreement was addressed again. She could not confirm that she withdrew that claim, but as she did not hold it any longer, I think it is best that it is dead and buried, for it was a gross claim. Finally, I would also like to reflect a little on this with an exceptional condition. Many today have said that it is known that the Storting should not really operate with regulatory changes and adopt regulations, but this is an exceptional state. I hope that this case does not create a precedent for what is an exceptional state of affairs in this big business, which means that we should go in and start changing regulations. I also believe that if we look at how the proposals that originally came from SV and Left have been met by an overall industry, there is also evidence that the Storting should not interfere with regulations. It only creates uncertainty, poor policy and unforeseeableness. You almost have to be from the Socialist Left when you think that continuing with bad politics and yesterday's solutions is the definition of stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1494	Keeping up the rules to develop industries that are heating alternative renewable energy sources is positive. It's stable, and there's an area limit to which the industry has been accustomed for many years, so saying that it's a big change and leads to great instability falls on its own unfairness. The problem with the change that governments are making is that they are adding more electricity for heating where other energy sources can be used, because the electricity is a refined energy source that should be used to electrify other parts of society currently operating with non-renewable polluting energy sources. This applies, for example: the entire transport sector, for which we need to reduce emissions. It's because this effect doesn't come, and that solution isn't there, because we want to lack power to find good solutions that don't relate to our objectives in the climate deal. Because it can't be done if you don't make sure you can use the power for other things. So to the claim that more stringent energy requirements lead to more expensive dwellings. It is always claimed when new demands are made, it has always done so. It is claimed in the case of energy supply requirements that ensure e.g.: better windows or building body, that it is always expensive and that it is always the purchaser of the dwelling to have that bill. There are many factors that drive the housing price. It's population growth, location, plots and lack of plots. The SSB figures show that housing prices are significantly higher than construction costs. That means that the price is not determined by the construction costs, but by the market price and all the assumptions I mentioned. There is a lot of government that can do to ensure that there are enough plots, that there is more building – for example. by increasing the framework of the House Bank, which the government has not wanted to do, in order to raise the housing structure – because that is what can bring the price down. Some energy requirements will cost slightly more upon the entry into force of a regulation, but it is cheaper when you get up volume and experience, it is cheaper in the life cycle, and it must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1505	The representative, Karin Andersen, said in his main post that the government is breaking the climate agreement. Now it was repeated in a slightly milder version, where the representative Karin Andersen says that the government is not dealing with the objectives of the climate agreement. I must almost expect the representative of the Socialist Left Party to document what is said when it is said that the government either breaks or does not relate to the objectives of the climate agreement. It's wrong – we follow up the climate agreement. It's also not true when it's claimed that you want to use more electricity. No, you want to use less electricity, because with the new energy requirements you increase energy efficiency by between 20 and 25 pst. It corresponds to the energy consumption of about 50,000 households or 1 TWh per year. I do not understand that the representative Karin Andersen believes that more electricity will be needed. No, there will be a need for less. But when you get this severe reduction, we think we can take into account that we can also implement demands that allow young people to enter the housing market without paying even more for their homes. This is where SV once again bommers, when you don't see that there is a connection between the requirements that we impose on the dwelling builders, and the price that young people have to pay when they are going to the housing market. Finally, it is not just to reintroduce an old requirement for new rules, for the energy requirements have changed significantly from what was in force before 1 January 2016. That is why I confirm to the representative of the Workers' Party, Stine Renate Håheim, that any change must be made to the hearing, and that we must then assess the hearings that come in, and that we will then possibly come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1514	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1517	I assume you've read the setting. It says in the comments of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left: ‘Instead of designing the energy supply requirements in line with the Climate Change Agreement and enabling the near zero energy level from 2020, the new energy supply requirements will raise the use of direct electricity’. Then I also notice that the Council of State again does not take into account that the housing prices are set in the market, and that there is much the government can do there to increase the housing construction and get it done. So it's true that these requirements will reduce the use of energy in individual dwellings, but a lot will have to be built in the future, and there will also be major changes in other social sectors, where we need this electricity. We need all the electricity we can get, because it's not like everyone sitting in this room will also expand every single watercourse that exists. We also want to preserve nature and develop the way we, for example. can heat up build-up with alternative sources. It's stopped now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1529	I've read the comments from the committee, but I can't see that that committee comment is any evidence that the government would break any climate settlement. It was just a statement from a note that you did not act in line with the climate agreement. I fundamentally disagree with that. At no point has the representative Karin Andersen been able to substantiate that claim during this debate. I think a little respect also for other parties suggests that where we actually agree on the climate agreement, we should not question each other's motives. Then I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen that the housing prices will be clarified in the market. This is why the government in its housing social strategy and housing strategy has placed emphasis on the supply side, namely that we need to facilitate more construction, cheaper and faster. There is also a background for the government to implement significant simplifications in the Planning and Building Act and the Technical Regulations so that it can be built faster and more reasonably. This is also why the government has raised the threshold of objections, precisely in order to facilitate more and faster housing. Yes, this is the offer page, and that is why we must also avoid unnecessary cost-effective technical requirements for those who are to be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1537	It was actually SV's strange definition of how the housing market works, which made me take the floor. SV’s representative refers to the market as determining the housing prices. However, the market consists of an offer page and a demand page, and the offer page – i.e. the housing price – is, of course, the sum of demand – how much it is – and the construction costs. When, year after year, a red-green government has imposed new technical details and requirements on the construction industry – which has not even been synchronised with innovation in the same industry – it has been ensured that higher construction costs have been incurred. It is a bill that unfortunately is also sent to the individual consumer and the purchaser. Parties like SV, the Workers' Party, Right and others are present, we are represented in many of the big cities – in the press areas. Standing here saying that technical requirements and details do not contribute to increased construction prices, which in turn have an important impact on housing prices, is a strange theory. I would like to have a discussion with Karin Andersen about how the market works, but the market does not function in such a way that Karin Andersen and SV are on one side of the market – that is, the one who decides how all the dwellings in Norway are to be built. Then you just have to build these houses, people have to buy them, and if they can't afford it, you can always put on government money. This is not related. What we have been talking about in this debate is that, of course, energy-efficient buildings are important. This is precisely why we have introduced a number of new guidelines that will ensure that the new buildings will be energy efficient. But we also have to find the balance point that allows us to have energy-efficient construction while at the same time providing predictability for the construction industry that allows them to build these buildings at an affordable price. Not least, we need flexibility in this which means that innovation in the construction industry does not go to play, because there have very often been much longer technical demands than we politicians have. So this is no contradiction, and I hope that the representative, Andersen, can now soon take over. I would also like to say that, as the rapporteur on the matter, I have followed closely the debate, and I have not yet heard the representative, Karin Andersen, withdraw his statement that the government is breaking the climate agreement. Either she gets to document it, or she gets to come up here and draw it. I think she's next on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1562	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1569	In the setting there are different constellations and clarifications in the comments, but I would like to stress, as the rapporteur, that in the approach to this matter there is a great deal in common from all the parties in the committee. Firstly, it underlines that this is a project that can have a significant impact on the development of Norwegian business and the development of Norwegian jobs – a project worth several tens of billions of dollars, the size we know nothing more concrete about yet. But it is obvious that this can have a significant symbolic and real impact on the development of jobs and on our innovation in the field of construction. There is also a common position in the Committee that it is fundamental international contractual obligations and Norwegian law that must be underpinned when we deal with a proposal like this. The law is such that public acquisitions must be based on non-discrimination, irrespective of nationality, locality, etc. But at the same time, a joint committee goes in and says something about developing award criteria related to the construction project that can have financial value, price, in addition to clean counting of crowns and ears, which have to do with certainty, material choices and other things. Both an overall committee, the governmental parties in their comments and the Council of State in their response to the Committee address the issue of choosing either the lowest possible price as an approach, or, as the Council of State writes in its letter, ‘the most economically advantageous offer’. You can also enter other conditions that can have economic value for the builder – i.e. for the state – but only price. Well, these are the criteria we're talking about in the setting. Common to the Committee, although it is in a slightly different form in the various comments, there is also a desire to have high environmental ambitions in the project. The Labour Party, Left and SV have formulated that we want high environmental ambitions, want to define almost zero energy buildings, etc., while the government parties have clear formulations on the use of environmentally friendly technology – that it should be environmentally and energy efficient construction, etc. There is also a common approach in the Committee that this has a long-term perspective. First, a proposal for a State regulatory plan shall be consulted, etc., it shall be an architectural contest, and the construction project shall be further worked towards what has now been announced by the Council of State that it is planning a construction proposal to be promoted by the Stortinget in the first half of 2019. At that time, the questions we are discussing in the positioning of that proposition will enter into a more concrete form and phase. It is important that we maintain what has so far been the approach to the new government quarter project: that we consider this to be important to have broad agreement, that there is a project of which everyone has a great interest – how the government quarter should look, how the government buildings that will house governments from different parties will develop in the future – and that we must maintain the common approach to the project. I think that's important to emphasize. I also think that once we have discussed this in other contexts of the Storting, the Council of State has been responsive and has shown an open approach to the whole process. That's a good promise. I would like to stress that there is a lot of common in this setting. With regard to the point that everyone raises, or which the Committee addresses collectively, that the choice of materials is one of the things to consider in terms of award criteria, the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are taking a closer look at it and are asking the government to investigate and assess how construction using wood can be developed in the context of a new government quarter. I just want to say that there is a lot of interesting happening in the Norwegian construction industry in that field, among other things. a large project that is now intended to be developed in Bergen: a 14-storey wooden building at the Puddefjord. And on Kringzeek, a 9-storey student house is to be built in three. Of course, we should take safety into account – there are many things – so the proposal to ‘assess’ is not to adopt anything here today, of course. In 2019, the construction proposal will come. I will take up the suggestions made by the Workers' Party together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1590	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1593	I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office for a thorough and good presentation. As he says, most parties are behind the rapporteur's statement. I thought I would refer to the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party, and I am going to explain a little bit about our views on the matter. How a new government quarter is to be built and looked, occupies many, and it should. It is gratifying for us Oslo politicians that people from other parts of the country also care – show interest in and engage in this project. For us, this isn't just a construction project; it's actually part of a political urban development project as well. Both in the Committee, in the Storting and as Oslo politicians, we are going to follow very closely what is going to happen in the future. I also want to commend the government that we have had close dialogue all along. A new government quarter is not just offices; it shall constitute, through architecture, location and appearance, a national symbol. It shall also be an open part of the urban scene; it shall be an important part of the centre development. It must at the same time ensure safety, infrastructure, etc. So here's a lot of consideration to be taken into account in the time coming. In such a construction project, it is natural to expect the use of modern technologies to use the latest innovation from the construction industry, where energy-efficient solutions are available, etc. I would like to remind the House of what the rapporteur has said, that the government must have time to come back to these things when it has come so far, and in the same style as it has done until now – come back to the Stortinget and address both tender criteria, appearance and other things that it is natural to bring to the Stortinget. Finally, I just want to say that we think it is a little strange that a representative proposal based primarily on tender criteria/allocation criteria has gradually emerged as a debate – I would say – from some parties on whether to use three, on what kind of materials to use in the building, etc. It is a rather premature discussion and really does not belong in this proposal. Now it's there, but we from both the Right Party and the Advance Party make it clear in our remarks that here we have to wait, and then the government comes back when it's a natural time for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1606	Because of circumstances that everyone knows, there's going to be a new government quarter in Oslo, in our capital. The representative proposal from the Central Party therefore raises important issues that can be easily understood, but on the other hand, the answers from the Council of State are quite elucidating and clarifying in what room of action we have, and which leaders are already involved in this matter. The Christian People's Party meets a good process, where both Norwegian suppliers and Norwegian entrepreneurs know how to use their knowledge and proximity, and where architectural and environmental conditions are well cared for. We have strong trade unions within this that have distinguished themselves, and I expect that they will be on the track and interested in this. It will be one of the country's most important signal buildings in the coming years, and we think it is essential to bear in mind both material choices and other aspects, that the building is built from a climate perspective and this is how it becomes a precursor building. Besides, the Christian People's Party understands that many think, see and want both one and the other, but we leave that to the further work and process. We have full confidence that the government at the responsible state council will ensure that this is done, and come back to Stortinget with the aspects of the matter to which Stortinget is going to deal. The Christian People's Party looks forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1615	The planning of the new government quarter is now under way. It's a huge project with an estimated cost framework of 15-16 billion. kr. We have seen the proposals of the architectural competition for new buildings, and we have a broad debate on which solutions should be chosen. Public procurement in the range of 15 to 16 billion. can have a major impact on employment and the business environment. I am part of the proposal for a representative to ensure that the tender criteria for a new government quarter ensure that Norwegian industry can be competitive. The new government quarter will be a signal building. It is then important that we implement the development in a way that challenges the innovation power of the Norwegian architecture, design and entrepreneurship environment. We will help to ensure that the new government quarter shows Norwegian construction practice at its best, just as I experience other signal buildings doing. At the construction of the Opera, Norwegian stone was chosen for Italian marble. I understand that when the new national museum was built, Norwegian stone was chosen. Good Norwegian construction practice does not mean that we should reject everything that is foreign, but Norwegian construction practices also have to do with material choices. The Norwegian economy is under cooling. Unemployment has increased to new heights. In the opinion of the proposers, the implementation of a project as large as the new government quarter will be must contribute to ensuring Norwegian enterprises’ missions and Norwegian workers’ employment. We need to exploit the countercyclical effect this project can give us in times that are much harder than we've seen in recent decades. I feel that a joint committee supports the intentions of the draft representative. However, on the part of the majority, there will be good intentions, but no commitments in the direction of choice. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State also supports these intentions. However, it is important when he says that ‘only emphasising the lowest price criterion is not necessarily the most appropriate award criterion in this type of project’. Then he adds that the criteria to be used for the new government quarterly project will be clarified later. He should be able to express that tender criteria which respect Norwegian construction practices and which contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the tendering process will be an important part of the criteria chosen by the Ministry. The minority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, support the proposal for a representative and also contribute to positive additions. In addition to proposal No: 1, where the Government asks the Government to ensure that the tendering criteria in the project are designed in such a way that Norwegian industry is competitive in the tendering process, we also make a proposal No. 2, where the Storting asks the government to investigate and assess how the construction of a new government quarter can be used to demonstrate and promote the use of wood. It is incomprehensible to me when the representative Kapur believes this is outside the case. When discussing the tendering criteria for the Government Quartet, it must also be natural to discuss the use of material to promote Norwegian construction practices. In addition, the SV representative promotes a third proposal to ensure that new government quarter becomes a zero-emission building and contributes to innovation in climate technology and becomes a plus house in operation. When we have not supported this proposal by the Centre Party, it is because innovation in climate technology is a broader field than it is natural to link it to a particular construction project. The intentions are good, but belong in a more holistic context, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1636	The left agrees that the proposal for a representative addresses an important issue which may have an impact on the development of Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. The new government quarter will be an investment of tens of billions of dollars that can trigger great value creation and activity. The goal is to obtain architectural values that reflect its symbolic role and Norwegian values. Thus, Norwegian enterprises could have special conditions to contribute to the development and construction of the new government quarter. For the Left, it is important to point out that this will have to be done within the framework of Norwegian law and our international agreements and obligations. It's important that we now get a building that will be a signal building in many ways. This means that we cannot discriminate against suppliers because of nationality or locality. We need to develop award criteria that can be linked to the construction project and that can have financial value for the builder in a wider sense than just a price. This may include, for example: safety and choice of materials. The new government quarter will be one of the largest public building projects in the years to come. We believe that it is necessary to assume that such a comprehensive and important project will be implemented with high quality requirements and low or no emissions in both the construction and operational phases. The left believes that a new and rehabilitated government quarter with its history will attract international attention and will need to become an exhibition window for climate solutions. Governments in Stortinget on 10 February 2016 stated that the government is continuously and concretely working to define standards and how to achieve a new government quarter with high environmental ambitions. The left would stress that the government quarter, with its location and density of jobs, must be fully in the forefront in terms of the organisation and promotion of corridors, bicycles, public transport and non-emission vehicles. We believe that the plus-house level must be pursued, and that the government quarter must be indicative of the definition of almost zero-energy buildings. In addition, we believe that the government quarter must exploit all appropriate surfaces to produce as much renewable energy as possible. We believe that innovative low- or zero-emission materials need to be requested within the main material groups. Examples here are concrete with carbon capture and storage and adhesives for supporting structures. This can have positive effects on Norwegian green material producers. We also believe that the new government quarter must have the aim of having at least one major climate innovation. The left also believes that the construction phase must be fossil-free and, as far as possible, emission-free. We believe that the government quarter is well suited to become one of FutureBuild's exemplary projects. FutureBuild has a vision of: ‘show that it is possible to develop high-quality, climate-neutral and urban areas. The aim is to develop 50 model projects – both areas and single buildings – to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent in the areas of transport, energy use and materials use. Pilot projects shall be of high architectural quality, contribute to a good urban environment and be close to collective nodes.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1663	First, thank you to the Center Party, which has promoted an important proposal in a matter I think most of us would wish we had not had to deal with. But once we have to build a new government quarter, we need to use that opportunity to develop Norwegian business and innovation in the best possible way. We also need to use it to show Norway with a Norwegian image that appears. It is true that Innovation Norway is promoting the forest industry and the construction of wood. Then I expect the government's parties to stand behind it. They say in their strategy that we need to use the big projects to develop this. Other parts of the construction industry also say that major projects need to be used to drive innovation in climate, environment, materials use, etc. But we also have to use them to raise one of Norway's raw materials, which are also green and renewable, and which have an expression that I think most people appreciate visually. The reason why SV introduced this topic into the project is that we believe it is important – not that the Stortinget can decide that this is the case, but that the Stortinget says that the government has to explore these possibilities because they are big and important, just as the case-rapporteur said. It should just be lacking that the Stortinget did not mean it, because we have all said that we must get to the green shift in Norway. If we are to get green replaced in Norway, we need to get up on the use of renewable building material, which we have a lot of in Norway. And from such a project, we can develop new qualities that can be very competitive both in Norway and internationally. This is an industry I think we should have international ambitions on behalf of, because that's the good reason. We have long traditions to develop three to many uses, and there is an industry and an industry I think Norway should also invest in the future, because it is renewable. SV has also made a proposal to ensure that the government quarter becomes a zero-emission building in the construction and operational phase, that it contributes to innovation in climate technology and that it becomes a plus house in operation. I believe it is important to use such a large project for this. At least it should be an ambition to use the large state buildings to drive innovation in this area and to have buildings that meet these criteria. The Committee was on a visit to State Building in the West Railway Area a few days ago, and there is no doubt that there is a great deal of enthusiasm in Statsbyggen to drive innovation in these areas. There is a lot of expertise and enthusiasm that we have to make good use of, and we have to set high ambitions for the buildings that are now to be built. This new government building will be a signal building. It's seamly very important for Oslo City how it's going to look architectural, and how it's going to be in the city plan, but it's a building for the whole country, and it's a building that Norway's going to show to the outside world when we visit. So in spite of the tragic circumstances, we believe that we must now use the possibility that this building offers to really lift us up in terms of the environmental and climate aspects of the building. We need to ensure that Norwegian business can participate in this major project in such a way that innovation and development in the industry can be driven. And we all have to work on what we can to use and show wood as a building material – seafaringly within security frameworks, but experience and technology have shown that wooden buildings stand well in very many contexts where one once thought it was not possible. I take up SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1682	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1685	The government quarter is a major and important project for Norway and of course for the city of Oslo. Open dialogue and discussion about the project are therefore important. Let me first correct a few misunderstandings in the Committee's position: The first is that Statsbyggen prepared a proposal for a planning programme which was being consulted early in the spring of last year. The Plan Programme is not established by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, but will be in the near future. The draft regulatory plan with impact assessment is scheduled to be submitted for general consultation in the first half of 2016, not in April 2016. It continues to be set up to adopt the regulatory plan by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation around the turn of the year 2016/2017. Then to the representative proposal itself. We are all committed to contributing to a Norwegian competitive business that wins large contracts. In that perspective, the new government quarterly project could be a driver for the conversion and further development of Norwegian enterprises. Of course, the government will actively contribute to this. Such involvement must take place within the framework of Norwegian law and our obligations under international agreements. Many of the provisions of the Procurement Code stem from the non-discrimination requirement for all operators. This requirement applies irrespective of nationality. Therefore, a contracting authority such as State Building cannot directly favour suppliers because of nationality or locality. I understand that the committee agrees with this. Non-discrimination between all operators does not mean that certain forms of prior contacts between the contracting entity and the market are prohibited. Specific requirements for choice of materials, e.g. the deliberate use of wood materials where this is best and safe to accept can be examples of this. Supplier development is also not an unknown concept in State Building. In my opinion, when suppliers have a good knowledge of the public needs, they are also better able to offer proper solutions. I am therefore sure that Norwegian business is aware of the possibilities that exist for developing their own skills in the new government quarter project, and that they will use their skills and capabilities from the past to provide fully competitive and innovative solutions in all areas. I record that environmental requirements have received considerable attention in the setting. The Government will plan future government quarter with ambitious environmental objectives and a high level of energy efficiency, so that planning is at the height of best practices for environmentally friendly construction and outdoor areas in a life-cycle perspective, providing a socially viable and cost-effective resource use. This ambition will be put into practice gradually, and I would like to stress that environmental quality has a central place in the project of a new government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1727	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that a new government quarter will be interesting for the further development of Norwegian enterprises. He then adds – as everyone knows – that ‘the requirements for the criteria are that they should be objective and non-discriminatory’. I understand the signals of the Council of State that they are positive to the proposal that the tender criteria should be designed in such a way that Norwegian industry is competitive in the tendering process. Do I understand the Council of States correctly, that he agrees with the intentions of the proposal, but does it not, however, consider it appropriate to recommend support for it? In that case, the question becomes why, when it now looks as if we agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1734	We have explained in the letter what understanding we have, what framework we operate within and what opportunities are contained in the tender criteria. We will of course use this to facilitate good competition, but also for good solutions, where it will be possible for Norwegian companies to participate in the tendering procedures. But it's premature to go into that kind of concrete balance at this point in time. We're still at a stage where we're working on the regulation plan, and then we'll come back to both the architectural competitions and the expansion project itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1739	Innovation Norway has a large programme to promote the forest industry and the construction industry through the use of wood in barley, and the project is called the Wood-based Innovation Programme. In that program, they say, they're totally dependent on having big projects to develop this. The aim must be to stimulate the use of wood and to stimulate a large potential part of Norwegian industry, including in the case of renewables. I understand that the government can't say clearly yes or no, but I just want to ask if in connection with new government building it seems natural for the government to look at the projects that Innovation Norway has in the construction and especially the forest industry, and whether he shares the vision that it would have been nice with a building that really showed three also as a visual profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1746	I think it's important that we use Norwegian three – what we can also call inland gold. I also know about the programme of Innovation in Norway, and of course it is natural that we also assess it. I also explained in my post that it is possible to make specific demands on material choices, but here we both have to look for what is best, and we have to look at what is architecturally correct. We have also stated that it should reflect Norwegian values. And then security is also an important premise that must lie in the development of the new government quarter; it must be safe acceptable. So within those frameworks, of course, this is something that also needs to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1751	The reservations now made by the Council of State have also been taken by those behind this proposal, for example: related to safety. In the past there have also been major discussions about fire conditions, and it has been shown that, for example. the use of glues has very good quality and fire safety in relation to, for example: use of steel. So the question here is whether you want to add a little bit more width to see if this is really possible. I believe that parts of the forest industry in Norway would also look very gratefully at that, and that the construction industry in Norway, which operates in wood, may also need such a large building to reach for it. So the rules aren't necessarily a Norwegian company that wins, but this is one of the points where you can really get an innovation in this area, which can lift this industry up as an even more internationally competitive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1756	Was that a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1759	I perceived it as a question, President! I believe it would be wrong for me to give the kind of signals now. There are many industries that would like to benefit or position themselves in the work and development of a new government quarter. We have the Norwegian stone industry, which of course is also interested. I believe that it would be wrong for me now to point to individual industries, but I have pointed out what opportunities lie there, and then this question is to which we will come back. We're still in the phase where we're working on the regulation plan, and that means there'll be a lot of opportunities in the future. I think it's good that we have an open discussion and dialogue on these issues, but we also have to make sure that the decisions come in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1766	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1771	Thank you to the Central Party for an important initiative and important proposals. Minority proposal No. 1 and 2 are excellent proposals and should, of course, have received a great deal of support here in Stortinget. Proposal No. 1 think I give a very important signal externally to Norwegian business, and proposal No. 2 could mean that the government could take a very good step along with the forest industry and those who are driving good technology in the use of wood in construction. I have met representatives of, among others: the solid wood industry on some occasions. It is clear that there are great possibilities for the use of wood in construction, even in large, heavy structures. There is a lot of new technology in this area that is still in the process of being developed. The feedback I received on the proposals that lie here, especially on the number. 1 and 2, from the forest industry and those who develop construction technology, has been very positive. Therefore, it would have been very good if the proposals could get a majority. Now it's not too late yet that they can get it. We have, as many have mentioned, large resources in the forest industry. Then it is important that we see the possibility and exploit our green, renewable resource. We in Norway are lucky, we have a large green and renewable gold mine. We have strong tradition and high technological competence in the use of wood, and we can take a leading role in this area. But then we need these big and innovative projects where wood and forest industries can develop. Signals on how a new government quarter can show the use of wood could give industry and technology development an important and proper push forward. As I said, the proposals should have been given a majority, but it would be good if we could at least agree here at Stortinget that we want to promote Norwegian technology development and Norwegian business when this signal building, which has been used many words about it, is realized. Now it's not just a signal building, it's also going to be a functional building and a workplace where people are going to do a useful job. This can be achieved by means of proposal No. 1 and 2 without breaking our international trade agreements on a single point. We're just going to use our national space of action, because such a space of action actually exists even with the international agreements that Norway is bound by.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1783	The Central Party representative’s proposal concerns Norwegian jobs and the development of Norwegian competence. We make each of us daily choices that affect Norwegian value creation. When we are in the store and add foreign yoghurt to the shopping cart, we at the same time choose Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation. When buying new coffee crucibles or office furniture and choosing non-resident goods, an enterprise chooses Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation at the same time. And when the state is building a new government building, one can either take away Norwegian jobs or bet on Norwegian jobs and competences. Of course we should have competition, and of course we should also have competition from abroad. We must respect the legislation that regulates this, but we must use the space for action provided by the legislation, and that is what is contained in the proposal for a representative of the Central Party. We want tenders that make Norwegian working life competitive, and it is obvious that a Norwegian government quarter will be built of Norwegian materials. Wood is an important and environmentally friendly building material. A new government quarter will be a special important building for our country, and it is therefore important that we use this built to show and promote the use of three and other Norwegian materials. It is essential that these clarifications are taken early in planning. That day, if necessary, the Chinese marble is on the boat on its way to Oslo, it is too late. The Economic and Social Committee is now examining a new law on public acquisitions, and it will also be important here for the Centre Party that this is designed in a way that facilitates Norwegian and local business and their ability to participate in competitive tendering. It's about using the space of action in international agreements, and we have to pay more attention than just the lowest price. The representative Kapur from the Right mentioned earlier the importance of an urban development project. It is well and good, but it must be very clear that the issue of a new government quarter is about national policy. It's supposed to be the nation's building. We have confirmed that Oslo does not have its own government. The center party is out early. We see that we don't get a majority now. Our hope is that the other parties will wake up before it is too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1796	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1810	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1817	This case concerns proposals to amend the Law on Planning and Building to provide the government with a means of remedying a crisis or disaster or other exceptional situations in peacetime. We know that there are a number of law houses that can be used in different situations. I refer to the Employment Security Act, the Health Protection Act and the Civil Protection Act as an example, where, in a given situation, exceptional measures can be taken. The weakness of the emergency response system in Norway has been that the Planning and Building Act has not been enough to enable one to act and take the necessary measures in the event of a major crisis. We saw this last fall when we got the situation of asylum access to Norway and the need to regulate and change the use of a range of buildings quickly to secure people's roof over their heads. The Law on Planning and Building, combined with the fact that many municipalities did not use the action space under the Law on Planning and Building, made it a demanding situation for many places. Therefore, the government promotes this proposition to the Storting to secure the necessary legal secret for a similar situation, but also for other situations that can be defined as a crisis. Examples that have been used have been floods, pandemics – there may be examples that make a need to rush people, and that one then needs to have a home in a crisis situation in place. The government introduced this bill to the Storting without having had it on his ear ring first, and suggested two years of duration, so that one in that period could bring a permanent law secret that had been thoroughly distributed and presented to the Stortinget again. The Committee took the time to carry out a hearing, and we got different views. KS was one of the actors that was active on the track when they wanted it to be in the municipalities. On the basis of KS's initiative, the Committee decided to challenge the government once more to see whether this could be added to the municipalities. The Governments shall reply to the Committee promptly, in addition and in good time. The answer is very clear, and I hope everyone has read it carefully and sees that there are a number of countermeasures to put this home to the local government sector when one actually talks about a big crisis situation. For this reason, the Government Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party will uphold the proposal put forward by the government to establish this temporary secret, pending a permanent mandate to use it in various situations. Then you will see in the setting that there is a multiple that does not support importing this home. Of course, we found it unfortunate that the government did not provide such a basis for it when she asked for it on a precautionary basis. Instead of recommending the majority in the committee that one does not make any promises today, the government asks to come back to the Storting with proposals for changes in the law that only go on the refugee situation, that is, not to mention a possible pandemic, a possible flood situation – one only goes on the refugee situation. Of course, we would have liked to see that we had had multiples today to put in such a home, but it looks as if this day becomes the day when the government party is a little too often in minority, and in such an important case as preparedness and securing the government's home in an emergency situation, we would like to see that we do not end up in minorities. I assume that the parties behind the plural setting will do their best in the debate, and will then conclude, on behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party, by submitting the minority proposal mentioned in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1830	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1833	I want to begin by commending Norwegian municipalities, which have set up in a very exemplary way in what we saw was an emergency situation, which has shown social responsibility, willingness to cooperate and contributed to the rapid establishment of the necessary reception points. The Workers' Party shares the government's desire to set up reception facilities quickly and efficiently, but we do not agree with the government's proposed instrument, namely that the decision-making authority to grant building permits and changes in use in a crisis situation should be moved from municipality to state. We believe that the municipalities are better placed to carry out rapid processes because they are the ones who handle these matters daily, they have local knowledge and competence, and they are also the ones who have an overview and responsibility for critical infrastructure. Then it is also appropriate to remind the municipalities that today already has a room for action, among other things. by delegation of power from the Local Council to another body or administration. We have listened to KS's recordings in the case, and also to the large city councils who clearly supported KS's principal views during the hearing. However, we support the government's proposal that, in a national crisis, there may be a need to derogate, among other things. the provisions of the neighbouring law on neighbouring alerts, so that these processes are effective, but we therefore believe that, as a general rule, the decision-making authority must still be with the municipalities. The Workers' Party is united with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV to ask the government to come back with proposals for legislative changes that are in line with KS's input. The rapporteur mentioned problems in terms of floods and pandemics, and then it is appropriate to say that I assume that the government and the state authorities also contribute to that kind of contingency plan being in place, that you have that kind of plan. Then we do not rule out the need to introduce more general exceptions into planning and building laws or other laws to meet an emergency situation in other areas too, but then our clear answer is that it cannot be done without an investigation and a public consultation. Then the government has to investigate, send it to the hearing and come back to Stortinget with one thing, which we will of course deal with in a good and thorough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1846	The high growth in asylum arrivals last year posed major challenges for the reception apparatus and revealed the need to establish emergency homes in the legislation, including: to accommodate housing capacity quickly enough. Such situations may also arise for other reasons, but it was the underlying cause this time. So in 2015, the refugee situation created some aha experiences, considering that unforeseen things can happen, and that several things can occur at the same time, which reinforce each other. Preparedness is about something as difficult as being prepared for situations we can neither fully nor partially predict. We have to get better at predicting them and taking into account what has so far been unimaginable. I am well aware of such contingency plans, both via the port services, municipalities and county authorities, which I have experienced in Rogaland, and I see that there is enough capacity and competence here to do more locally. In the Christian People's Party, as in the Committee, some time has been spent on this matter, for it is an important matter. But what took the most time for both was to agree on the location of power and authority in these decisions. It is tempting to think that when something is urgent, we call on the state – here it has to be sorted out. But in this case, it might be a little too fast. We saw that the establishment of some emergency shelters caused some irritation and wonder around the municipalities, because the municipalities are sitting with a touch of fingertips. Maybe by moving one meter one way and one meter the other – in terms of transfer – one could have created a better situation. It will be in line with the municipal reform that the municipalities get that task. It will also strengthen the settlement and understanding of integration if one implements this in the municipalities, that it becomes the responsibility of the municipalities. I also believe that it is a responsibility of the municipalities in all ways, that they will be able to do so, and that they must be able to do so. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be exceptions within the planning and building law that allow rapid action in an exceptional situation. However, we believe that in such a situation, the municipalities have the best prerequisite and the best local knowledge, as I have mentioned. Therefore, like the KS, we believe that the decision-making authority in such an emergency home must be with the municipalities. In essence, we think that the country has a good idea of a 'becoming the government back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for legislative changes which, in the event of a national refugee crisis, give the municipalities the power to derogate from the law on planning and building and neighboring law'. However, there is a deadline, a barrier, for this, and if it is not complied with, the Ministry may review and take the necessary measures. So that side is also secured. The decision on the existence of a national refugee crisis is the government to take. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for a decision that exists. There is reason to believe that migration, as we experience in Europe, by people on the run is not something going on. Providing decent reception and treatment for those coming to Norway is a common concern, and I am pleased – and have come to understand – that UDI and the authorities are already in the process of reaching agreements and creating good conditions if something like this should happen again in the future. We in the Christian People's Party will do our best to arrive at a good solution, so that the matter, when it comes back from the government, gets a good treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1867	The Government does not endorse the proposal to set aside municipal planning and construction procedures in cases requiring rapid treatment due to critical and exceptional situations. The majority of the Committee agrees that we need exceptions to the Planning and Building Act and the Neighbourhood Act in order to ensure rapid treatment in the event of a national refugee crisis, as we do, for example. experienced last year, but we believe it is fully possible to maintain municipal procedural responsibilities in such situations as well. The Ministry's bill was not sent to ordinary hearings until it was promoted for Stortinget. It wasn't a wise decision. Now we will have to spend more time putting in place exceptions in the law than we would have done if the proceedings had followed common practice. In the proposal promoted by the Storting, the derogations proposed by the Planning and Building Act and the Neighbourhood Notice Act are linked not only to the exceptional large reception of refugees but to different types of crises, disasters and other exceptional situations. I assume that when the department has submitted to an urgent procedure on a matter of principle and substance, it has a background in the possibility that we may receive more refugees this year than the established reception apparatus can handle. I agree with the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, who believe that in this round we need to find solutions on how to deal with national refugee crises. Then the Ministry may come back to an assessment of the need for wider exceptions in the legislation in question. We need to deal with this in a more ordinary way, where the municipal sector is given the opportunity to comment on the proposals before they are promoted by the Stortinget. The Committee carried out consultations on Prop. 43 L for 2015–2016, and we believe that the KS and Oslo municipalities had very good arguments to maintain municipal responsibility for dealing with matters as a result of the government making use of an exception clause in the law in order to secure housing for the reception of an extraordinary influx of refugees. However, both the municipalities and the committee stress that a time limit should be set for the decision of the municipalities and that the state authorities can review the proceedings if the municipalities do not take the necessary decisions within the time limit set for such cases. If we go back to the challenges we got with the extraordinary reception of refugees in the autumn of 2015, it is difficult to say that the municipalities did not do their job. On the contrary, they made a phenomenal effort. Many of them, especially the smallest municipalities, which are naturally more adaptable and rather to turn around, did a formidable job to get in place reception places. I saw how my municipality of residence, which in a month got reception places equivalent between 10 pst. and 15 pst. of the population in captivity, it solved in a very exemplary way. My opinion is that local authorities and the voluntary sector were the most appropriate. High settlement rates in the last year have reduced the pressure on reception capacity. Now the situation is that the municipalities are waiting to receive refugees to whom they have decided to settle. In fact, there are too few people who are ready to settle. Government, municipal and voluntary authorities are interdependent in order to ensure effective reception of refugees. In the case we are now dealing with, I do not think the department has sufficiently taken into account that good crisis solutions also require good cooperation. The legislative proposal that has been promoted is based on the fact that the dictates and overruns of the municipalities are the best, not cooperation. I am pleased that, through the committee procedure, we have put the cooperation line back in place again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1882	The left will praise the municipalities which, in an exceptional situation with increased asylum arrivals, have shown a high level of social responsibility, willingness to cooperate and contributed to the rapid establishment of reception points. Even the smallest municipalities, although of course it's more challenging when they're small and not necessarily very adaptive, have done so in an excellent way. The left shares the government's desire to set up a necessary number of reception points for the accommodation of asylum seekers must be able to take place quickly and efficiently. Today, however, municipalities have a room for action in the current planning and building law that ensures that processes are speeding up, among other things. through the possibility of delegating authority from the local authority to another body or administration. We believe that there are good arguments in favour of introducing provisions to derogate from the provisions of the Planning and Building Act in emergency situations, including to derogate from the provisions of the Neighborhood Notice Act, but the Left believes that municipalities are better placed to carry out rapid processes, because they deal with building permits and user changes as usual. Municipalities also have significant competence, detailed knowledge and resources to make correct and sensible decisions. Therefore, we believe that the decision-making authority to grant building permits and change of use must remain with the municipalities. We also consider it problematic that the government's proposal for legislative changes has not been at a general hearing, because the changes to the law will involve the transfer of responsibility and authority to take decisions on important matters from the municipalities to the state. We further point out that, by letter dated 4 January 2016 to the Committee, KS does not support the proposal that the authority to take decisions on building permits and amending permits be added to the King by the State Council to delegate to the Ministry, nor does it support the proposal to provide a general mandate for other exceptional situations in peacetime. At the Committee's hearing, several of the municipalities supported the KS's argument in principle. Furthermore, the left refers to the fact that, in its letter to the Committee on 4 January 2016, KS proposes an alternative legal provision in which the decision on the existence of a national refugee crisis may be taken by the King of the Council of State or by the Ministry. The alternative legal provision further states that decision-making powers to grant building permits and changes in use shall lie with the municipalities, but a time limit shall be introduced and the ministry may test all aspects of the case by review. We also believe that the government must come back to Stortinget with a proposal for legislative changes that, in the event of a national refugee crisis, empower municipalities to derogate from the Planning and Building Act and the Neighborhood Act. A time limit shall be set for the decision of the municipality, taken at the request of another municipal or state authority. The case shall be transferred to the department if the time limit is not met and the department may also test all aspects of the case in the event of a review. The decision on the existence of a national refugee crisis may be taken by the King of the Council of State or by the Ministry. The left considers that the proposal to introduce exceptional provisions in the Planning and Building Act that set aside municipal administrative authority, both in principle and professionally, is such an essential measure that it should have been investigated and consulted in the usual way. We agree with the assessments of the KS and other municipalities that have expressed their opinion at the hearing of the Committee in the case, that there is a need to provide for exemptions from ordinary proceedings when there is a national refugee crisis, but believe that the grounds for processing derogations must lie with the municipalities, which have a local overview and responsibility for critical infrastructure. The proposal to make the derogation general, so that it can be used even if other crises or exceptional situations of a national nature arise, is not supported. The left considers that the introduction of a temporary derogation should be limited to exceptional measures in the event of a refugee crisis and other crises. The introduction of an exception clause in the Law on Planning and Buildings, which applies more generally, must be examined and sent to consultation in the usual way before the proposal is promoted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1903	Last autumn Norway experienced a historical influx of asylum seekers. In a short time, more than 30 000 asylum seekers arrived, almost three times as many as in 2014. The extraordinary mass influx of asylum seekers led to a crisis in the UDI's receiver apparatus, including: because the UDI was unable to provide enough accommodation in ordinary processes. The acute refugee situation before Christmas gave us a lot of experience in a short time. What became clear was that the Planning and Building Act is not suitable for dealing with national emergencies in an efficient and good way. We also learned that there was a lack of coordination with other powers in other legislation, such as the law. the Health Protection Act and the Civil Protection Act, which also created challenges. Therefore, in order to ensure predictability in the event of a crisis or other exceptional situations, the government promoted a proposition on changes in the Planning and Building Act. The amendments have been proposed for a limited period of two years. As a result of the fact that the situation before Christmas was so acute and serious, we saw it as absolutely necessary at the time to deviate from ordinary processes and send the proposal for legislative changes to the Stortinget without general consultation. The aim of the legislative proposal is to ensure effective management of different types of acute situations. It may apply to pandemics, earthquakes or mountain cliffs of large dimensions. The proposal for a regulation applies only to temporary measures. Durable construction measures must follow normal processes under the Planning and Building Act. In concrete terms, the proposal allows the King, in the event of a crisis, disaster or other exceptional situation, to empower the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation to take decisions to allow concrete, temporary measures, irrespective of plans and provisions in or in compliance with the Planning and Building Act. Denmark has already adopted a similar mandate provision. I also mention that Sweden has already adopted a provision of the Planning and Building Act that allows the government to adopt temporary derogations from legal requirements to ensure that rapid decisions can be taken in the event of natural disasters. As a result of the 2015 refugee crisis, Sweden is now working to extend this derogation to other exceptional situations that may affect its preparedness for crisis. The proposal for a power of attorney is designed in the same way as other powers previously dealt with and adopted by the Stortinget. This has been done to ensure that the Stortinget does not go beyond what is provided for by other powers of attorney. It is also important that the proposed provision complements powers of attorney laid down in other legislation, since none of them opens up the possibility to set aside the planning and building law in an emergency situation. I would like to stress that the proposed provision of the Planning and Building Act cannot be used by the Ministry to set aside local self-government to take account of an acute situation that could potentially arise. In order to use the provision, an emergency situation must have arisen and the situation must be so serious that it has national consequences. As I have underlined in a letter to the Committee, I believe that the proposal to put the provision of powers to the municipalities in practice will mean that the municipalities, and especially smaller municipalities, will have a responsibility that will be far more extensive than they have experience in, and that will impose far higher requirements on the preparedness and handling of the municipalities. A few large municipalities have professional resources to handle complex issues, but this does not guarantee fast and predictable processes. The majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee recommends that the bill be returned to the Ministry and that the government return to the Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes which, in the event of a national refugee crisis, empower the municipalities to derogate from the Planning and Building Act and the Neighbourhood Act. Let me stress that it has been important for the government to have a preparedness not only for refugee situations but also for other situations. In case of pandemics or natural disasters, we need to have a law that allows you to have an effective preparedness. One consequence of the proposal for the Committee majority is that the government will produce a new legislative proposal in 2017 at the earliest. I am open to assess a proxy that is limited to the refugee situation. However, I would point out that such a restriction makes the exemption very specific, and the location in the Planning and Building Act can appear as something unnatural, all the time when the law does not specifically regulate the reception of asylum. It should not be excluded that any derogation for use in refugee situations may also be provided for by the Foreign Affairs Act, which, after all, regulates the responsibility of the State for the accommodation of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1932	As I said in my post, I regret that the department has not sent the proposals for exceptions to the Planning and Building Act at regular consultations. In the committee's proposal for a decision, we have limited the derogations to the refugee crisis. This means that, where appropriate, new derogations should be made if natural disasters and other exceptional situations are to be considered. My question is: will the Ministry come back with proposals for derogations from the Planning and Building Act in several areas and will the proposals be subject to ordinary consultation before they are promoted by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1942	Yes, we believe it is necessary to have exceptional provisions that apply more than the refugee situation. We got a lot of experience from the crisis we experienced last fall, and when we didn't send it to the hearing, it was simply because there was a very critical situation that could evolve to become even more critical beyond the year. I think this council and others would quickly get critical if we hadn't acted and the situation had actually deteriorated. We believe that derogations are necessary in other areas. We see it, among other things. in coordination with other powers laid down in the Health Protection Act, where the State can obtain private buildings from a pandemic or other, but where one has to deal with the Planning and Building Act – one cannot make an exception to it. That means we need to see these different rules in context. However, if it is time and opportunity and not a critical situation, it is obvious that there will be ordinary hearings. That's what's the main rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1951	The council said something like that in the post that there were only a few larger municipalities that could handle this if it happened again. Could the Council of State give me an example of a larger municipality that had managed to accept 15 pst. of its population without having been a challenge to the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1956	Now we're talking about two different things. It is quite right that the municipalities have largely accepted refugees and have lived far more refugees now than they have done in the past. In 2013, the municipalities received 6 000 refugees, in 2015 11 000, and in 2016 there will be 16 000. The municipalities are doing a great job, but we're talking about acute crisis situations. Then it is my opinion that there are only a few large municipalities that have the capacity, competence and experience to handle such situations, and – as I underlined in my post – we also do not want any guarantee that things will go fast enough. We're not talking about ordinary situations, we're talking about national crisis situations like in the event of a refugee crisis, natural disaster or pandemic. Then we have to be able to coordinate and coordinate also from the state. The experience of last year's harvest and the July 22 disaster show that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1961	It is possible that I was unclear in my question, but the question did not concern residence. In the crisis situation we had last autumn, municipalities were able to set up reception facilities corresponding to 15 pst. by the population. Are there examples of larger municipalities that have done the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1966	I guess it doesn't. But what we're talking about is situations where there has to be concrete exceptions to the Planning and Building Act. And it is in the assessment of exceptions to the Planning and Building Act and to be able to act quickly that we believe it is necessary to have state coordination in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1971	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1987	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e1994	The Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes in the proposal amendments to Law 15 May 2008 No. 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, i.e. the law on alienation. It is proposed to provide for a specific provision on the expulsion of fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations in Chapter 14 of the Act. At the same time, it is proposed that the Ministry should be able to authorise persons other than the Directorate for Foreign Affairs to take decisions on the expulsion of security matters. In this context, it is primarily intended to give decision-making powers to the Police Security Service in urgent cases of expulsion for fundamental national interests. Some more legislative changes have also been proposed. The bill has been at the hearing. The Committee notes that the purpose of the proposal is to clarify the legislation on the expulsion of third-country nationals for fundamental national or foreign policy reasons and to empower non-UDIs to take such expulsion decisions. The Committee notes that the Law Association, the Judiciary Service, the UDI and the UN are in favour of the proposal, while the Anti-racist Centres have critical comments on the proposal. The PST and the Police Directorate are also in favour of the proposal in their opinions. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the hearing bodies, other than the Jussenger Service and the Anti-racist Centres, are in favour of the proposal to empower persons other than the UDI to reject fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations. The UDI supports the proposal but points out that the amendment will require new procedures. UNE points out that consistency of practice and non-discrimination will be taken into account by the Ministry as the Board of Appeal. This is also supported by the Law Association in its opinion. On the other hand, anti-racist centres are critical of such a mandate. The Committee also notes that the Ministry of Proposition states that the proposal will not result in substantially more decisions on the disposal or substantial change in the allocation of resources between the various departments and that the proposal will not have significant administrative or economic implications — it is then a unanimous committee. And then just short of the proposal submitted by SV: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the legislative amendment after 2 years.’ The Labour Party will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2014	For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that there is control of our borders and with who enters the country. It is also important to clarify the legal bases, powers and responsibilities in this field – therefore I would like to mention two points: The Christian People's Party is in favour of establishing a specific provision for the expulsion of fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations. Point two: The Christian People's Party also supports the department's ability to make decisions in this type of security matter, primarily the PST. The PST is responsible for internal security and will therefore be central to the assessment of the need for those reasons to be rejected. It is also good that the proposals have had broad support in the consultation and apparently also among the parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2027	Deportation on the basis of fundamental national interests is currently a small provision. However, in the light of societal developments in recent years, the need to use such a deportation facility may be expected to increase in the future. When the need to make use of the provision increases, the Left is in favour of clarifying the basis of law and clarifying who is to have the power to take decisions. With that change, the PST will have a new decision-making competence that they do not have today. The left considers that there are sound grounds for empowering PST to take decisions on matters of fundamental national interest. This is an area where PST has special knowledge. The PST has often been involved before a decision is taken, and may have information which, because of its nature, cannot be passed on to the UDI. whereas consistency of practice and non-discrimination will be ensured by the fact that the Ministry is the Board of Appeal; In the proposal, the Ministry points out that the proposal would not result in substantially more expulsion decisions. Therefore, the scope of expulsion decisions is assumed to be very limited. However, the left considers it important to evaluate the scheme and therefore supports the SV’s proposal to initiate an evaluation of the legislative change after two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2040	I refer to the proposal which is distributed and which is not in the vote. SV supports the amendment, but like some of the hearing bodies, we have some critical comments. The intention of the proposal to have clear and sound rules for expulsion in relation to fundamental national considerations is important. As I understand the system today, it's PST that gives its advice to the UDI before they make such decisions. So there's two points that we have some notes for. One is the definition of the terms ‘with fundamental national interests’ and ‘international policy considerations’, which we believe, as they are now in the law and in the proposition, are too vague and indefinable. They should be clarified, so that you can see more clearly what this is all about. The second is the fear that the Legal Service points to, namely that one becomes more concerned with the rapid processing of proceedings than with the correct decisions. I assume that the government shares that concern and ensures that there are correct decisions in these matters that are the most important consideration, but that there is also an interest or a legitimate interest in the procedure going as quickly as possible, and preferably faster than today. Because we have had these concerns, but still choose to support the legislative change as a whole, we have submitted the proposal that an evaluation of the legislative change should be carried out after two years. It is such that the government assumes that this amendment will not result in substantially more decisions on expulsions. That means that there'll be a small number to evaluate from. It is therefore at least two years before sufficient information can be provided to evaluate the consequences of this legislative change. I still think it's sad if it doesn't become a majority to evaluate a change in the law. It should be a principle that is good, anyway. Here we are in an area where today there is a system that I cannot see there has been any other critical remark than that you want to get ahead of the procedure. As I said, it may be a legitimate consideration, but it is the consideration of making correct decisions, which must be the most important. It should be the primary task of the legislator to ensure that this is what happens in the application of the laws adopted by the Grand Duchy. SV will support the setting and ask the parties in Stortinget to consider proposal No. 1 that one should also have an evaluation after two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2057	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2060	There is no doubt that there is a need for a change in this legislation, and what the government has proposed is very well justified. This amendment has not come to solve everyday problems. It is a regulation to act in situations where the internal security, public health or public order of Norway or another Schengen country is threatened. Occasionally it will be necessary to expel a foreigner because of fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations, and sometimes it will be necessary to act quickly. Therefore, the amendment of the law confers upon the police or the PST the power to take decisions after the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 126. It can then be pointed out and argued, as some hearing bodies do, that concepts such as ‘basic national interests’ and ‘international policy considerations’ are vague or difficult to grasp, but there is a need to show a wise understanding on the part of the police when such expulsion is to be carried out. But e.g. before the terror in July 2011 no one imagined that such terror could take place. The lesson from that time is that we must plan for the unexpected, for the unforeseeable. Therefore, relatively wide powers are needed to implement the right measures at the right time, and here we have full confidence in the assessment capacity of the PST in the Progress Party. So it's a little funny when the SV in their comments is critical that the PST should have this authority, but the UDI agrees, and then it gets weird. At that time, this committee position should be able to reach unanimous agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2071	An important part of our security and preparedness is to secure our borders and provide PST with good tools to address threats to our security. In today's Europe, we have to assume that people can come to Norway who are planning to commit serious crime. I therefore welcome the broad support for the proposals we have made in this matter. It is important that the legislation on the expulsion of third-country nationals for fundamental national interests and foreign policy reasons is as clear and transparent as possible. Therefore, I believe it is right to explicitly regulate expulsion in such cases in Chapter 14 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which specifically regulates security matters. I also believe that it is necessary to allow the PST to take decisions in acute cases where there is a need to intervene in order to protect against terrorism or other serious security threats. In these matters, time is a critical factor. The PST is responsible for national security and it is therefore necessary that they may also have the possibility of expulsion in specific cases. What kind of cases can this apply to? For example, in an emergency situation with ongoing terrorist actions in Europe, PST receives: tips from a collaborative service on concerns related to named persons on their way to Norway with aeroplanes. Or the PST may receive concrete and classified information that information is available through secret surveillance that persons present at an ongoing event in Norway pose a threat. The issues are urgent, and the information cannot be shared with the UDI. I notice that the member of the Committee from SV is concerned with the degree of likelihood that the person who is being rejected will actually commit harmful acts. In this context, I show that this is affected on page 8 of the bill. It has been shown that the probability requirement will depend on the severity of the threat. It is in the nature of the case that a threat to fundamental national interests would easily be a major harm. This suggests that a lower risk should also be sufficient for expulsion. It has also been pointed out to the Supreme Court that even a limited risk could form the basis for the more serious reaction to expulsion. I also remind you that expulsion decisions can only be taken against non-residents without a residence permit. Where the foreigner has a residence permit, consideration must be given, where appropriate, to the grounds for expulsion, in which case a decision shall be taken by the ministry, with the possibility of subsequent judicial proceedings. I have also noticed that the member of the Committee from SV questions whether the PST has the right competence and focus to assess expulsion cases. As stated, the PST has a national internal safety responsibility and is therefore particularly appropriate to assess the need for expulsion for safety reasons. As stated in the legislative proposal, the relevant cases could contain classified information that cannot be communicated to the UDI, and the UDI must therefore, at present, base on PST’s assessments without being fully aware of the basis for the assessments. Then I think it's a much better system that the PST in acute cases makes decisions itself. In any event, the decisions may be referred to the Ministry as the Board of Appeal. I am pleased that it now appears that an overall committee is behind the proposed legislative changes. I think it's absolutely necessary in the time we're in. We must take the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2115	This matter, which is, moreover, a unanimous committee behind it, both comments and suspension, concerns participation in the dividend share programme and capital increase in Statoil ASA. The Committee points out that the Board of Statoil ASA announced on its capital market day of 4 February 2016 that the Board of Directors will submit proposals for a two-year dividend share programme for consideration at the Statoil General Assembly on 11 May, i.e. tomorrow. The proposal for dividend shares will be an offer to the company’s shareholders to receive all or part of their cash dividends in newly issued shares at a discounted price. In practice, this is achieved by using dividends received to subscribe for new shares through a capital increase in the company. If shareholders choose to receive dividends in the form of newly issued shares, the company’s total dividend payment in cash will be reduced. As stated in the proposal, the Statoil Board points out that the dividend programme is expected to strengthen Statoil financially in a situation of low or present oil and gas prices. The dividend share programme shall be a tool to strengthen Statoil’s financial capacity to invest in profitable projects in a situation of low, variable and uncertain prices. The Board of Directors has also stressed that Statoil should be able to use the same financial instruments as several of its competitors, among others. Total, Shell and BP, to mention someone. The Committee is of the opinion that the State should participate in the dividend share programme of Statoil ASA. The Committee considers that the State should seek to select the same share and the same amount of cash as the other shareholders do in total. This will safeguard the state's interests and will keep the state's ownership of the entire programme constant. Finally, the Committee points out that, according to the proposal, the Ministry of Oil and Energy assumes that the State will maintain its 67 pst holding. in Statoil ASA, as the Stortinget has previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2130	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2144	We are dealing with the Proposition on the Convention between Norway and Finland on the Construction and Maintenance of Reindeers and Other Measures. The starting point for this case is that since 1852, we have prevented pure from crossing the border. Until 1852, the rent was free, but since 1852, we've had a distinction. From 1922 we have had three agreements regulating cross-border reindeer operations between Norway and Finland. The purpose of the convention currently under consideration is to regulate the allocation of responsibilities for the construction and maintenance of fences and other measures to prevent clean crossing the border between the two countries, and to regulate the follow-up when clean still crosses the border. The convention we have for treatment will also lead to fences being constructed on the most vulnerable routes, which are expected to reduce the problem of clean crossing the border. The Convention also provides for more functional and effective compensation schemes when strictly crossing the border and doing damage. Furthermore, the Convention provides for the possibility of promoting recourse to the owners of the injured person. There is an obligation on every reindeer – and the Committee has also clarified – to keep its own clean in order to avoid, as far as possible, the entry of the reindeer into the territory of the second kingdom and the need for the fences to support the owner’s duty to watch. The Committee has underlined this. Prior to the conclusion of this Convention, there is an impact assessment both from the Norwegian and from the Finnish side. The solution now available means that no fences are being built in the area where a fence will have the most negative effects on natural diversity, outdoor life and cultural memories. Where fences are to be included on the Norwegian side of the border, remedial measures shall be implemented as far as possible, in accordance with the impact assessment. In the case of cultural memories, the Sameting shall be given the opportunity to comment on whether the action will affect known cultural memories and whether the action requires further registration. The work on the construction of the fence shall take place after dialogue both with the County of Finnmark and with the Sametinget. With regard to the economic impact of this convention, we have now spent between 10 and 15 million. kr on the construction of the reindeer. In addition to that, no new financial expenses will be paid, as the matter is presented to us. There have been consultations with the Sameting and NRL and they have agreed to this Convention. Article 26 shows that the Convention is in force for 30 years from the date of its entry into force. If not cancelled at the latest five years before the end of that period, it shall be extended for a further 10 years and shall subsequently be deemed to be extended for 10 years at a later date, unless it is cancelled two years before the end of that 10 year period. With this case we have also had changes to the reindeer management law. If that's okay, I'm also taking what's a consequence of this convention. There are amendments to the Reinforcement Act which incorporates the Convention of 9 December 2014 between Norway and Finland on the construction and maintenance of reindeer and other measures to prevent reindeer entering the territory of the second kingdom. The Committee agrees with the amendments made to the Act on Repurchase Management as a result of the Convention, which a Joint Committee also endorses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2181	Case No. 9, regarding changes to the reindeer management law, was just commented on by the case rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants the word in that context? – Then we don’t think so, and we move on to case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2197	Although international trade has increased, there are still significant differences in the welfare of modern economies and emerging economies that are not fully modern and mature. There are also large differences between countries. It is a fact that small countries are more dependent on cross-border trade than large countries. Our own country is a good example of that. Exports of, inter alia, fish, oil and gas have been and are the basis of our well-being. It is thus a joint committee which supports the priorities of the government with free trade agreements. In addition to promoting economic interests for Norway, free trade agreements are intended to bring about the respect of human rights, good governance, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainable development in all international trade, and not least to preserve the general functioning of trade in other foreign and development policy interests. I feel that there is good and broad agreement about these superior principles. Work in Stortinget with Meld was also fixed. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Committee thus supports the initiative of the Government and EFTA for more free trade agreements to hold references to human rights, labour rights, the environment, anti-corruption and corporate social responsibility. There is a single committee which welcomes the fact that such a principle is to be agreed upon by an attempt to negotiate into agreements where such references are not already part of the free trade agreement. Then it is that the vast majority of countries are lit with both open and free markets, and that a country strengthens its national competitiveness based on open and free competition, rather than protectionism and artificial support for own business, in order to get to a hall. This is well documented and a disconcerting principle in the WTO. A survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2014 shows a high level of support for such openness and free trade. Developing countries were most positive in global and open markets, and trade has been widely accepted to contribute to increasing economic growth and development. Trade is important to create jobs and wealth growth, and not least to reduce poverty. This is well documented. Conversely, increasing barriers to trade will reduce economic growth and employment. It is good that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not take part in a plural comment. We are well pleased with the way the government follows up free trade agreements, and we are also pleased with how the previous government followed up such agreements. In a corresponding note in the Report Configuration. St. 29 for 2014-2015 on globalisation and trade, which we have recently discussed here in Stortinget, it was only SV and the Zenterpartie that were behind such a similar remark. I believe that there is no change in policy with this, despite this remark, because it has long been a perception that Norway can play a role internationally with other like-minded countries to help with initiatives and compromises in the field of trade policy, with the intention that the basic rules of the WTO are followed. A central issue is whether the right to introduce national regulations and barriers is limited by international trade obligations. What is certain is that when a State enters into a free trade agreement with EFTA, it does not give itself the right to secure other important interests such as consumer rights, supervisory needs, public health and environmental and security requirements. This is and will still be a matter for each country. The WTO also recognises the need for members to regulate important national concerns. This is reflected in the WTO Agreement and in all bilateral free trade agreements based on the WTO. This is included in our EFTA agreements. Even if I perceive the plural comment to be contrary to what the majority meant in connection with the treatment of Report. St. 29 for 2014-2015 on globalisation and trade, I believe that the idea might not be that we should take this view. But as mentioned, there's a good reason why the Right and the Advance Party are not included in that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2231	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2245	In this case, the Committee is consensual, and it may be appropriate to thank the Committee for that. It is good that all parties can see that EEA legal obligations for Norway also have positive sides. That's exactly what this is all about, we're going to create a national register with information on public support. In any case, we have an obligation to provide ESA with information on such public support, and there is a joint committee that welcomes such a register, which will be searchable, open and accessible to others, and this in turn can contribute to more openness in public support. It is not only ESA, which we already have reporting obligations to, that can benefit from the register, but also other public bodies and others that need such information. The Committee also supports the Government's proposal that the registration threshold be set in its own regulation and that the register itself be part of the Brønnøysundregistra. The Committee takes the view that the additional cost of this administration is relatively modest, against the level of support and the benefit of more openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2268	Today's setting is the result of Prop processing. 66 L for 2015–2016 on amendments to the Law on Innovation Norway, Responsibilities and Management. This is a further treatment of Prop. 89 L for 2014-2015 on changes to the Law on Innovation Norway, ownership and management of the company, after the Storting order that time. I would first like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation and for the fact that we now have an attitude that the majority can stand for. I would also like to thank the government for the follow-up to Stortingen's calls, which lead to changes in the responsibilities and management of Innovation Norway, but that the ownership structure of the company remains firm. What we are likely to adopt today will have an impact on the development of business and value creation in Norway in the future. I am very pleased that the majority realizes that it is important that Innovation Norway gives a greater room for opportunity to operate its business. This gives the Norwegian Innovation Council greater scope for action to shape customer contact, process and decision-making systems for the best for businesses, entrepreneurs and the business and business environment. At a time when thousands of people have lost their income, it is important that we, as politicians, do what we can to promote value creation and innovation. This decision is therefore particularly important in this way. An important part of giving greater scope for action to Innovation Norway is to lift the requirement of the law on regional governance. This will in no way lead to the centralisation of power of the company where decisions are taken on the basis of less knowledge – I can stress this as a former regional board member over many years. This will, however, facilitate the company to find the decision-making structure best suited to good practice. It is Innovation Norway that knows its decision-making process best, and therefore I am pleased that the majority are in favour of the company deciding this for themselves. The company can then see more clearly that one has an organisation that is adapted to the different needs of the regions. The decision will otherwise involve some minor differences between the Act on Innovation Norway and general company law. In this context, I am pleased that the enterprise becomes responsible for its own obligations, in line with the general rule of sectoral policy companies. I would like to recommend with this the setting of changes to the Act on Innovation Norway, Responsibilities and Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2283	There is no need for speaking time here today, but I would like to say something related to Innovation Norway because this is an important matter. The purpose of Innovation Norway is to be the country’s and county municipality’s instrument for realising value-creating industrial development throughout the country. At a time of low oil prices, increasing unemployment and a business life in demanding conversion, the work of Innovation Norway is more important than ever. However, if Innovation Norway is to achieve the objective of raising more entrepreneurs who can contribute to value creation in this country, it is important to create and provide a better framework for ownership management, for the management of the company and for the development of Innovation Norway as such. This was also due to the fact that the Storting treated Prop. 89 L for 2014-2015 in December 2014. The proposals put forward here mean that the Board of Innovation Norway provides greater scope for the design of customer contact, processing and decision-making systems for the best interests of entrepreneurs, businesses and innovation and business environments. This is a development supported by the Left. The left has also been committed to organising Innovation Norway so that county and regional needs are properly addressed. During treatment with Prop. 89 L for 2014–2015, several consultations were held to suggest that Innovation Norway should have greater freedom of organisation. Therefore, the Left supported the repeal of the legislation of regional governments, and there is an important reason why I have spoken on this matter. We believe that such a suspension does not prevent regional governments from continuing where appropriate — where appropriate — and we believe that regional ties will not be reduced, even if the law of regional governments ceases to exist. The repeal of the legislation of regional governments will help in finding the decision-making structure that best meets the requirements of good practice. It will also allow Innovation Norway to organise customer contact and internal resources to adapt them at all times to the different needs of the different regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2296	The purpose of the amendments to the Act on Innovation Norway is to create a better framework for ownership management, management of the company and for the development of Innovation Norway as an organisation. A Joint Committee stresses the importance of organising activities in order to properly address county and regional needs. Innovation Norway’s aim is to be the instrument of state and county municipalities to realise value-creating industrial development throughout the country. The company shall cooperate with regional actors and cooperation shall be regulated through its own agreements between the company and the individual operator. It is positive that the main board of Innovation Norway will have greater scope for action to develop customer contact, processing and decision-making systems, for the benefit of entrepreneurs, businesses and innovation and business environments. It is also positive that the difference between the Act on Innovation Norway and general company law is reduced and that the company becomes responsible for its own obligations in line with the general rule for sectoral policy companies. These changes allow Innovation Norway’s local offices to specialise and build strong professional environments based on regional needs and also have national tasks and responsibilities in different areas. This will strengthen Innovation Norway’s regional task. At the same time, the role of the county council as a contracting entity is strengthened and the interaction between county councils and Innovation Norway is confirmed by partnership. This will contribute to less bureaucracy and better decision-making processes. The decision today is that it shared ownership between the State and the county councils is maintained. The Governing Council shall be amended from six to nine members, who shall be of the size of the Governing Board of today. We are pleased that a majority of the Committee supports the proposal to repeal the legal requirement on regional governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2309	Innovation Norway is an important tool for contributing to value creation. It is an important principle that Innovation Norway should have a local anchor. Therefore, it was gratifying that there was no majority in favour of lifting the county co-ownership in Innovation Norway, and the Senterpartiet, like the Workers' Party and the SV, does not agree that a lifting of the legal requirement for regional governments in Innovation Norway. I just took the word to stress that the Centre Party, like the Workers' Party and the SV, has made clear our primary position in Innst. 131 L for 2015–2016, where we had that discussion. We therefore did not see the need to take a new round on it in this setting. The setting has also been highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2316	Initially, I didn't intend to take the floor on this matter, but I got a strong need for it when the posts, especially those from the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, came. Let me start with a little metaphor: there was a conversion of the fishing offices in Norway recently. Among other things, the fishing office at Skjervøy was laid down and decided to move to my home town, Tromsø. The two persons on Skjervøy had contact with and knowledge of all nutritionists in the region. It is a region that exports fish for 3 to 3.5 billion. kr per year. They all knew. The reason was that a person had to create a stronger professional environment, and thus a localization in Tromsø. Those who were offered to move to Tromsø, thank you no, and the positions were replaced by newcomers from the University of Tromsø, a university I have attended – and I have every reason to recommend people to go there. But they're not in the vicinity of having the same knowledge of the subject. The metaphor is meant to tell something very important: we can't develop an administration and a support system in this country that doesn't understand places. That is why SV does not support the proposal to repeal the decisions on regional governance in Innovation Norway. For what was the whole rationale for creating these regional governments initially? It was such an ordinary idea that it is those who wear their shoes, who know best where he prints. Should a good decision be made, a know-how must be provided. On a case-by-case basis, which this government allows to sail through this room, a proposal proposes measures that ignore places, geography and local levels and replace them by a form of cityless, objective procedure. It is not difficult to read out from the proposal that this is precisely what will be included in the reorganization of Innovation Norway. The reason why this takes a lot of time, which can be used for customer contact, is a strawman's argument. What's the real reason for this is that you want a much more comprehensive reorganization of Innovation Norway, which decides, for example, includes exciting ideas on Senja, to be taken entirely elsewhere than in the vicinity of Senja. We are in danger of very good ideas not being understood because one does not understand the places where this happens. If the solution to the major challenges we face in this country, with increasing unemployment and major structural challenges in the Norwegian economy, is to move the decisions away from where this value creation is going to take place, then one on the wild path. SV will not vote for this and will also strongly warn against other, similar, proposals that do not understand locations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2331	Innovation Norway is known as a special law company where the state owns 51 pst. and each of the counties 2,6 pst. Innovation Norway is an organisation that receives more than 40 letters of allocation each year, with 16 directors, 22 home offices and 36 outhouses. I believe that a well-functioning Innovation Norway is very important — perhaps more important than ever — for the transformation and development of Norwegian business. And despite the latest contributions, my motivation to propose changes in Innovation Norway has been to adapt the skills and efforts of offices around Norway to different needs in the regions. On 19 January this year, the Grand Duchy examined a proposal for changes to Innovation Norway, and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg showed a broad consensus on the overall leadership of Innovation Norway: it should be the instrument of the State and the counties, and it should contribute to the economic and corporate development of the economy throughout the country. This consensus is in line with the dialogue we have conducted with the county councils in the preparation of the legislative changes. I also believe that a broad consensus on the main leads is a very good starting point for the contracting entities, and that is a good starting point for ownership. The agreement on the main lines is also a good thing for Innovation Norway and for the company to be able to offer ever better and more relevant services to Norwegian business. On the government side, we have followed up the Storting's request of 19 January to come back with a revised proposal to amend the law. It is a government's wish that the specific legislation for Innovation Norway should be more similar to the general company law, and the Industry Committee also points to this in its position. Clear responsibilities and well-known principles of good ownership and corporate governance reduce uncertainty and enable an established framework to address small and large governance challenges. Then there has been a somewhat different view of how the Innovation Norway Framework should be designed, but the Storting decision of 19 January gave some clear leadership for a new proposal, and of course they have been followed up by the government. I believe that the amendments that have now been proposed will help to make the board more accountable. The Management Board will have the capacity to organise application and customer contact for the best interests of Innovation Norway's customers, and the changes will contribute to the greater adaptability of district offices to regional needs. The changes also facilitate the creation of a wide-ranging board of directors of Innovation Norway with members from all parts of the country, and they will facilitate the active contribution of Innovation Norway to the development of businesses in the regions. There's something both the county councils and I'm concerned about in our joint ownership exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2346	Only briefly on SV’s warning against the repeal of regional governance requirements and the feeling that it makes no sense. I myself have a seat on the board of regional SND offices and I see how this works in practice. It is not the case that these controllers have unlimited powers. It's like these controllers have powers that they also give to the administration. In addition, an application has, and if applications are within the programme category, they are automatically granted as long as the funds are available. In addition, these regional governments must also send large applications to the central government. In sum, regional governments are left with relatively small numbers and become sand-sprays in many ways. Then it becomes strange to compare this with a fishing office with two added ones that know almost every fish and every boat. We're a small country with a small population. I think we have to take inwards that if we don't manage this in a rational and good way and don't use unnecessary resources, we're going to put costs on the administrative side in such a way that it simply doesn't make sense, and it doesn't seem like any future or any of the people who are out of work today. It is simply about creating a cost-effective society that uses resources in the best possible way. We can take another example, tax collectors alone in an office in a municipality – we have it in our municipality. The proposal for these to be gathered was downgraded. When you have to organize it so that for every single man who has a task, it has to be adapted – with office equipment, computer systems and everything that needs to be – and we have to have it so widely distributed, it becomes so ineffective that it is simply not up-to-date, to use a good, new Norse word. We can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2355	I thought we had finished discussing this matter, me too, but I just have to say that one gets a little engaged when one sits and hears the council say that one agreed on the overall lines of what came into the proposal. That's exactly what we weren't. We did not want to repeal the law with regard to the regional governments, and we wanted the county to remain a joint owner – that would not be the government. Now the government lost in one case and won in the other – on the two points – but it's not like this is one thing that we initially wanted to land like this, from our point of view. So to Oskar J. Grimstad, who says he's been sitting on this board locally -- there's the two of us. But I think he's been sitting there a long time ago, because he said he was sitting when it was the SND office. It's been quite a while. Now it's called Innovation Norway. When I was on that board, it was a very good idea when we were dealing with the issues, that we had knowledge of regional business. It wasn't a bureaucratic process at all, it was dealt with quickly and efficiently. Those who worked there had provided a good material to deal with matters, and it was important, at least I think, that there were regional actors who know the business community, who put and treated them. Unfortunately, it won't be that possibility now, but we're going to make sure that the main board is well represented with representatives from all over the country, and that you don't lose that contact and knowledge. And then it's interesting to see if some of the states are still allowed to have regional governments. It can actually be a part that wants it. How it's rigged forward, we're going to be careful.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2364	When it comes to the argument of the representative Grimstad, I find it a little special that his problem with the regional government was that he had too little influence and thus went in to remove them completely from the map. The logical conclusion of his reasoning would, of course, be to develop regional governance to have a greater role, so that the local and regional levels had a greater role to play in this work, while they are now being completely erased. It seemed to me to be a bit strange input to this question. So to both the representative Grimstad and the state council's reasoning: it's to read out both the setting and the posts that the company will be the target. It seems like you've forgotten something very important when it comes to Innovation Norway, and it's that yes, it's a company, but it's our most important tool to promote ideas around the country. It's not just a company that we're going to have some kind of governance relationship with and care for the expenses of; it's a company that we're going to use actively, at risk, to raise ideas around the whole country. And when companies become the goal, I can understand these decisions -- save money because it seems like it's a waste of money to have regional government. But if the goal is actually to lift ideas around the whole country, this project is completely the wrong way to go. So it's that the county is to be taken out of ownership, which is the central part of this, and that's part of the long-term work of taking from the county a role in regional development, built on God knows what idea. If the state does not have a role in developing business in its region, and if one from the state knows this better, then one has taken a very special position, especially towards all of us big business representatives who actually come from these states, who are going to try to do our best in the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2373	I have a brief comment on the statements by the representative Fylkesnes, which I see as quite contradictory about what has been the intention behind this amendment. The embellishment of the requirements for the organisation of innovation Norway has just opened up to more specialised presence, with stronger professional competence, e.g. on fish and fisheries in which it is operated. It strengthens rather than weakens the presence of Innovation in Norway. The point is not that the company should find out what are the good things in the future, but they should help private ideas further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2393	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2407	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2413	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2420	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a separate case for the future organisation of the practical theological seminary, which includes an assessment of the need for a practice centre in the church’s own direction for various professional training courses aimed at church activities.’ The voting boards showed that 90 votes were cast against and 12 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.27.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2443	Is there any votes that have not been registered? - That's it. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2842	Alternatively, point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 23 shall be substituted for proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2862	It is then voted over in the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 23. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 52 votes were cast in favour and 51 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.28.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2873	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2878	There was a lot of doubt here. Then we take the vote again. So it's voted over in Section 23, fourth paragraph, second sentence. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2893	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2902	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2911	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Case No. 2 was an own-initiative debate, and therefore there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2920	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Stine Renate Håheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by André N. Skkelstad, on behalf of the Left and the Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that direct electricity for heating may be approved as the only heating solution if the energy is produced from plus house solutions in the building or solar panels or a combination of these.’;» The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2953	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement of 40 pst. of the net heat demand for construction below the area limit of 1000 m2 may be covered by energy supply other than direct electricity.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e2974	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the land border from the building technical regulation applicable until 31 December 2015 of 500 m2 heated BRA as a distinction between different energy supply requirements in the new construction technical regulation applicable from 1 January 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of the regulation from the building technical regulation in force until 31 December 2015 of electricity used directly for heating purposes with requirements for construction to be designed and carried out in such a way that 40 pst respectively. and 60 pst. of net heat needs can be covered by other energy supplies, depending on the area limit, in the new building technical regulation applicable from 1 January 2016.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3000	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a Norwegian definition of near-zero-energy level is developed in close dialogue between authorities, industry operators and other relevant actors.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3018	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement of 60 pst. of the net heat demand for buildings above the area limit of 1000 m2 may be covered by energy supply other than direct electricity.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3047	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3077	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jan Bøhler, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that a new government quarter becomes a zero-emission building in the construction, operational and disposal phases, contributes to innovation in climate technology and becomes a plus-house in operation.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3104	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the tender criteria and the contract size of the project are redesigned in such a way that Norwegian industry can participate in the tendering process in a competitive manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and assess how the construction of a new government quarter can be used to demonstrate and promote the use of wood.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3142	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: In Law 27 June 2008 No. 71 on planning and processing of construction works is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3207	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3222	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3304	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3313	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the legislative amendment after 2 years.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3433	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3442	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3559	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e3568	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4216	It is first referred to in the first paragraph of Section 14 and Paragraphs 36(a) and II(1) and (2).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4225	The rest of I and II are voted on. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4238	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4247	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4254	Case No. 14 and 15 relate to the second processing of legislative acts and to legislative acts 54 and 55. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-10.ana.ud2214e4310	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting ends? - The meeting's been cancelled.
