ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e64	Honourable co-representatives! Former deputy Georg Apenes is dead, 76 years old. Georg Apenes was born on 5 April 1940 in Fredrikstad. He graduated from Artium in 1959 and became Cand.jur. in 1969. During his studies, he was chairman of the Norwegian Student Society. After a period as a judge in West Telemark, he worked as a journalist and editorial secretary in Fredriksstad Blad until he was elected to the Stortinget in 1977. The apes represented Eastfold on the Stortinget for 12 years. He was a member of several committees: the Administrative Committee, the Church and Education Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Justice Committee. Georg Apenes always worked closely on matters regardless of committee position, but in retrospect it is probably the work of the Judicial Committee that appoints itself. Here he could combine professional weight and ability to think in principle about criminal policy and monitoring issues. From 1981 he was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which he participated with life and desire. He was also a deputy member of the Nordic Council and a delegate to the UN General Assembly. His contributions from the Stockholm pulpit were marked by great expertise and glittering art of formulation. He was a pedagogue of rank, which also expressed itself in a wide range of books and debates on issues that were close to his heart: legal certainty, freedom of expression, the rights of the individual and the distribution of power in society. In 1989, Georg Apenes was appointed Director of the Data Protection Agency – a position he held for over 20 years. He came to shape the institution, not least by giving privacy issues a far more important place than before in people's consciousness. The exposure to privacy at a time of increasing monitoring and control requirements did not stop at retirement age. Until recently, Georg Apenes was active in the fight for privacy, among others. through the Digital Privacy Organisation. Over many years, Apenes was an active member of Pressen's professional selection, where he was also chairman in the years 1976–1977. He was a member of a wide range of public selections, among others. the ethics committee of the NAVF Medical Research Council and the Animal Ethics Council. He was also a member of the Broadcasting Council from 1990 to 1992. Georg Apenes was the knight of the 1st class of the Order of St. Olav. We remember Georg Apenes for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e87	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e108	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e124	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e133	In June this year, the Stortinget adopted the incorporation of the legal acts establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors and some other legal acts, the law on EEA Financial Supervision and some other amendments to the Securities Trading Act and the law on credit rating agencies in the EEA Agreement. This matter has a long history and was the subject of extensive discussion and debate before the decision in June. It is therefore not whether Norway should include EU financial supervision and some other legal acts that affect this in the EEA Agreement, we are going to decide today. Today we are going to deal with the proposition where the government proposes the legislative changes that follow the implementation of the new EEA legislation in the financial market area in Norwegian law. According to the Government, the proposals for legislative changes will align and simplify Norwegian legislation in this area, as announced by the Government in Prop. 127 L, which was also treated in June. In its observations on the matter, the Committee stressed that the draft legal rules had been consulted by a number of relevant bodies. The views of these are reflected in the case and more detailed on the Ministry's website. The Ministry comments on the replies to the hearing and explains the follow-up to the hearing replies. They show that some of the recordings from the hearing bodies have been taken into account in the design of the legislation. Hearing replies point out that the implementation of the relevant EEA acts in Norwegian law may incur costs for some market players, as also announced in Prop. 127 L, in June. It is pointed out in the case that the amendments can only be brought into force once the EEA Committee has adopted a decision incorporating the relevant acts into the EEA Agreement. The case and the proposals for amendments to the various laws have been thoroughly explained in the case. The majority of the Financial Committee supports the proposals in its vote. A minority of the Committee voted against the proposals for inclusion in the EEA Agreement of certain acts establishing the European System of Financial Supervisors and some other acts in June. They do not therefore agree with the proposals for changes in Prop. 166 L, which we treat here today. I'm assuming that the minority itself explains its position. I recommend the recommendation of the Financial Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e146	In June the Storting consented to Norwegian participation in EEA Committee decisions to take the so-called ‘supervisory agency’ regulations and some other EU acts into the EEA Agreement. The EEA Committee adopted these decisions on 30 September. As early as June, the Storting adopted legal provisions for the implementation of these decisions in Norwegian law. However, the bill stated that we would come back with impact adjustments and regulatory simplifications after a hearing. In today’s proposal, such proposals have been made for some legislative changes that are impact-adjusting and streamlining implementation in Norwegian law through adaptations to the provisions adopted by the Stortinget on 13 June of this year. The provisions adopted by the Stortinget in June implemented regulations establishing EU financial supervision, credit rating agencies, short selling rules and rules on CCPs and clearing and reporting of OTC derivatives trading. The adaptations currently proposed are impact adjustments in the Norwegian legislation for the implementation of those Regulations. These changes will improve the structure and accessibility of Norwegian legislation to users. In the work on the proposal, five responses were received with comments. None of the hearing bodies was negative to the proposal and the comments were essentially of a technical nature. Finance Norway underlined the importance of these rules now being implemented in Norwegian law. The observations of the hearing bodies have been largely followed up and the proposition has been simplified in line with the recordings. The EEA Financial Supervision Act proposes only minor technical adjustments, including: to facilitate the sharing of information between the Norwegian authorities and the EFTA Court. The law on credit rating agencies proposes consistency adjustments in Norwegian law to the new regulations, including: regulatory homes, rules on the exchange of information and rules on penalties. The rules on short selling in the Securities Trading Act propose regulatory homes and provisions on penalties. The proposal also proposes a number of complementary provisions to the rules on the management of alternative investment funds, which were not dealt with at the time of the adoption of the law on management. I have noticed that the majority of the committee has joined the proposals. I have also noticed minority proposals from the Center Party. I therefore emphasise once again that this legislative proposal involves only adaptation of the Norwegian legislation to the implementation of what has been adopted by the Stortinget. I focus on good information to the market on the phasing-in of the new rules, and it aims to ensure that the rules implementing the Regulation on short selling, adopted by the Stortinget in June, come into force together with the now proposed impact adjustments on 1 January 2017 and that the rules implementing the EMIR can enter into force on the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e153	I really wanted to say that the Storting had a thorough handling of this matter in ours. We didn't. There was a matter that was rushed through in Stortinget. Fortunately, however, we were given a hearing on the transfer of power from the Norwegian pottery to the EU’s financial supervision, and we were able to get some thorough rounds afterwards. The government had a desire to get that matter through as quickly as possible to get the least debate possible. We have the same objections now that we had. We believe that this is a system that is pure copy decisions, in which we transfer real power from the Norwegian bigges, from Norwegian financial supervision to EU bodies, to EU financial supervision, and we believe that this is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. That's why we repeat the resistance we had in ours, and suggest that this should be sent back to the government, because we believe that this is contrary to our constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e160	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Since part of the business committee is not present, case No. 3 will be taken up for consideration after case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e181	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e190	A Joint Committee refers to the importance of maritime safety and therefore shares the intention of the proposers to focus on safety in the use of recreational craft. Several are getting such boats, while the amount of horsepower is growing. This is why it is particularly important to prevent injuries and fatal accidents. It is important that those who run recreational boats also have adequate competence to prevent accidents at sea. We see in the letter from the Minister of Industry that there is already a great deal of attention from both authorities and other actors to bring down the accident rate for recreational boats, and that action has been taken to increase knowledge of the safety of boat travel, good holds, good seamanship and the introduction of mandatory boat driver tests and information campaigns. The float vest requirement is also an example of this remark. The Government, in its submission to the 2017 State Budget, has proposed to increase the promise made to the Government’s Committee on Disasters for Transport, which will allow the Commission to investigate more marine casualties. In addition, the government in the draft budget argues that the Coastal Agency will allocate measures to strengthen the security of recreational craft. Now, as pointed out in the setting, there is a need for a common strategy and to coordinate efforts to succeed in achieving the objective of reducing accidents. This matter has also been sent to the Transport and Communications Committee, which shall state the following: ‘The committee sees the Message Management. St. 35 S [[2015-2016]] A Joint Committee asks the Government to draw up, as a follow-up, a comprehensive communication on better interaction between all actors in the field of prevention of maritime safety and coastal preparedness, and that such a communication should also address accidents related to the use of recreational craft, and one suggests it in the Innst. 72 S for 2016-2017. As a result, the intentions of the draft representative would be respected, and we look forward to receiving this big message. So there will probably be no special debate in this matter today. I recommend this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e228	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e237	I'm sorry on behalf of an entire committee. We were sitting in a ‘blush meeting’, and then the fire alarm was removed in the other building. Therefore, there was a bad encounter on the first two issues. We may not be fully prepared for this either. In the case of top industrial centres, the government agrees to investigate. We all agree that Norwegian industry and the whole of Norwegian society face major challenges in terms of automation and digitisation. We're going to a new era. First, the government has intervened and supported the investigation work around the Norwegian top industrial centre. It has been announced that this is coming back to the industry message coming out in the spring, and a government budget has also been adopted to investigate it in order to get back to it in the RNB in the spring. I think it actually makes a comment. We see the need for conversion that the Norwegian economy has. We have to get new legs to stand on. The industry we have is good, but it faces major challenges in meeting new trends, and – as I said – the challenges of digitisation and automation. With that, I really think I'll just leave the case. We'll get back to that discussion later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e246	I'm not going to say that I was taken to bed at the committee meeting, but at least we had to jump pretty fast to get here. It is important to have a clear and offensive industrial policy. This case is one of the issues that is important to raise it. We need an industrial policy that builds up under increased value creation and to secure and create new jobs. We need an industrial policy that sets the right framework conditions for future industrial development, and we need an industrial policy that builds up under home flagging, not flagging out. When we found the oil at the end of the 1960s, we gradually rigged an important framework for how to build up in this industry. The Oil Fund, the Code of Action, the Rules of Depreciation, etc. was one of the things we took care of. Now, of course, the challenge for the Council of State is what we do when we are going to develop our industry further. We like to think that we are at the forefront of innovation and new technology in Norway, and so are we in many ways. But when we see the report from the Nordic Council, which shows that we are behind the Swedes and Danes in terms of robotization, I think it is important to take up that competition and see it in a constructive and positive way. That report shows that we are at least digitized and automated in the Nordic region. Our neighbouring countries have 150 robots per 10,000 industrial employees, while Norway has 40. We are pleased that state-owned companies that are high-tech companies, such as the Kongsberg Group and Telenor, have taken initiatives to increase the focus on digitisation and sharing of competences at a national level. We must dare to have ambitions and bets, and we must dare to build the best layers. The Labour Party has had its own industrial committee working on the industrial policy of the future, and we have adopted a number of offensive proposals. The creation of a top industrial centre was one of the proposals, based on the recordings of Walter Qvam from the Kongsberg Group, among others. I've come with you. He is really the father of this proposal. So the social partners have been very constructive and active in that job. On the basis of this proposal by Terje Lien Aasland, Odd Omland, Tore Hagebakken and I, we think it is very positive that the Council of State supported this – not least under Arendalsuka. It was a very good event, which also showed that we are here and want to run this race. But we also have expectations that the framework around this top industrial centre will be clear when the industry message comes. The government has little time to show the country what kind of industrial policy it wants to pursue because the industry message has let it wait. I believe that Sverre Narvesen in NCE Raufoss says it is very clear that Norway needs a clear industrial policy. Then it's a job for us who are politicians and who have the power to show that we can deliver on it. We are pleased that we have a committee that is behind this, and we hope this will be a success in the future that will help us build an offensive industrial team that will find new solutions for the future, both to create more jobs and to take on board the climate challenge we are facing, and that can help us get ahead in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e259	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for a good proposal. I would also like to thank the industry for the initiative they have taken, and also for the positive approach that the Minister of Industry has shown. It's when we work together that we can get to the important thing. It must be very important in industry. Industry 4.0 is what's coming now. We know that it can be described as a revolution. Developments are characterised by increased use of robots, sensors, 3D printing, advanced materials and large quantities of data and interconnected software. In that case, Norwegian industry needs more cooperation venues, we need more expertise sharing, and we need more testing and demonstration facilities to ensure the transition that will come now, also in the light of digitisation. We have some clusters that are good. From a majority of the Committee, we stress that such a top industrial centre must complement and not replace these clusters. It's precisely in the interaction we believe that both clusters and a top industrial center are the best possible. The undersigned and the representative of the Left Party shall have, inter alia: in the setting, three clusters which are part of the Clusters program as a conversion engine created by this government. It's Kongsberg, Raufoss and Halden, who have their own top skills, which it's important to bring and play to a top industrial center, but at the same time they have to stand as separate units with their own top skills that can make other clusters and this top industrial center better. I am delighted to see and follow developments further. At the hearing on the budget, it was said that in the summer of 2017, they wanted to be up and running by the top industry centre. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we intend to follow this process closely, perhaps also with appropriations that need to be made when we come to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e272	I want to start by thanking your suggestions. Then I would also like to thank the representative Grimstad, who made contributions to the first two issues so that we could find time. That's good. The issue of the top industrial centre is in every way a matter of happiness. It is one of many necessary measures for a new industrial policy. The starting point is the best, because there is broad political consensus about the action, it has the support of the LO and the NHO, it is mentioned in the State budget, and there is a willingness to do so. I just want to make a comment on one of the comments that the Right and the Advance Party have, because they are very concerned that under the red-green government there was little development for the industry other than the petroleum-related. I think that's a little short term. I mean, just as today's opposition does not give today's government the debt for the fall in the oil price, at least in parts of the country it was very natural that the industry was directed towards petroleum-related activity when the oil price was above $100 the barrel. The companies were in a situation where they could choose whether they would use their resources to do something that they thought was very much on, or whether they would take down some of the activity to bet on in other areas, which they thought was a little less on. Let me remind you that the oil price drop was nobody who predicted. Everyone knew that it would come once in time, but no one knew how long there was. I thought that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which neither when the oil price was over $100, were very eager that now one had to take down the activity within oil and gas, could have been a little bit clearer in its story. But the top industrial center is coming. That's very good. I hope that we will also have a good political debate in the future on the arrangements for this, but not least on other instruments that are coming, and which have a clear expectation that the Minister of Industry will deliver on when the Industrial Communication finally arrives in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e283	The President will draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that there are some grievances in the technology here. That means it's the president who takes the time, and there's no light, it's just going to be knocked, so it's about to be brief.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e288	The future will require us to industrialise the green shift. It is then important to develop the best skills and process them so that they are really available to all industrial and industrial environments in Norway. In this picture, the establishment of a top industrial centre is particularly interesting. So thank both the proposers and the initiators and the Minister of Industry for handling this so far. As part of the majority of the Committee, I would like to stress that a top industrial centre must complement, not replace the existing clusters. For me and the Left, it is important that the pre-project launched to look at what a top industrial centre can become does its work on what it should or should contain before concluding on whether and how to establish a top industrial centre. I expect the proposal and the discussion about a top industrial centre to be included in the work of the industrial communication that the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e297	I thought I would just refer to an interesting and illustrative figure that is relevant to this discussion: Norway has fewer robots per added in industry than countries like Sweden and Denmark, and far fewer than South Korea, Japan and Germany. So we're going to be below the average robotic density per world-wide industrialization. It might sound a little strange to draw robot density into a thing like this -- what does it have to do with it? But I think it's a pretty interesting key figure to understand the situation of the Norwegian industry. The new industrial regime of robotization, automation and increased digitisation is one of the strong trends internationally, and there is reason to believe that Norway, based on figures like this, is far too far behind. When you look at other countries and how they have met this, it is precisely this type of centre, often more centres, but it is often countries that are much larger than Norway. In the United States, one of the most advanced industrial production centres in each country established its cost at federal money. In the United Kingdom, they have created similar systems with this type of centre to bet on industry and will be a meeting place between research, technology and industry. So it's obvious that this is a way to go. I also think it is obvious to most that the Kongsberg Group may be the environment in Norway that is at the forefront of this work. That's also why we've pointed them out, and we have to get started quickly. We're in a hurry. Then I have to say that of course I also understand that the Council of State will see this in a larger context in the industrial message. After all, the industry message has been waiting, and that at a time when we really need a superior strategy for how to help Norwegian industry in the next phase. So we're four years behind the other industrialized countries around Norway. They already have large national strategies that they are doing well and have come a long way, while Norway is lagging behind. It is believed that the industrial message coming from the Council of State is exciting, but I don't know anything about its contents. I just hear rumors from the industry. So we in SV look forward to the message -- it's high time. I also hope that it has exciting and ambitious suggestions that Norway really needs. We're actually at a time when we can start thinking about reindustrializing Norway, reindustrializing Norway, based on the new technologies. Norway has a lot of power, a lot of expertise – everything is right for this to be a new spring for Norwegian industry. With this, I hope at least that the tempo plan for the industry message is kept up, and then I really hope that the industry message is as ambitious as it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e314	We are experiencing major changes in the Norwegian economy and business. The decline in the oil and gas sector has had ring-effects in several industries and in several parts of the country. At the same time, there is enormous global technology development, and we have serious climate and environmental challenges, which mean that the green shift must be given priority both in industry and in society. We have a long and proud industrial history in Norway, with jobs throughout the country. We also have to ensure that in the future. Norwegian industry has changed a lot over the years, and transformation through the use of technology and innovation has always been a driving force. Today, we see that knowledge, technology and global markets are changing at a very fast pace. Processes are changing and digitising, production is becoming more efficient, more precise and more automated, new value chains and business models are emerging. Industry around the world is affected by these changes. Development opens up opportunities and strengthens competition for Norwegian enterprises. The shifts in technology can give competitive advantages by reducing labour costs and applying knowledge, technology and competences in a new way. Norway has high-tech industrial environments and skilled labour. We have close dialogue between managers and professionals in the industry. In order to succeed, businesses need to see what opportunities lie in development and the ability to cooperate across industries and industries. Many have to make a technological transition to strengthen competitiveness, and this can be challenging especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. For small players, it may be difficult to acquire knowledge, put into practice and develop new technologies. Automated production in specialised industries requires special adaptations and investment in research and development. The need for increased digitisation is a central element of this. I am pleased that industry has taken initiatives to cooperate on how to meet this challenge. The proposal for the establishment of a top industrial centre has been met with great interest in business and academic environments. A large number of enterprises and R & D institutions have also committed themselves. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries participates in the financing of the project together with the establishment companies. We have had several meetings with the initiators, and we have received input into the forthcoming industrial notification of the start-up companies. We largely share the challenge picture outlined, and the challenges and opportunities of technological development will, of course, be highlighted and discussed in the Industry Communication. I am very positive about the idea of sharing knowledge and establishing collaboration venues. The action may contribute to faster and better links between different competences, projects and sectors in different parts of the country. It has also been this government that has strengthened cluster policy through clustering and upgrading clusters to an even higher level during this period. In the 2017 state budget, we have also proposed the creation of a ‘catapult regime’. It shall contribute to the sharing of information and knowledge through the use and testing of enterprises and R & D actors and the demonstration of new technologies and solutions. I look forward to completing the work in the preliminary project and the prospectus to be presented in the new year. It is important that the High Industry Centre finds its role and tasks in cooperation with other actors. It must be stressed that the Centre has a well-thought-out organisation and a good business model. With regard to the question of further State involvement in the project, we have to wait until we have sufficient basis to assess the role of the state when the project is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e333	It's going to be line change. Else-May Bottom [[A]] State Council Monica Mæland [10:41:00]: As I have explained, I believe that this can be a very positive project. I'm probably a little surprised by the time the representatives promoted this proposal, because at that time no one actually knew the contents of the top industrial centre. I've been very busy getting a review of what this is, for who, how and where. It was like this on the summer that depending on who you asked, you got quite different answers. That is why it has been important for me to be in close dialogue with the initiators and to get this project going, precisely in order to be able to materialise. Then we take a position on this when we see the contents of the center. There must be something that the industry needs, not least the small and medium-sized enterprises. But the state is involved, it's also the largest companies that own the state, and then the foreproject will determine how the state should contribute. But we're fully capable of making decisions if we think that's right. Else-May Bottom [[A]] State Council Monica Mæland [10:42:41]: Although it is tempting in an election year to conduct symbol politics, I am concerned not to do so. I'm actually concerned that we stock and take action that works, and that takes place in the situation we're in. I see it as very offensive that we take the initiative to meet the start-up companies, that we take the initiative to launch a pre-project, that we ask for a request for financial support, which is actually dealt with in less than 24 hours. So to the extent that you need signals from the state, you've got it to the greatest extent. We have also had meetings during the autumn with projects to follow developments. So I'm positive in every way, but I'm concerned that the result is good, and then it's completely possible to engage when and at the time it's relevant to the state. Else-May Bottom [[A]] State Council Monica Mæland [10:44:07]: We have money for top industrial centers. At this point, what they are asking for is project support. That's where we contribute. We have not received an application, no application, because the project is not completed, and unlike the representative, I do not know what the content should be – it is possible that the representative has information other than me. But this is what it's doing. So those who establish this are not ready to make an application for the content. In the case of catapults, we've got a very clear idea of what this is. These are test centres, these are in many ways the industry's halls, which can be established in different parts of the country, within different industries, to be developed in cooperation with industry, and this is one of the inputs – perhaps the most important – we have received in our meeting with the industry in the field of industry communication. Geir Pollestad [[Sp]] We have received messages from this government before. Now we're waiting for the industry message, and we're expecting this top industrial center to be reported there. But I have a general question attached to the industry message and the device on it, because when we got the forest message from the government, it was a very good description of reality, but just for political action and political instruments. Then my question is related to the industrial message: Will it be descriptive? I suppose so, but will it also target measures in an active industrial policy? State Council Monica Mæland [10:46:02]: I’m not going to go into the content of the Industry Communication – it’s coming that announced just over New Year’s. But what I can say is that the way we've worked is to travel around and meet representatives of the industry, for industry, for organisations and for R & D environments. We've been given input, concrete input, which we're now taking our position on. So yes, we have to be both descriptive and concrete. So Katapult is a very concrete action played by the industry. In general, I am very pleased that what the industry is reporting back is: doing more of what the government is doing about industrial policy. That's the big feedback we get when we travel around. Torgeir Knag County [[SV]] State Council Monica Mæland [10:47:23]: I think I acknowledge, like the representative Pollestad, that over the years we have had quite a different business life from that of many other countries. We have chosen some industries that we are very, very good at, but that are also very dominant, where we have a lot of high technology, and we have a lot of competence. Oil and gas industries are such industries, which have become very dominant, and where we are very good and almost incomparable with other countries. That means the rest of the industry has a piece to go. So let's look at the comparison. But we have to admit that our industry is different from many other countries. We have a lot of niche production, and it happens very positively. I'm a lot around small and medium-sized enterprises in many different industries. They're about to implement new technologies. Digitalization, robotization and automation are for us a great opportunity to keep industry, but perhaps also to relocate industry, after many years of doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e367	Knag Fylkesnes can get another line if he wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e372	Thank you very much, President -- I started to cheat on my own mathematics here. It's the technology here that makes us just have to remember. With the description of the Council of State here, as I share it: will the Council of State agree that, once we get the industry message – as late as now, while all other industrialised countries are engaged in national strategies several years ago – we are a little behind in the national strategies in this important industrial field?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e379	Afternoon clocks are always a special sport. It's been very, very good in Norway, and it's clear that our need to start this kind of strategy work has been different from that of very many other countries, like Germany, like the United Kingdom, which we've been and visited, just to learn some of the way they work. At least it is high time that the conversion work was given up. Everyone in Norwegian business understands this, although conversion is an eternal part of industrial activity. But yes, at least we're not out too soon, to say it that way. It's high time we got a modern industrial policy, given the evolution that's coming, and it's coming terribly fast, and everyone, absolutely all in all industries, has to take it in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e384	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e391	First I get to say that I get to thank the Committee for a good deal of consideration of the matter, and I forgot that at first. When it comes to the intervention of the representative Botten, that you want to see what kind of industrial policy we want to pursue, it's just like the Council of State said: we want to do more of what we've done. There has been a policy since 2013: focusing on competitiveness, i.e. investing in transport, R & D, knowledge, growth-promoting tax incentives – and not least clusters – and there has been a lot of practice. The signal I get when I'm out in Business Norway is: do more of what you've already done. That's what you need to focus most on. Something else I don't think any of us would expect either. It's obviously important that we start sharing knowledge. It's about the whole country. We need to get tools that spread knowledge all over the country. You can pour some cold water in your blood, because no one knows what the top industrial center is going to contain yet. It's a project sketch. When you say you're ready to give money and look forward to something that's going to work all over the country, we say, well, that's of course what we have to wait for and see. But I've seen some plans for the top industrial center that reminds me more of approaching a state-owned consulting company, with quite large appropriations. Then I think you get a slightly different perspective on it. Now let's wait and see what actually comes out of the planning, and we'll take a position on that. As I said, the government has notified new measures through catapult centres. It may be possible that the top industrial centre can be adapted to that effort. But there are too many loose threads that we can go beyond what we have done today. We're all waiting in suspense for what's actually coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e402	I'm drawing myself because of Gundersen's posts. I just want to stop at the announcement that we're going to do more of what we've done. Of course, we're going to do more of what we've done, but the new technology requires us to do things qualitatively different. What we see from other countries is that one from the public side goes quite interventional to work, because one sees that this does not solve itself. If we take the United States, which in many ways is politically acceptable, far to the right of the Norwegian political axis ideologically and in the way that a society is thinking about, one who is offensively working with federal means, state resources to say that, and completes these centers, because one sees that this bet, the new idea, will not happen by itself. The Minister of Fisheries is here too. This is an industrial field which is also most relevant in the fisheries sector. We know, as a matter of fact, that the big and new technological shifts are not happening by themselves, nor in the fisheries sector. Here, there must be national instincts to make things happen. That's exactly what characterizes the responses of the different industrial nations to the new technology, that one has an interventionist line in this area. So I'm going to say, first of all, we can't just keep doing what we've done before, we have to do something completely new. Second, the state actually has to play a very central role here, whether it likes it or not. It has countries that have governments far to the right, recognised. Therefore, I will be very disappointed if one of the industry messages gives good descriptions, while when it comes to the action page, the role of the state is to get to it shifted away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e411	The South is a beautiful part of Norway, and it is easy to be seduced if you get a week in Arendal. The plans for the top industrial centre are very good. Everyone agrees. But it is that when we got it presented in August last year, it was almost without content. We're in a conversion time. A lot of people have been aware of this for a long time. We're going to use the right tools. I find it strange that this room is under attack to use the established model – pre-study, pre-project and then project – when it comes to how we are going to use public funds. The initiative taken by the industrial communities has been welcomed. One is open to sharing knowledge is a good tool. They have said that you should divide, sit together, think well and then give a sketch of food in – and we will see if it is possible to give more money. Two to three days ago, we were attacked in this room because we spend too much money. Then it has to be possible to agree that the money we spend, we have to spend the right amount. I think there is a great deal of agreement on how the public should play a good part in the industry during a transition period. I also believe there is a great deal of consensus that in terms of the good models of how we use the funds – pre-study, pre-project and then project – we are on a safe basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President has understood that parts of the Trade Committee were prevented from meeting during the examination of case No. 3 due to a fire alarm. We therefore go back to the handling of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e438	We ended up in a somewhat unfortunate situation with the technical need to test the fire alarm system, a committee that was at the blush and the debate that went on in the hall without us being clear about it. The panic spread in the committee when we realized the loss that had happened. There was a lot of running in the walkers. While this happened, there was only one or two in the committee sitting in the hall. The case spokesperson was one of the people who was out. The proposal from the Workers' Party to transfer the management of the investment funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe to the Kirkenes has been discussed by the Committee and we have come to the conclusion of a consensus. The Committee fully agrees with the proposers to increase industrial cooperation and industrial development between Norway and North-West Russia is good and a national target. But as it is now, the relationship between Norway and Russia has made this into a slightly different situation than before. There have also been challenges related to the capital management of these funds. Investment funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe have been evaluated by Menon. Menon has found that it is not – or hardly enough – socially viable to continue managing the fund in today’s situation. Therefore, the Board of Innovation Norway has also recommended that the fund be decommissioned or transferred to a new operator. The Committee agrees that the funds should be passed on, that they should be merged and put on a single basis, and that they should be given a new mandate, adapted to the current situation. The Committee also sees the challenge of capital management. The Committee would like to link capital management to a competent environment in North Norway, with an anchor party in Kirkenes/Sør-Varanger. With that, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and constructive work. We're going to make a deal in this case. We're probably all a few people about making these funds work as intended. The challenge is to find a good environment to manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e451	As one of the rapporteurs, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Committee's position, and I would like to thank both the Committee and the rapporteur for their cooperation. The background to this proposal has two sides. The municipality of South Varanger is severely affected by the closure of Southvaranger Gruve and has applied for conversion funds in this context, and this application is dealt with separately by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. At the same time, we believe that it is important to look at other instruments that can help stimulate new activity. The investment fund for North-West Russia and the Eastern European Investment Fund were evaluated by Menon last year, and it appears that the funds have not functioned properly. Today, therefore, the Stortinget government is asking the two funds to merge and create a new mandate for the merged fund, adapted to the current situation. In addition, the Committee proposes to add the merged fund, as mentioned above, to an environment of competence in North Norway with anchorages in the Church. I believe that today's decision to raise the content of the Northern Region bet in general, and in addition, it contributes positively to the conversion of the municipality of Sør-Varanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e460	I just want to add some knowledge to the matter. The municipality of Sør-Varanger has applied for conversion funds, and received it, a conversion programme of 40 million. NOK, so that part of the reason is probably not standing. The municipality of Sør-Varanger has also, even though they are in a difficult situation measured against other municipalities, actually received a conversion package that is larger than what you qualify for under the laws and regulations, so here the government has been both on and off with the instruments. In the case of funds, it is actually – if you look at history – a good picture of how to use public funds. This is a fund that has almost not been in use for a very long time. When we contact the investor communities in Norway, it is said that investing in Russia is very difficult. We have good examples that being a businessman in Russia is extremely difficult. We have examples of traders who have been arrested, put in question and expelled without it being possible to find any demonstrable reason. This is a complicated terrain, it is an unfinished map, and therefore we have proposed that the two funds should be set aside, so we have proposed that we look at the mandate, expand it, and target it more towards investment in the Barents region and the North Calote rather than primarily in Russia. That is why, unlike the proposers, we have also said that we must have a tendering procedure, and the administration must be added to a competent environment in North Norway. We know that there are many good people in South Varanger municipalities and a lot of good environments, but we're not quite sure that the best management environments for this type of fund are found in South Varanger. That's why we've told you to look in North Norway, and then you get to measure it against the other environments. The worst thing we can do now is, as a purely symbolic policy, we just put the money in South Varanger and say that now we have given you the opportunity to take things forward. We must be sure that we have a competent environment, and therefore, fortunately, a unanimous committee agrees that we should follow the usual rules to manage this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e469	I very much agree with the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen. I would first of all like to thank the Committee and thank the proposers. I am very pleased that the matter that we have for debate here today will go through in Stortinget, but I also want to remind the Stortinget that I personally promoted identical proposals in the same matter both in 2007 and 2008. It is good that we have a government today that is much more pragmatic and solution-oriented than the previous government, which voted both proposals down. My main objective is to thank the Committee for its work and for its final review. There is no doubt that both we as a nation and North Norway need increased industrial cooperation between Norway and Russia. It goes without saying that as a national bridgehead to Russia, South Varanger should be a central player in this way. Once again to the Committee: thank you for your good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e474	I will not prolong the debate by going into the long assessments of the representatives of Fredriksen's assessments of the various governments that have been in the past, except to state that often party membership has a certain impact on how a government assesses its efforts. So I just want to make a short comment about the decision and the location. The Decision states ‘competent environment in North Norway’, but the Committee also stresses in the proposal for a decision that it should be ‘with anchorages in South Varanger’. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry to note that in the comments the Committee states that it should be «with a view to localisation in the Churches».
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e481	We have an evaluation that tells us that these funds, as they are set up today, do not give the results that we want. That is why it is good that a single committee, and now a single one, will merge these two investment funds and get something new with a new mandate. It is important, because it is an important region, it is an important part of our country, and nutrition cooperation is also important for Russia, but with very different strict approaches than is customary in many other countries. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline what the committee chairman now said about this investment fund being in «a competent environment in North Norway, with anchorages in South Varanger», and also the committee comment that clarifies where it may be, that it may be in the Church's. We're looking forward to a new mandate, we're getting one fund, we're putting this into practice, and we're starting to get results from something that's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e490	Moving the management of the fund or funds to Kirkenes, as mentioned, has been proposed twice in 2005 and 2008. Both times, the proposal was voted down. Now, a unanimous Liaison Committee is behind the proposal for a representative. A Joint Committee has also encouraged the pooling of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia and the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe, the creation of a new mandate for the merged fund, and the addition of the management of the Fund to a competent environment in North Norway with anchorages in South Varanger. The investment fund for North-West Russia was established with a budget of 150 million. 1996 kr. The fund covers Murmansk, Arkhangelsk, Nenets and Karelia in Russia. The fund is commercial and may be used to make equity grants or to provide subordinated loans of up to 30 million. to Norwegian establishments in the coverage area. The fund may participate with 35 pst. of the investment and must have Norwegian co-investor. During its lifetime, the Investment Fund for North-West Russia has invested in only 15 projects, which are linked to high risk in Russia. Eight have been associated with South Varanger. The investment fund has a loss of approx. Thirty million. NOK 10 of projects sold. Two projects have been sold with a win. The fund's balance is about 182 million. kr. There are three remaining projects in the portfolio. The political and economic situation in Russia has, of course, reduced Norwegian companies’ investment ambitions in North-West Russia. The Eastern European Investment Fund was established in 1997 with a total allocation of 120 million. kr. The purpose of the establishment was to provide state investment capital to Norwegian companies that wanted to establish themselves in markets in Eastern Europe that were not covered by the Investment Fund for North-West Russia. The fund is commercial and has substantially the same guidelines as the Investment Fund for North-West Russia, except that the maximum amount per investment is 15 million. kr. The fund has invested in 25 companies, there are nine companies left in the portfolio, and the fund capital in the account is currently approximately approx. Seventy-two million. kr. The Fund cannot invest in countries that have become members of the EU since its inception. On behalf of Innovation Norway, the consulting company Menon evaluated the investment funds in 2015. Menon found that the Investment Fund for North-West Russia is not socio-economically viable, while the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe is on the verge of being so. Innovation Norway sees the investment activity as a major risk to the company and, in a letter to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, has requested that the management of the investment funds be added to an entity outside the company, where appropriate, that the funds be wound up. I note that the Economic and Social Committee calls for the funds to be merged and for a new mandate to be created. It is in line with the input I have received, and I agree that it is necessary to review the mandate for the arrangements, so that they can be better adapted to the current situation. I also note that the Committee asks that the management of the new fund be added to a competent environment in North Norway, with anchorages in South Varanger. Of course we have to assess that. It is essential that the funds are managed by skilled professionals with knowledge of Russia and the countries of Eastern Europe and who have experience in managing government funds in risky investments. In conclusion, I can mention that the Investment Fund for North-West Russia, or a merged fund, will continue to be an offer to Norwegian companies that want to establish themselves within the scope of the funds, i.e. in Russia and non-EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then Stortinget will deal with case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e527	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e536	There is today broad political agreement that fisheries and seafood should have a greater place in future economic development in Norway, and active recruitment to the industry is needed. Under the Youth Fishing Scheme, young people over 12 years of age can try out in the industry as a summer job. The scheme is limited by the requirements for which hijackers are to be used. The proposers believe that the Youth Fisheries Scheme should be extended, so that this simple and straightforward action to give young people a chance to try their way into the industry will apply throughout the year. There is a shared view of the security in this respect when it applies to young people down to the age of 12 to 13 years, who can meet demanding weather conditions and dealing with dangerous equipment in cold, almost arctic conditions in the winter months. However, a joint committee agrees that the youth fishing system and beyond school quotas and the apprenticeship quota system are important measures for the necessary recruitment. If Norway, as a leading fishing nation, is still in the lead, it is important that the recruitment at sea is good. Today, many point out that there may be cause for concern about a trend in the recruitment of too little young people to the industry, and an increasing proportion of fishermen are close to retirement age. In the setting of the Maritime Industry Communication, a majority of the government asked for a strategy to strengthen recruitment for the fisheries industry and that a youth fisheries scheme should also be phased out. In our configuration today, the Committee is concerned that it is important to highlight the following problem options as a basis for furthering the issue of youth fisheries throughout the year: the consideration of raw material treatment, quality, security aspects – which I had in mind by extending the scheme to the whole year – capacity capacities of reception facilities and impacts on quota withdrawals. It also points out that any change in the scheme must specify the age groups to which it applies and the other criteria to be applied for participation. In the vote, the majority of the committee, members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party make the following suggestions: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the fisheries recruitment strategy, to investigate the juvenile fisheries system and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ It gives a room for action, and after a closer discussion, the government parties also go into this proposal. A joint committee believes that it is important to ensure that this system is properly applied, and refers to the letter of 13 October from the Minister for Fisheries. The Committee supports that the scheme should not present challenges for our supervisory authorities, and that the scheme should not pose major control challenges, especially during the hectic period of the year in which winter fishing is conducted, with particularly large catches. It is very important that fishing is carried out in a sustainable way, and that the resource extraction is not irresponsibly high. At the end of the day, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and recommendation to this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e560	Proposals focus on a very important area, i.e. how we can achieve a successful future recruitment in the fishing industry. The case-speaker has settled the point of view of the committee in a very good and tidy way, and I just want to point out some of the reasons why we don't go into these proposals. It has to do with the fact that the proposals are without consistency, and the Minister’s letter of reply also points to some challenges by adopting a proposal to extend the juvenile fisheries scheme to cover the whole year. It's crucial to get all of these pages lit, before one goes on with such a suggestion. For the Labour Party, it is always important that we know the consequences, before we go into a proposal, even if we support the intention of what is being presented, that it is important to improve recruitment and dispel interest as early as the juvenile fishing system actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e567	Measured against the recruitment tools we had not very many years ago, this would have been a pretty good proposal, but it's like we've introduced something called apprentice quota in three years' time. In other words, young people who have taken an education in a specialised school and need to get on board a boat to learn the profession get a quota of their own. This is a very good apprentice grant to the fleet, and it has been very successful. We have doubled the quota for the vocational schools – the vocational schools that train young people to recruit them for the fishing profession. They have doubled their quota so that they now have raw material to go out with the boats and fish. This makes that education much better, and we have a summer fishing system that allows young people who want to sniff in this profession to make an agreement with a registered fishing boat and go out. This means that we now see that we get young people to the profession, and we get young people to the profession through a very well-qualified training course. Therefore, measured against extra bureaucracy and extra costs by having a control body up and running through all the holidays – Christmas holidays, Easter holidays – as the established fishermen would like vacations, I believe that the effect will be very small. We recruit well to the profession now, and the youth has good tools to become a good professional in what is one of Norway's most important industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e576	Fishing is one of our most important industries and an important part of the business life of the future in Norway. It's good times in the fisheries. Demand for Norwegian seafood is increasing, and earlier this fall, the number showed that in 2016 we again struck all the records. Norwegian vessels fished and shellfish at a value of 16.9 billion. NOK, which is an increase of SEK 2.7 billion. from the previous year. It shows that there are great opportunities and potentials in this industry. So it's also that we have some challenges, and one of the challenges is just that of recruiting. Recruitment goes down. Young people can experience it as difficult to enter the profession, fewer meetings with the industry than before, and if we are to ensure adequate maritime nutrition skills in the future, we need to facilitate young people to find the fisheries sector exciting — yes, it is attractive. Then the Christian People's Party believes that schemes such as the Youth Fishing Scheme can be important precisely to facilitate meetings between youth and nutrition and give them a taste of what life fishing is like. We therefore support the intention of the proposers to increase recruitment and believe that revitalisation of the juvenile fisheries system can be an important step forward. But there are also some issues we need to look at before we take this decision. That is why it is also an overall committee that points to this in the vote. It is important that we ensure that the system is accurate and correctly implemented. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, Left and SV, is involved in asking the government to investigate the juvenile fishing system and come back in an appropriate way. I think it is commendable that the representative Oskar J. Grimstad also says that they will now support this proposal in the Chamber. It shows that it is possible to create a good, broad majority for an important industry, for an important spearhead into this industry, which is young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e589	The Youth Fisheries Scheme has helped young people to gain insight into and understand what fishing is all about. I'm saying a little bit on the way. Extending this scheme to those parts of the year when it's not as sparse as in summer will give an even better insight into what it means to be a fisherman. But there are also some new challenges if this scheme is to be extended. What about the safety aspect of extending the scheme to those parts of the year that have a more severe weather? What about the quality treatment of the fish? Fishing is a subject to be learned, and quality and handling of fishing gear are increasingly demanding. What about the control challenges and capacity of fishing receptions in the seasonal fisheries and the impact on quota withdrawals? What about the delimitation of age groups and other criteria applicable to participation? This must be looked at in more detail, as the Committee wishes. I have a long seagoing service in the fishing industry, and I am really interested in recruiting for the fishing industry. Norway is constantly in need of educational and interested young people to choose fishing as a professional route. If we take good care of our fish stocks, as we do today, this is an industry with an eternity perspective, an industry that will also contribute solidly to the Norwegian economy and well-being in the future. I think there is a reason to pay tribute to SV who put this issue on the agenda, and I am sure that we will find solutions for extended youth fishing. I just want to end by saying that it is commendable that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now joining thefelles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e600	I would first like to thank the Committee for its constructive work on our proposal for a representative. For SV, it is acceptable that we see this in conjunction with the strategy for recruitment to fisheries, which we have to deal with again when he returns to Stortinget in his own way. We had a debate last night where we talked about all of us sharing the ambition that Norway should be the world's leading maritime nation. If we're going to make it, there's got to be people out on the ocean who have experience with the sea and can accept the fish and the values of the sea. In this work, the possibility for young people to start early and get out early at sea is a backbone. We see how people have started in the small in coastal fishing and moved within other industries within the maritime, within the offshore, etc. Without the recruitment base that comes from the coast's people and that takes place at the youth level around, Norway would not have been in the vicinity of having the role we actually have internationally with everything that's uncircumcision and off the coast. This work is extremely important. So the evolution is like, as one very well described it, that if you walk around on the berths, you see that the people there have more hair in their ears than on their heads. There's an exaggeration going on. In 1990, the number was 40. by fishermen under 40 years of age. Today is 30 pst. below 40 years of age. It's maybe half a year in increments every year, almost such that you get an increase in years. So there's a very alarming situation, and this isn't just alarming for the fishing ground, it's alarming for Norway's ambitions in the sea in general. So we have to do something. In this context, we then pointed to youth fishing as the first threshold for coming in. So the first entrance ticket to get started and get the taste of working at sea. Research shows that it is crucial that you later celebrate your life for this work. When you get up in the 20s, the recruitment is very little. It's in youth, at the lower end of the 20s, that recruitment takes place. But it is clear that there are many other aspects to the recruitment of fisheries, and there is also a lot of concern. Other dimensions that also have an impact on the overall recruitment of fisheries and the sea area in general are vocational training, the apprenticeship quota allocated to them, and the recruitment quota system, which also has small roles in this. In general, what we see around the municipalities in favor of establishing themselves as fishes, would be great success in many places. So there's the big elephant in the room in this case: the threshold to be able to become fishes has become higher. It is simply more expensive to get into the fish for young people who want to become independent fishermen. So all of this leads us negatively to meet the challenge of the anticipation we see in the fisheries. That is why it is extremely important that we are offensive in this area. I think no matter what the different parties think about how the structure of Norwegian fishing will be in the future – whether there are only a few trawlers that will take up all the fish, or whether it is a varied fishing fleet – we are all dependent on having a strong recruitment of young people to the sea. That's why I think it's so important that we see this on the wallpaper. This is, to a large extent, a postponement of dealing with this matter really. But that means that maybe we can get an even bigger and more extensive treatment of this case. When the Council of State comes up with this strategy to the Storting, I really see that he's quite ambitious. If he's not ambitious, it draws the carpet under our common visions that Norway is going to be a world-leaving seamat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e617	We have to be ambitious. It's almost as if it was rigged by the representative Knag Fylkesnes, because now there was a lot of great youth in the gallery, and then it's okay to deal with a matter that's about recruiting young people into fisheries and aquaculture – it's a good debate in that way. The aim of the Youth Fisheries Scheme is to contribute to the recruitment of the fishing industry – a different fishing industry today, which will be different tomorrow but important. There's no new system. It is a system that has been well received along the coast ever since its introduction in the 1990s. I mean, like everyone else, that it's still important to facilitate that youth along the coast and also youth from the inland and from the big cities can get to try out the fishing profession. In addition to the juvenile fisheries system, we have strengthened the school quota system in recent years. We have introduced an apprenticeship quota and made it possible for student farms in the fisheries sector. There are, in principle, small differences between the juvenile fisheries system and access to recreational fishing. Both arrangements allow for the transfer of catches and the fishing activities themselves are initially subject to the same restrictions as regards the choice of gear that can be used. The purpose of introducing a specific juvenile fisheries scheme was to a large extent to draw attention to what opportunities are actually available and what opportunities are available in open-ended fisheries for young people seeking a summer job. Despite many similarities, youth fishing has not been subject to the same quantitative limits as recreational fishing. Weak populations of coastal cod have been arguments for including a quantitative restriction in the juvenile fisheries system. Until now, however, it has been assessed that the tool limitations contained in the scheme are considered sufficient in this way. However, unlike the recreational fisherman, the person participating in the juvenile fishing scheme has been given the opportunity to use a registered fishing vessel if that vessel is not in regular operation during the period used for juvenile fishing. This highlights that the juvenile fisheries system is slightly more than the general recreational fisheries system. Young people can rarely stand by their own vessels, and I believe that such an exception to the use of ordinary fishing vessels is a good and necessary offer for the youth. As everyone knows, there are large instances of fish near the coast in the winter and the commercial fleet lands large quantities in a very high number of landings. The high turnover in the winter half also poses challenges for supervisory authorities. Their task is to ensure that we get a proper overview of the resource extraction from the sea, which I think we all agree on, and therefore contributes to the sustainable management of the populations, so that those who come after us also have resources to harvest. If a registered fishing vessel can be used in the juvenile fisheries system when it is high season in fisheries, after catching the quota of the vessel in professional fishing, it presents new control challenges. I do not want us to impose an additional burden on the control authorities when the purpose of contributing to the recruitment of young people into the fishing industry is, in total, well cared for by existing schemes. Although it may seem tempting for young people to get involved in winter fishing, I see that the proposal by the representatives of Knag Fylkesnes and Valen will pose unnecessary control challenges, especially in the hectic period of the year in which winter fishing takes place. It will not be possible to implement such a proposal without having a significantly greater bureaucracy from a fisheries legislation that is already very complicated at the outset. The solution we now have with youth fishing schemes during most of the summer holidays, and with student farming schemes, school and apprentice quotas as a whole are very well suited to encouraging recruitment to Norwegian fishing. Then, as supervisory authorities, we also maintained our obligations to carry out the fishing in a responsible and good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e646	It's hard for me to see what the government's going to do as really monar to make sure that young people get into fishing early, when you're so obnoxious as to look at the juvenile fishing system that Sandberg was in her article. The gigantic price developments we have seen before fishing in recent years cause young people to have serious problems getting into fishing. Then it is extremely important that one, at least from the perspective of the government party, has other arrangements that allow young people to enter. But when one then rejects this, as the councillor did in his post, I wonder how Sandberg will make sure to get to this recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e651	I don't know if I was rejecting. The representative Knag County refers to other schemes. I was so into it, but I'd like to take all the arrangements. We have a system of juvenile fishing. Youth fishing scheme allows young people between 12 and 15 years of age to fish during the summer holidays. We have educational quotas through student enterprise schemes – it is a pedagogical programme where primary school students learn what it means to start fishing, etc. We have educational quotas through school quotas, which are allocated to secondary schools teaching in the natural sciences and fishing and fishing. We have educational quotas through apprentice quotas. The apprenticeship quotas are intended for the last two years, where the apprentices are in practice on board a ship. We also have recruitment quotas. We have a number of arrangements that I think we can strengthen and use to a much greater extent – and we do. I now have an assessment, among other things: this with recruitment quotas and the criteria for obtaining recruitment allowances. We can probably do more within the systems already in place, instead of expanding the juvenile fisheries system, which will create complications both in terms of security and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e658	The point is that the upswing of the juvenile fisheries system has fallen in recent years. Organisations, as well as young people themselves, believe that extending the scheme could lead to greater upswing around it. The juvenile fishing system has basically a problem; a hard time getting people to use it properly. One should look at that scheme, expand it in various ways — be appropriate. Yes, there are some major challenges here, too, but I think that if the goal is to make sure that young people get into fishing faster, so that they get the taste of the sea early, the juvenile fishing system or similar schemes are aimed at young people in that phase, extremely important. When this goes down, the question is, what does the Council of State think about doing if one rejects the SV's proposal to extend the scheme to the whole year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e665	I fully agree with the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that we all have a responsibility to market the juvenile fisheries system. If there's lower recruitment now, we can all, I think, help drive marketing around the system that exists today, to get more people to join. There we all have a common challenge. If that is the concern of the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, I can also, as the Council of State, do much more to market this scheme. I also believe that the Economic and Social Committee will make a significant contribution to marketing it. If it's just recruiting more people into the juvenile fisheries system, I think we have something in common. But it doesn't have to mean that we're expanding, because it creates challenges on the other hand, and it can create negative reputation around the juvenile fisheries system if we extend it to the whole year, creating problems in large parts of the season in terms of security and control, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e670	Then I understand correctly that one should look at the arrangements to see if it is possible through information measures to increase its connectivity. We're only going to get hope for that. Then we'll get back to whether or not to expand the system itself. A closely related theme for ensuring that people get into the fish, get the taste and get interested in it is that they can also later get a life at sea as self-employed fishers. The council and I have had a discussion per question and answer about these things, and I would therefore like to ask the council if he is concerned about the price developments that we are now seeing, at least through the media. I know that the Council of State does not have access to that kind of information – I do not have that kind of statistics, even on price developments, on how much it costs to get into the fisheries – but is he concerned about the developments that are now taking place and that it has unfortunate consequences for the recruitment of young fishermen into the profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e679	Absolutely. These discussions have been held by the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I have had for almost one year. We have an anniversary with me as a fisheries minister now on December 16th – then I have been sitting here for one year. We've had a lot of fresh, good discussions, and this kind of debate is very important. So I don't know if it's right that I'm going to say that I'm concerned about price developments, because it's been like that for a long, long time, and having such price developments also means that it's going very well. This means that we are moving in the right direction both in terms of export numbers, recruitment and replacement of vessels – we are setting a new export record this year again, probably over 90 billion. kr. It is ripping well in North Norway. For young people to get into the business world, or get into the housing front, there are challenges. I don't believe in facilitating capital, or that someone in some professions should have other arrangements to get in, buy a boat, etc. I am in favour of young people also going step by step to get into business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e688	I was not aware that we had an anniversary soon, and I believe that the council and I actually met each other on December 16, so we get to bet on a Dakapo on New Year's Day 18 over maybe the same theme, but renew. When it comes to these developments, there is a development that directly affects recruitment, because it makes the threshold higher to come in. As the Council of State was about, this is a development that has happened over time, but has exploded in the last year. It's just asking the different brokerage houses, if the council wants it. It has exploded under the government council of Sandberg’s soon one-year anniversary – he has made sure of that. The Norwegian fisheries are doing well on the one hand, but less well with the young fishermen coming in – that is, the young people taking less part in that value creation. Will the Minister for Fisheries at least take the initiative in providing information on price developments so that the Council of State is informed of developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e695	Now I do not share the concerns of the representative Knag Fylkesnes in that field, because I have registered that the last six months have been very positive in fact. More and more young people bet, and bet big, to get into the fishing profession. Much of the reason why you can bet now is that the value of what you have has become the largest in the north of the country as it is in the south of the country. That's why it's much easier now to get funding to go into fishing with a lot of weight. I have received a number of positive feedbacks about young people who really are now betting. I think that when you get more and more young people who stand out in this way, it's in itself a recruitment arena to get more and more young people to bet on going into fishing. Then I register – politically perhaps the representative of Knag Fylkesnes and I alike – that we take on board when we come up with our arguments. But that it has exploded, or that it spills out by ship, or such things – I don't want to share that perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e702	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e709	We're not going to give up the impact of the debates we're holding in this room. I do not know whether that is parliamentary right, but sometimes you can get a feeling that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is born sad. In the way that he is able to talk down an industry like the fisheries in this room, one can almost wonder if he is interested in it being recruited to the industry, or if there is an industry he has lying on the night table just to meet his own selection needs. It is wrong that it is very expensive to get into the industry. There are very many young people entering the fishing industry today. They come into an open group, they buy a fishing boat, and they get to participate there. The structural quota system which the representative Knag Fylkesnes is constantly attacking came to the effect that the Community was not interested in using public funds to modernise the fleet. The structural quota system is simply a system that tells the industry that you want to modernise the fleet, you want to create modern jobs, you want to make it easier for young people to enter their industry, but you have to take the cost yourself. It is the structural quota system – and it has worked. So we have renewed a fishing fleet that is today effective and that is today in line with the resource base we have. One too big fleet is the biggest danger in the world, where you have too many fishermen, too many boats, to the resource base you have. So we recruit young people into a modern fleet that delivers qualitatively good fish to a growing market. It can almost not be a more beautiful arena to go into. And young people will be there. Then we have some arrangements that make us now have the same conditions to invest in a fishing vessel in Finnmark that is what you have in Northernland, while a year ago people had to move from Alta to the West to get a mortgage on their boat, because the boat was worth more if you lived in Northernland than it was if you lived in Finnmark. So we have arranged for young people to be able to invest in this industry, whether they live in Finnmark, Nordland, Troms or one of the other states. The rights are now purchased back to Finnmark. So we bought a trawler with rights from Mora. When the representative Knag Fylkesnes is skeptical about it, it must be his contempt for the trawler fleet, but then it is that in Finnmark we think it is very good that sometimes it comes a large boat to land and delivers catch, and we think it is very good that it is also owned by Finnmarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e718	It's an extremely important thing we're discussing here, and just because I represent a vision that is contrary to the view that Hill-Jensen stands for, it doesn't mean I'm talking down the fishing industry. When I say that spoken speech is ready – it is bad with the recruitment of fishing – it is not talking down the fishing. It's taking a problem seriously. When I'm concerned about the price evolution that it is when it comes to entering the fishing profession, and that it effectively prevents young people who don't have good banking connections from entering the fishing profession, it's not talking down the industry. It's a problem to point out, and not least to make the neighborhood open to young people who want to come in. Although Norwegian fishing industry is doing well, the question must always be: Who is paying attention to this positive development? When values increase, when it becomes more expensive to get into the fish business, those who get into this business have to borrow. The price increase we've seen is, to a large extent, something that's also being financed by loans. This means that the burden of debt in the fisheries sector is increasing. What happens then? Well, that means that more of the value creation from fishing goes to borrowing, goes to the financial sector, not to the value creation of coastal communities. There is also a bit of a background for some researchers to believe that the effectiveness of Norwegian fishing has fallen. It's because more and more of the revenue is going to be borrowing. It's not talking down the industry to point this at here. It is out of love for this industry that these problems are addressed, that the creation of value will benefit coastal communities, that it will benefit young people along the coast, that they will be able to participate in fishing. Noting that coastal communities are now being cut off, now young people are being cut off from fishing, now there's a lot of value creation going on here, but it's not going to be good for these environments here, it's not talking down. That's speaking for. It's speaking for the coast of Norway to say that the banks shouldn't be the ones left with the great value creation. There should not be the large financial environment that is going to focus on these developments here; it should benefit the coastal communities and the Norwegian population. It's not talking about the industry. When we're about what should be natural visions for this: SV has no contempt for the trawler, but we think that there should be division of labour here. There should be a point where the coastal fleet works, and a point where the trawler works. It must be unproblematic and clear, not as it is today, where one intervenes in the other and creates major conflicts – completely unnecessary conflicts – along the coast. We need to clarify that. We can't have it like we're going forward in this field right here to generate new conflicts. We'd better try to move forward and make reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e730	Governments have been involved in all the recruitment arrangements that exist today, and there are a number of possibilities for young people to get into a fishing activity today. But the most important factor is, in fact, that it is about profitability. Recruitment is best done at all times where you have good pay. We have seen that for a long time in the oil sector, where the level of wages has been high. Now we see that after a period of low prices in the whitefish industry, that price has come up, and that gives good pay. It also means that it's more attractive to get into it. That means that you get paid better for the products, but that also means that it's more expensive to get into this industry, so these factors follow each other. So one has to take care of the salary that gives the ability to pay interest and payments, maybe at the same level, but with a larger number of dollars. That is where I mean that the representative from SV bombs when he only points out that it has become too expensive to enter the industry. We also see that if the facilities on board the boats – we may be talking here about the trawlers in particular – are good, then you can recruit. We have just seen a new jet presented in More and Romesdal, a beautiful, great shot with all possible facilities on board, good jobs, safe jobs and good profitability. That's what recruits. I'm going to agree with Agent Bakke-Jensen that getting a trawler from More to Finnmark is good. There's a sign that there's pay, there's a sign that there's someone who's willing to bet. It's too few who dare to bet. When you're close to the resources and you can't bet, while you can bet – and bet tough too – where there's a larger sailing distance from the resources, there's got to be some kind of reason for that. It is only once that this with fishing and profitability will go up and down, but now we see in the future that the profitability will probably be good over a long time, and it is my hope that it will be able to develop positively also in the two northernmost states. At least that's a good example of it, and I'm very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e741	It is not my intention to extend the debate. To the representative of Fylkesnes: We take things seriously. That is why we have set up the obligation commission, which is to look at the delivery obligations – which I suggested under the previous government, and which was voted down. We've taken that up. Now we look at those conflicts, do something with them. We are evaluating the structural quota system: the Eiden committee is entering into and looking at how this scheme has worked, and what it will lead to in the future. We take those things seriously. With regard to the debt burden, we have decided that the industry should serve this debt itself. We have said that the industry must take the cost of modernizing the fleet itself. We have taken action so that youth in Finnmark have the same framework conditions when they go to the bank, as is the youth in Northern Ireland. I think that's a good arrangement to get people to bet. My father had a fishing boat at 31 feet. Today such a boat fishes three times as much as the father did. Not because the father was a bad fisherman, but because the boat is built much, much better, is much, much more efficient. Fishing equipment is more efficient, fishing equipment is much, much more efficient. This leads to fewer fishermen in that industry as well. This isn't about people not going in there, it's about us having a fleet that's more efficient. We take up resources more efficiently, with fewer hands – just as we have fewer people in the Equation Office, fewer people in the gas stations and fewer people in the banks. It's not alarming. What can be alarming is if one suddenly sees that we have a fleet that is not modern, that we have a fleet that does not renew, that we have a fleet that does not recruit. We've taken a serious look at recruitment. That's why we have apprentice quotas. The fishing boat is now a learning business where the youth gets on board and is trained skillfully to become skilled professionals in the future. That is why we have doubled the quota for secondary schools. Schools should be able to provide good education to young people. The Youth Fishing Scheme is a holiday scheme and very good for young people who want to snoop in this profession, but it is not essential for us to recruit for the fishing profession – if some 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds are allowed to drag some fishermen on the Easter holidays or for Christmas. It's not about that. It is about the right measures we have taken – the apprenticeship system, that we have doubled the quota for schools, given young people the opportunity to go to the bank and finance fishing vessels, and a system that makes it possible now to modernise the fleet so that they can get on board a modern job. It recruits for this profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e754	I also do not want to withdraw the debate, but it is an important topic. The attitude is now here, and I don't have any challenges in figuring out or putting strategies for recruiting and including young people in it. It's easy to do, and I think it's pretty easy to do, too, because then you get some data about what the representative Knag Fylkesnes is very concerned about – that we see a fall in recruitment. Then it may be important to get involved in development, because things have happened since 1999, and especially since 2010–2011. In 2013, we had at least a dramatic fall in the number of participants in juvenile fisheries. In 2010 there were 145 participants, in 2011 there were 168 and in 2015 83 participants. It's a halve. It might be good to figure out why we got the big case. There may be different reasons for that. Youth has a great sense of freedom of choice, so it may have been other offers that were more attractive at that time, and we must respect that. When the representative of Knag County asks questions about who is serving the good fisheries and aquaculture, my claim is that everyone is serving on it. No one wants Norwegian business to go well, whether it be aquaculture or fisheries. After the major debates and structural developments, the fisherman has had a significantly better development in profitability, i.e. more money in the bag than he has had on land. There has been a much more tearing development in this way for the fisherman. If you want to follow the argument of the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, the Youth Fishing Scheme has also made a few more profit, because in 2015 the value per participant was almost NOK 17 000, while in 2009 it was only NOK 8 000. So the value of participating in youth fishing has also doubled. There's a smaller number of participants, but there's a greater profitability in it. I must say that I fully agree with the representative, Bakke-Jensen. If you are to recruit young people for fisheries and aquaculture in the future, you must at least have facilities and technologies that young people demand and want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e763	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e768	It's an expression called Follow the Money. Because of the increase in the price growth in this field, we know that the money is more likely to borrow, that's a fact – so less is going to create value along the coast. It's just to take it seriously, I think the representatives Grimstad and Bakke-Jensen should do it, they should take it seriously. When it comes to fleet renewal, it is interesting that the vessels with a length that has been outside the structural quota system have renewed as much as those that have been inside. One has not been dependent on creating that kind of debt reserve to renew and create new technologies. It must be a paradox – for the Hill-Jensen at least. If it turns out that this price-gap attracts the carpet away from the recruitment of the large seafood nation of Norway, at least the government party should be willing to look at what might dampen this price-gap. If I don't start to wonder what the world wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e775	This gradually led to an overarching fisheries debate, and there are real differences in the fisheries policy, and that is not to be overlooked. But I think sticking to what this case applies, namely the extension of the juvenile fisheries system, can be an advantage. This is a very important issue, and I shall not in any way put an end to the debate, but at the risk of being a party brake: we will all have a reasonable opportunity to discuss the general overarching political divides in the fisheries policy. These are big, important issues, they're actually in line, and I want to end by thanking the government party for the signal they've given, that they're actually going to go in and support the proposal that's ahead, so there's going to be a joint committee that's voting here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e780	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e796	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e803	Tourism fishing along the coast has increased significantly in recent years, with more and more tourism businesses heading towards this market. It is both important and right to invest in a growing market for experience tourism by taking advantage of our foremost advantage: the fjords and our long-distance coast. The Committee shows the willingness to invest in tourist fishing, and we have also been able to gather on some important points for future rules on tourist fishing. To facilitate tourist fishing within a resilient framework, we are all a few. Today, however, there is no control over how much fish are fished by foreign tourists. We have to get this sorted out. The Committee is aware that it is important to get a comprehensive overview of how much fish actually goes to foreign tourists. The Committee also supports the introduction of a registration system for tourist fishing establishments and the mandatory reporting of catches. This was presented by the Workers' Party on the fisheries policy platform for about 20 years. Two years ago, and we are very pleased that a broad political environment now supports a registration system. It has been sent out from the department's side on hearing amendments to new rules for tourist fishing. The Hearing Officers provide their suggestions far on the way. The exception is point 2, on the introduction of fishing permits for foreign tourists, point 6, on changes in promises to transfer the administration to the municipalities, and point 5, that fish can only be taken out of the country if they are fished in cooperation with a registered tourist fishing establishment. The majority of the committee goes against the three points that I mentioned here. It is very gratifying that a joint committee says that conversion rules should be drawn up so that the number of kilograms that tourists can take out of the country is now to be calculated in round fish. Today's practice of loins and fillets is literally yesterday's solution, where the majority of the fish are thrown. This is not in line with the big crowd's desire and will when it comes to exploiting the whole fish and all the raw material. I hope that support will also be provided for the submissions that lead to consideration in this matter today. What the committee did not agree on was to go clearly against an increase of 15 to 30 kg of fish. But it does the Left, the Center Party, the SV and the Workers' Party. Nor will it be negotiated to include trophies. This is supported by the Center Party, SV and the Working Party. But I interpret the others in the committee so that one wants to wait until the travel news – where tourist fishing is to be mentioned – comes, and that one is not against the inclusion of trophies. There is also a joint committee which points out that fishing is the main essence of tourist fishing, not food, and that the number of kilograms to be exported should be reduced when the fish is not caught at a registered tourist facility. The Committee notes that foreign tourists are not allowed to sell the catch. 15 kilos of fillet fish is a relatively large quantity, which is actually a year’s consumption of a diet based on fish. The Committee is also gathered in the view that tourist fishing should be included in the expected travel life message. The Labour Party and the Centre also request that the export requirement for the number of kilograms be settled per year, not per export – as is currently the case – and submit proposals to that effect today. With regard to the detailed rules for the implementation of the registration and reporting arrangements, all, apart from the member of the Socialist Left Party, agree with the Ministry that it should not be concluded until the end of the hearing. The majority will not support the requirement in point 2 of this Document-8 proposal on the introduction of fishing licences for foreign tourists. The majority also do not support point 6, submitted to transfer the right to manage tourist fishing to the municipalities. Management and control of marine resources is currently under the responsibility of the Directorate of Fisheries. They have good local knowledge and good competence. The majority point out that the Directorate of Fisheries will continue to be best placed to manage the control and management tasks of the tourism industry. I hereby take up all the minority proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e835	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e840	In the last 15 to 20 years, there has been a emergence of several tourism businesses that facilitate so-called tourist fishing. These enterprises base their business on the extraction of our common and limited fishing resources. We do not have a good overview of how much fish this activity collects from our common resources, because we do not have a good framework associated with this activity. I, who comes from Sunnmaere, have even seen companies where the same guests come back every year, which shows how attractive this type of travel industry is. They fish -- and they fish well. Their ability to absorb significant amounts is well-placed. So it's understandable that the discussion is about total withdrawals. The representatives from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left indicate that the government has proposals for changes to the Tourist Fishing Code and that knowledge from the Hearing Round is not yet the lead. The government also has a big message about travel life in preparation and considers it appropriate that questions about tourist fishing be considered in that context. Then there's a discussion about the hearing proposal from the department to increase legal exports from 15 to 30 kilos if the tourists have fished under the control of a registered tourist fishing company. The discussion also discusses whether trophy fish should be part of this total volume. The hearing and travel messages will address these questions in more detail and will address what proposers are concerned about, to be long-term and secure for future industries, as this represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e853	Norway is a popular destination for many reasons. We have a beautiful nature, and we have a long coast, where the possibility of fishing tempts many tourists. Tourist fishing has increased considerably in recent years. There come people from all over the world to fish the finest and largest kveita or cod. This is important for travel life along the coast. At the same time, it is important to do so within the framework of sustainable management. One of the challenges for tourist fishing is that after the fillets are cut and packed, there will be a lot of fish left. This leads to a lot of fish being thrown. We in the committee have had one thing to do to prevent food throwing. This is also included here. That is why the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 3, which is promoted by the Workers' Party and, I think, the Centre Party – now I was a bit stunned – because in the notes, but not in the verbal proposal, together with the rest of the committee, the government is asking for a conversion rule, so that the number of kilograms is calculated in round fish. It's to help prevent the fillet from being used and the rest thrown. Today we have no control over how much fish is fishing as part of the tourist fishing quota. I am therefore pleased with the answer, which shows that the government is aware of the challenge and is already taking action to ensure better governance, including: with a proposal which is now being consulted, to establish a registration system for tourist fishing establishments and mandatory reporting of catches. I expect the government to follow up on the right and good actions at the end of the hearing, and that this will be discussed in more detail in the travel life message that the government will be submitting. I look forward to continuing to work on this in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e866	Tourist fishing and the fact that people want to come to Norway to fish, is basically a great good thing, but it has to happen within a few frames. In order not to withdraw the debate unnecessarily, I will only fully join the post of the representative, Mr Hämdal, and what has been said. There was one confusion in the post from the representative, Mr Hemdal, and it was on proposal No. 3 was from the Workers' Party or from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. The right thing is, it's from the Labour Party and the Center Party. The reason given by the centre party for voting against proposal No. 4, 5 and 6, from SV, we're afraid that this will be added to a system that would have our good in an ideal value, but that will cause a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy, which is not consistent with the benefits that the proposals would provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e875	The Minister for Fisheries shall provide the Committee with a good response letter with relevant assessments, as is the case in this case. What is written about the registration system for tourist fishing establishments and mandatory reporting of catches are measures that will provide a better overview – and indeed the necessary overview. There is an overall committee that points out that it is important to get an overview of how much fish actually goes to tourist fishing. Tourist fishing is important for many coastal communities, and the Left wants this to be and become an attractive industry for both existing and new tourist businesses. The fishing industry and the tourism industry live side by side in many places, and situations will quickly arise in which resource withdrawals from the sea are murmured. How much of certain coastal populations are harvested? Fishermen have reporting obligations. It doesn't have the tourist companies. I am pleased that it is being proposed. This case, from SV, comes in the middle of a hearing conducted by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, linked to tourist fishing. In this picture, I am pleased that a large majority of the Committee, all except the SV’s representative, agree with the Ministry that it is not necessary to conclude with detailed rules on the implementation of the registration and reporting arrangements until the end of the consultation process. Something else I'm glad that a large majority in the committee rejects is the proposal to transfer the right to manage tourist fishing to the municipalities. Fishing resources are national and must be managed nationally. It's been pointed out by several people. I fully agree with that. Finally, I would like to announce that the Left supports proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which deals with conversion rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e888	Fishing tourism is an amazingly exciting industry. She has grown up and is now becoming a really big national industry. It probably hasn't stopped. This industry will grow further in the coming years. It's amazing. What makes it so exciting is that this is an industry that is linked to district construction and to jobs in the districts. One can specify about income by being a reintroduction, a main industry or a mid-season industry — there are a lot of exciting aspects to this. It's not a suspicion, but it complements other industries in a very nice way. So far there has been little regulation around this part of the industry. There have been no specific requirements for companies operating in this field, there have been no specific requirements for boats used here, and one has long had an export quota that has not been seen under critical searchlights, while one knows that a lot of fish disappears out of the country, much more than one can catch with the few controls that are. That is the background for SV to present this proposal before the summer. What's good is that the committee agrees that one needs to move into this, but just after SV put forward this proposal before summer, the government came up with a hearing note in this area and started its work. All of a sudden, in half a year, all of us are all saying that we now need to do something, now we need to frame this industry. It may not have been right to frame it into a start-up phase to see what kind of growth it may have, but now, when the scale of this has become so large both in revenue and in activity at sea, it is time to get it right. Then our suggestion is that one must have a registration of the companies. There must be an approval system for boats. We know that very many of the marine accidents involve foreigners, and that part of those who lose their lives at sea are foreigners. They are overrepresented in these statistics. Our main idea is that we want to link the foreign tourist fishermen to these businesses, so that most dishes and positive schemes are linked to registered businesses. So we want to create a local administration, according to the river management model, not that the exit management should be local, as one might understand – or misunderstand – of the post of the representative Farstad that it means, but that one builds up a local management through the establishment of a fishing permit. That's exactly what we have in river management, and there's a lot of people about being a great success. This means that you have people locally who care about how tourist fishing goes, not just business operators or, if necessary, tourist fishermen, one also has someone from the local or regional level who cares and follows what happens. This is an area where we don't know how much is actually taken up, that is, how much of the extract from the tourist fishing actually is. It has been estimated by some researchers as much as 30,000 tonnes – that is, there are significant withdrawals. Today, a set of it has some 7 000 tonnes in the negotiations with Russia, but it is believed to be considerably higher. So the fact that from the Norwegian side there is an administration where we get more control over this tourist fishing, I think is very important also for the negotiations with Russia. This has been something that has gone under the radar, silently, with the Russians, but which, when you start to see the scope of this, is something the Russians want to get better control of. So for me, it's quite unlikely that it's hard to understand why you're going to have a system where you're allowed for foreigners to take fish out of the country, with an export quota of 15 kg. The representative Hegø was in on this. It's totally incomprehensible. One can't find any other areas in the Norwegian community where one can actually do the same thing. And there is no country — I have asked the Council of State, which cannot refer to any other country — that has a similar system. It's weird. I think it's a good idea to ask why not use the whole fish, when one of the other parts of society is concerned about putting it all into use. And then you can also ask yourself, when you have a minister from the Progress Party and one in other areas is so concerned that foreigners are not going to get along, why is it really going to be allowed to do it when it comes to tourist fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e907	Although I represent the Advancement Party, I am not a supporter of the fact that you should get along without at least having agreed in advance that you can get along, and that is what we are discussing here. Proposals for legislative changes and new rules on tourist fishing activities have been consulted. The most important aspect of the consultation proposal is that Section 22 of the Marine Resource Act provides, where appropriate, a basis for reporting obligations on the resource take-off undertaken under this type of activity. In this we propose to introduce a mandatory registration of tourist fishing establishments. Furthermore, we propose to establish a simple reporting mechanism — if this type of reporting can be called ‘simple’ to operate. But for the resource take-off, it's important. The aim is to get a better picture, a greater and better overview of the overall resource outreach resulting from tourist fishing. It was proposed to increase the export quota from 15 kg to 30 kg for tourists who have been caught under the control of registered tourist fishing establishments. I would also like to point out that the majority of the Industry Committee strongly supports the main points of the consultation proposal regarding the registration of tourist fishing establishments and the reporting system for fish harvesting. That's good. As regards the consultation of the proposal, the deadline for consultation was 9 November. The response has been great. We've received over 50 hearings. It only confirms the great commitment that exists out there about the future of this industry. The impression is that there have been many good and constructive recordings. I would also like to mention that a conference on maritime tourism was held in Tromsø between 17 and 18. November. The participants at the conference were largely tourist fishing establishments. This led to a number of useful and important discussions and recordings during the hearing. The feedback received during the conference reinforces the overall positiveness of the written input in the consultation round. As regards the general feedback on the proposals, there seems to be a broad consensus on aid to introduce registration of enterprises. The introduction of catch reporting is welcomed by the vast majority of the recordings. Objections are more detailed on how this is to be done in practice, so that the system can operate in a practical and least burdensome way for the actors. As regards the proposal to increase the export quota to 30 kg for those who have used compliant enterprises, there are shared opinions on this. While some people support the idea of increasing to 30 kg, others suggest that it should not be changed from today’s 15 kg. I am now working to complete the regulation and the bill change proposal and aim to promote the proposition as soon as possible. I have some comments on paragraphs 2 and 6 of the draft representative from the representatives of Knag Fylkesnes and Serigstad Valen. With regard to the introduction of fishing licenses for foreign tourists, I maintain my scepticism. In Norway, we have a long tradition of free-time fishing in the sea, and we do not require fishing licenses. I think this is good. The introduction of fishing permits for non-residents is likely to involve a whole new form of discrimination based on nationality which would need to be further assessed in relation to a particular agreement. I believe that the legislative and regulatory proposal we have now on the table is a right step towards a more transparent situation for operators that facilitate the extraction of fish for nutritional purposes. With regard to the proposal for legislative changes to give municipalities the right to manage professional tourist fishing, I see no need to go further. The management of marine resources is currently taking place at national level. There are several reasons for this, including: these are marine living resources that do not naturally belong to a particular municipality. The task of managing and controlling marine resources is currently with the Directorate of Fisheries. I therefore believe that the proposal to move this task from the fisheries management authorities is unfortunate. I am not in doubt that the administration we have today is best suited to control and management tasks related to the tourist fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e943	It's going to be line change. The President again points out that technology is failing here, and that those who want to speak in a line have to draw in the old-fashioned way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e951	Foreign tourists are unable to sell their catch, and Stortinget points out that it is the experience and not the food that is the essence of tourist fishing. In addition, we have a nutrition board that says that 15 kilos is the right volume to eat, and that of the 15 kilos, two thirds should be fat fish. That 30 kilos is the right volume, what does the council build it on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e956	That's a good question. 30 kilograms is not absolute. 30 kilograms was what we sent out. I now operate and evaluate different models for that. Maybe you're going to make a 20-kg distinction for those who are registered, and you're going to maintain 15 kilograms for those who are not registered, or 20 kilograms for those who are registered, and 10 kilograms for those who are unregistered, etc. There are several models I'm assessing there. 30 kilos isn't absolute, and I'm listening to the hearing recordings I've got. I also listen to the Storting and what opinions they have about it. So 30 kilograms is not absolute in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e961	That was a soothing answer. The Committee is also very clear that there should be a difference between registered and unregistered. So that view we share. Then it's just to cross your fingers and hope that the government is listening to those who think 30 kilos is too much, at least because one doesn't seem to want to include the trophy fish. Because if the 30-kilogram proposal goes through, a few trophy fish will be on top of these 30 kilos. It's, in my opinion, very wasted. When you get 10 kilos one day, and then you get 15 kilos the next day, and then you throw it at 15 kilos. It's not in line with what the majority of people think, nor with what the minister thinks, as I see it by using the whole fish. So can the minister explain why he thinks trophy fish shouldn't be included?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e966	I fully agree with Mr Heggø that we should take care of the whole fish. We have to stop wasting. Now we're going to create some strategies to eliminate as much waste as possible from the sea to the table. I think that's an important task for all of us. When it comes to including trophy fish in the border, there's something I'm looking at. I got some good recordings during the hearing, and also during the tourist conference in Tromsø there came many good impressions, which means that this by including trophies in practice makes it even more complicated than what is necessary. That's why I haven't concluded in any way there yet. I saw that the Minister of Agriculture also tried on a line. At least I have to listen to the Storting. I'm totally dependent on that. So essentially, this is going to be more complicated than we might have thought. This is not something that has happened suddenly, it is a process that has gone on for a long time. The industry has wanted this since 2010 – I think it was – so here it is important that we have good processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e977	I thank you for your answer. I have one last question. It is about the travel life message — about tourist fishing will be included in the travel life message. Can the State Council confirm that there will be no postponement of the touristic news?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e984	I note that there is now a majority in the Stortinget for proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I ask questions about whether this should be included in the travel life message. I have ambitions to come to Stortinget with a billing proposal and get the regulation on tourist fishing before that. I do not know if I interpret the bulk of the population correctly, but then there is a mention in the travel news when it might have to come. I have ambitions to make a legislative proposal a little before the travel life announcement to get this in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e989	The next replicant is the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes. Before the representative is given the floor, will the President assume that he will take up the proposals 4, 5 and 6?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e996	Thanks for the reminder. Yes, I would like to make those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1001	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1006	When the starting point for the Council of State is that one should extend the export quota from 15 to 30 kilos, the rationale is primarily the need for registration. Here is the proposal from SV and the proposal from the government the same: a thought that by getting this into organized forms through registered enterprises will get a much better overview. But I don't see what's the reason why a good person does this by increasing from 15 to 30 kilograms. Why can't the government go in for a model where you can't run fish out of the country unless you're connected to that type of business? It would create a regime that was much more transparent, so that tourists didn't have to weigh and assess, etc. before leaving – they simply cannot take fish unless they have received a final package seat from a registered company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1011	It could have been a solution. The reason why we raise the limit is because we want to make it attractive to register, first and foremost. So I've said that the number 30 is not absolute. There doesn't have to be any innerways. But creating a difference between those who register, versus those who don't, so that we get control and systems around it, I think it's important. If it's 10 and 20 kilograms or 10 and 25 kilograms, I haven't made a decision yet. I also record that SV asked the government to clarify the export requirement as to whether the number of kilograms should apply per year. There I went a little bit, because I'm a little uncertain about what the proposal is all about. I think it's easier to link the kilo requirement to the actual export at the border, rather than to set an annual quota. Here I almost have to ask the representative to clarify it a little more for me, because I am not sure if I understand the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1021	I am asking for answers from the Council of State. If one goes through it critically, it is the primary desire of SV that one should not be able to perform fish at all. So this is kind of a secondary position for us, where we're going to go in order for one to have a round review, so that one not only has the fillet, happens out the best parts and gets the rest. As the system is today, the export system applies on a case-by-case basis. Now, if we come back to the proper relationship between big business and government, I'm going to come back to a question. Drag and drop, drag and roll to get the size of the fish that you want, you know, you're doing a lot along the coast. It's kind of a small-scale variation of what we're very opposed to the big trawlers doing -- they pull up and then they spill dead fish into the ocean. It's pretty much one sees that those who are looking for the big trophy fish actually do. Is the increasing volume of this along the coast something of concern to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1030	Yes, that's some reason why we want to get this into regulated forms – better control of what's being extracted, and the consideration of our resources – get this within a framework that makes us have more control. With more supervision and more control over registration, there is a bit more bureaucracy and a little more reporting also for the business community, but the business community, especially all the companies involved in this, has themselves said that they want this. But it's clear that one of the reasons why you want to have tourist fishing in controlled forms is that you're worried about this. The coastal cod has also been a concern in this. That's why it's okay to get this under control, so we know what's actually being picked up. Various reports from 2008 and up to now point to the extent of this. There are large amounts in some reports, and then there are some who are a little more modest about what is being picked up. Now I think we can get the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1041	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1059	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1068	As the President said, this is a matter of looking at how we are going to achieve the goal of increasing organic consumption and agricultural land by 2020, and the proposer, Rasmus Hansson, has made 12 concrete proposals in this matter. The Committee has, of course, looked at them and thought that it would make sense to look at a comprehensive strategy around this. It is important to make proposals, but it is also important to look at how to meet them. the criticism made by the Riksrevision, because the Riksrevision indicates that the public consumption of organic food has not been adequately facilitated. And the need for a comprehensive strategy and the need to look at findings and recommendations in the National Audit Office's report becomes important. In response, the Council of State wrote to the Committee that during the autumn he made a major communication on the agricultural sector, and that this will also be discussed in the big news. Now it's pretty close to Christmas, so if it's going to stand, it has to come in a very short time. What is also important then is that the situation in organic farming is not only discussed, but that we also look at the type of action to be taken. The council also wrote that there's going to be a separate, comprehensive strategy after that message, so we're going to bet that you're even more concrete there. As for what the committee has done, it is that we attach this to the protocol. The left and the left have their own suggestions, which I expect them to put forward themselves. I would recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1084	The content of my post is very similar to that of the representative of Bottens, and I will just briefly explain the Right View in this matter. A total increase in 2005 adopted a target of 15 pst. the organic production and consumption of food by 2015. In 2010, this period was extended to 2020, and we are now far from this goal. As the representative Botten said, the National Audit Office’s study of the authorities’ efforts to achieve the objectives has shown that the development of organic production and consumption is not in line with the objective set by the Stortinget. During the examination of the report, the majority in the United Kingdom stated that there is a need to develop a comprehensive strategy for organic farming. In this context, it was also shown that the strategy would naturally look at the findings and recommendations of the Riksrevision in its report. The Agriculture Communication to the Stortinget before Christmas will discuss the situation of organic farming, and the Council of State, by letter of 13 October 2016, informed the Committee that the Ministry will start work on a strategy for organic farming following the submission of the Agriculture Communication. The same letter states that the Ministry has already initiated various investigations that will form the basis for the strategy and that it aims to involve key actors in this work. It is natural that this proposal for a representative is assessed in the work on the strategy on organic farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1098	The center is behind the target of 15 pst. Organic farming, and of course we want one to reach that goal when the Stortinget has seen such a goal. At the same time, it is important to note that it must be decisive for consumers to be in demand for organic food and that consumption must be adapted to it. In the Centerpartiet we want people to have access to Norwegian food, Norwegian food. It applies whether they are organic or conventional. I think one in the discussion about organic food could have been more honest in the communication. One is very busy that organic food is good for everything, anyway. I don't think it's possible to scare neither the climate nor the environment by eating organic kiwi imported from New Zealand, just as little as it's possible to save the climate by eating organic avocado transported from Peru. Then it's actually better with apples from Hardanger, even if they were to be conventionally cultivated. That's a little bit of the core of the question of organic food. We must not market organic food in a way that makes consumers feel that conventional food is dangerous for the environment and for people. That's what I'm busy about, and it's the center party busy. When it comes to the concrete proposals, we want – and we have noticed – a reference to organic farming in the agricultural communications. I also expect the Ministry to provide an assessment of the potential target conflicts in agriculture. We say that we want more organic production, but we also say that we want to increase Norwegian food production, and then at least one has to have organic farming as a contribution to a high level of organic production. If you don't, it will be impossible to reach both targets. It is an example of one of the objectives of the agricultural policy, and I think it is important for us, when the Storting should deal with the message, to give clear feedback. I think it would be easier for the agricultural management to follow it up if one has targets that are more consistent with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1110	There is a broad political consensus that we should have food production in Norway and that we should have attractive agriculture in all parts of the country. But if we are to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we also need to be careful and conscious of what is a prerequisite for food production, our food soil. Environmental and resource-friendly use must be an important step in Norwegian agriculture. The trustee shall be liable. It commits us to provide the resource base so that we can transfer the earth and a good basis for food production to future generations as well. For the Christian People's Party, responsible and sustainable environmental and resource management in agriculture is a core value. It's part of the whole ecological mindset that has to shape us even more strongly in the future. Organic farming plays an important role in the development of agriculture. This way of farming can help to make agriculture more environmentally friendly and sustainable, and as the proposer also points out, this form of production shall be a spearhead in the development of Norwegian agriculture. This house has a measure that we're going to have 15 pst. organic consumption and agricultural land by 2020. It's an important goal, but it's a very ambitious goal when we know where we are now, and what happens to get there. At the same time, we see that we have an increased awareness of consumers about what they eat, and how both nature and animals are treated in the production of food. Norwegian consumers want more organic food, and according to the Agriculture Directorate, we have seen a large growth in sales in the last six months, of over 20 pst. On the part of the Council of State, it has been said that we will have a debate on organic farming when the agricultural notification comes, and that strategic work will also be started after the notification has been promoted. I expect the government to work well and quickly on this strategy, so that we get the right measures to be taken for consumption and production, to increase the share of organic farming in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1123	First of all, I would like to thank Rasmus Hansson, the proposer. Like the Green Party, the Left and I are committed to increasing organic production and consumption in Norway, and not least to achieving the ecological goals set by the Stortinget. Therefore, the Left and SV promote the following proposals in this case: ‘The size calls on the government in the forthcoming farm growth report to present a strategy on which measures it will implement to comply with the size decision of at least 15 pst. organic production and consumption, and a timetable of responsibilities for implementation.’;» I am addressing the proposal that is referred to here. The left considers that this addresses what should be addressed in this case, with the expectation that the responsible State Council will follow up. We do not want to provide an exhaustive list of the elements to be followed by the Ministry, but point out, together with the majority of the Committee, that there is a need for new measures to be taken in order to achieve the objective set by the Storting. There's a hurry to get on the offensive. Finally, if the agricultural notification comes in one of the next few days, I see, of course, that it may be difficult to get an ecological strategy in the message. I look forward to what the Minister of Agriculture has to say about this. Anyway, it's urgent to get on the offensive on this topic, and it's going to work fast on a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1139	The representative of Pál Farstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1144	Ten years after the Stortinget first gathered on a target for organic farming, a total increase in 2009 adopted a target of 15 pst. organic consumption and agricultural land by 2020. Now, seven years later, this is a goal we will never achieve unless we adopt clearly better and more obligating measures and measures to increase the turnover, production and profits of organic food in Norway. The status of both the red-green and blue-blue targets for organic farming is very poor, and unfortunately it is similar to the total absence of the red-green and blue-blue targets in the climate issue and in terms of halting biodiversity loss. These are a little sad examples of environmental goals that the Storting has set itself and is very little concerned with reaching. And at a time when politicians despise and political movements that we don't like to see are starting to get quite intrusive, it's not good that we have discussions about things where the Storting is so far from doing what they've told them to do. Riksrevisor Per-Kristian Foss formally slaughtered the measures taken by the authorities for organic farming. Organic farming in Norway has become less attractive. There are fewer farmers who want to run organically, and so several of the measures work against their purpose. If we count the areas that are being converted into organic, into the numbers, it's just about 5 pst. of the agricultural area which is organically managed by legislation and which is in a negative direction. And so does the organic livestock. It's very long up to 15 pst. But consumption is increasing. The problem with that is, of course, that then we have a trend that is moving towards what the representative Pollestad is worried about, that people are eating more and more imported organic avocados and not good apples from Hardanger. The main reason for the investment in organic production is that it takes extra account of the environment and animal welfare and that the organic production form should be a spearhead in the work to make Norwegian agriculture more sustainable. There is no contradiction between conventional agriculture and organic farming, and that's also why we have a moderate ambition for organic farming, 15 pst. – that means 85 pst. conventional agriculture. But the synergy effect is that organic methodology and thinking are also good for conventional agriculture. When we talk to the agricultural organisations, I experience very little contrast between them, the conventional agricultural organisations, and the ecological thinking. The Council of State writes to the Economic and Social Committee on 13 October that the Ministry will establish a strategy for organic farming after the agricultural notification comes, and that is the majority of the Committee's satisfaction with – we also – only that will happen soon. All the parties want to develop such a strategy at some point, but we are already lagging behind with that strategy as well. I see no obstacle to the fact that today we had actually been able to agree on a strategy that includes a timetable with responsibilities for implementation, and therefore I hope that at least a majority will vote in favour of the proposal from the Left and the SV, which corresponds to our proposal No. 7, but which therefore specifies that measures should be included in the agricultural notification. Similarly, we support the five proposals from the SV with good measures and instruments that we believe should be included in the forthcoming strategy for organic farming. This is an opportunity to start delivering on a policy adopted, repeated and strengthened by the Great Britain for the longest time, and for which there is very little reason that the Great Britain and the Government should not implement. The time has come to listen to consumers. They want organic food. Set it up in Norway and take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1161	Does the President assume that the representative should address his proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1166	I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1171	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1177	What would we do without the president? We had not had many suggestions to make here in the hall – so thank you. Before I forget that, I would also like to make the suggestions that SV has in the setting. The 15 pst goal has been a goal that has played SV's project closely. It was Inge Ryan who, in his time, made this proposal and presented it, so there are good and long traditions for the ecological investment in SV. This is about the food we're going to have on the table. We do not know enough today how our health is affected by the fact that we have a food with residues from spray or synthetic additives. Therefore, it should be possible to go to the store and find food that is clean, which does not have spray, food preparations or synthetic additives. The food we eat should also come from animals that have lived good lives, under conditions that facilitate good animal welfare. According to Oikos, organic hens are the only ones that have access to outdoor areas today. Therefore, working for more organic food is also a matter of making Norwegian agriculture more resilient and animal welfare better. In 2009, the whole Storting decided that 15 p.m. the consumption of food and agricultural land in Norway in 2020 would be organic. It was a very hairy goal. The excitement was great, one had great ambitions, but it was clear that this had to be followed up with political action. In some areas, we must be able to say that we have made great progress. In the last year, demand for organic food has increased by over 20 pst. So people want organic food. But although more people want more organic food, we are still far away from the goal of the Stortinget in 2009. When the Riksrevision looked at the measures that had been taken to increase organic production and consumption in Norway, they found that the authorities had not done enough. So it was quite clear that there was no link between the measures and the objectives. They found out that the production of organic food had actually gone down, contrary to what the Storting had decided. Now we need a government that is putting more effort into giving us sustainable food on the table. SV has several suggestions on this issue, to make sure that work can speed up. Among other things, we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a strategy and a timetable to achieve the goal of organic production and consumption in the coming agricultural message. It must be the minimum to be able to achieve the 15 pst goal at all. as the whole Stortinget entered in 2009. We also need to know more about organic food. SV suggests that we increase the funding for research on organic farming. We suggest that more educational institutions than at present provide a holistic educational offer in organic farming. We can then lay the groundwork for future farmers to be viable production methods. Finally, I would like to add that it is very exciting to meet farmers who have taken the step into the organic sector. There is a very good energy in those environments. There are a lot of young people in particular who want to face the big professional challenge that it's actually driving organically, and they really need the handshake this is. Here, there is a group in Norwegian agriculture that has a lot of energy around it, which wants to develop agriculture further. Then I really think that the Storting should put the pressure behind the measures we actually see ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1196	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1201	Let me start a little bit where the representative Knag County ended. When the representative Knag County says that we need food that is pure, and high animal welfare in Norwegian agriculture, and that therefore we need more organic farming, I think a driving risk sport, by talking down the value of conventional agriculture in Norway. I'll warn Storting against that. For one of the main competitive advantages of Norwegian agriculture is that we actually produce our food with very high animal welfare – with better animal welfare than most competing countries around us – and our food is produced with significantly lower medical use and with significantly lower levels of spray and other, including conventional agriculture. For this reason, I think that one is in danger of creating an impression of conventional food production that is not real, when one clearly says that one needs organic operations to have pure food and high animal welfare. We don't. But the Stortinget has set a target of 15 pst. organic production and agricultural area by 2020. It is a very demanding goal to achieve, and changing governments have been criticised for not having made enough progress compared to the goal that the Storting has already seen. It's enough time to take over that we're a little bit away from achieving that goal by 2020. I think it's very likely that we can't do it, almost regardless of how much effort you put in the pot. It is that the conversion time to organic production is so long that the actual balancing of production and area by 2020 appears to be extremely demanding. That's why I've informed the committee that I want to address these issues in the coming agricultural report that can be expected very close in time. At the same time, there are positive developments in organic farming. It's quite right that demand has increased by almost 22 pst. from the first half of 2015 to the first half of 2016, but still only 1.6 pst. of the total turnover in organic wholesale trade. It shows the greatest conflict we have in the debate on organic and conventional agriculture, that despite the fact that we are well away from achieving the objectives set by the Stortinge, we still have significantly greater production of certain goods than we have the same goods. Thus, both in meat production and in milk production, the level of organically produced meat and milk is significantly higher than that of the grocery trade. This means that we're in a situation where we produce goods that consumers don't have enough demand. As a result, the representative Pollestad has a point when he highlights the conflicts between organic and conventional agriculture. That doesn't mean that there's no responsibility on this government to try to reach the goals that the Storting has set. I have also laid the foundation for the work we have done in this period of government, and there is a strong commitment to organic through, for example. This year's agricultural agreement. At the same time, it's definitely one of the reasons why we don't have more demand for organic products, I think that there's a lot of trust in Norwegian conventional production. For me, who is grown up on a sheep farm, and who has seen Norwegian lambs grazing from birth and fourteen days old until they were brought back from the mountain and sent to the slaughterhouse – we know that the distance between conventional agriculture and organic farming in Norway appears to be less for many consumers than he does in surrounding countries, which have a significantly more industrialized conventional production than we have tradition of in this country. This means that if we're actually going to succeed in increasing the agricultural production of organic products over time, we need consumers to actually demand these goods to a greater extent than they do today. At the same time, there are great possibilities both for conventional production and for organic production, but the best way we can achieve it is conscious consumers who take the choice and trade these goods. Norwegian agriculture has shown the ability and the will to correct the market. This is essentially what has our challenges to organic production: the goods are not sufficiently requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1223	I have to say that I very much agree with what the Council of State said in the pulpit here now. It was an article that I believe is a good situational description. It's a challenge to make consumers think more ecologically when they're at the store, but it's also that the Swedes and the Danes have come far ahead of us. Then you can ask yourself the question of why that is. Is it because the Norwegian consumer feels safe in Norwegian food production initially thinking that the path to organic might not be that great? In this case, we have received a response from the Council of State, which says that this will be discussed in the big news coming in the autumn, and then I expect it to be the autumn of 2016. Then I would like to know if the Council of State intends to follow that plan and whether we can see the big message in the store door closing in the course of a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1230	Now I have said that it is «very close in time», and for a sunmer there are not many hours it is about. So the time will show what time it comes to the Storting, I think we say. When it comes to achieving goals within ecology, it is important to include a few more perspectives. Yes, there is a significant increase in the placing on the market of organic food from the first half of 2015 to the first half of 2016, although the total volume is small. But the largest volume of demand comes in the fruit and vegetables sector, largely imported goods. And this is even an area where the Greatness's measure of 15 pst. on the ground does not necessarily build up below the measures that can be reached as quickly as possible, in that demand from consumers must be met. This is because the most area-efficient production we have is on fruit and green, where demand is greater, but even if we're able to meet demand there, we won't be closer to the goal Stortinget has seen, because then we have to increase the production area significantly in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1237	It's a little complex, because all of these good measures to achieve these objectives are not something we can just adopt here, but it also has to do with agricultural settlements. So there's a complex solution you have to look for, and consumers have to want to buy the goods. So it's about doing them to buy what we might want most. In this case, it is also said that we will have a strategy after this big message coming – this year. Then there is a new question about whether the Council of State thinks it takes a long time, because the letter also says that a number of investigations have already been started for this work. So what comes where, and when, it's interesting for the committee to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1244	I've learned that a minority government should have some respect for the Storting. This means that the rate I set when it comes to developing that strategy will be influenced by the extent to which the size of the population is going to mean a lot – based on the agricultural message I am presenting – of how this strategy should be put in place. If the Storting gives a clear signal that they will not go into it thoroughly, we may have a faster progress than if the Storing through the treatment will go into it thoroughly. So I think I'm going to wait to answer very concretely. At the same time, there are great possibilities. One of the great possibilities we have is to translate the products that are now being produced organically, as organic products. We would also end up in a funny target conflict if increasing organic production in practice only resulted in increased food waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1251	And I also share a lot of the opinion that the Council of State expresses in its article. I believe that it is one of the areas that should be central to the discussion of a big message. I believe that the Greens should be honoured for them to take seriously the fact that the Stortinge has set targets and we do not reach them, and then we have to discuss the issue of target conflicts in this. The working party is of the opinion that there are many of them, and follows to a large extent what the council has outlined. But then you point out that you will come up with a strategy when you have discussed the bigotry report. Messages are messages and not necessarily appropriations and clear actions, and it may also be unclear what a strategy really is. Does the Council of State consider that this strategy should contain concrete new measures to increase both the production and consumption of organic products?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1260	I don't ignore that. But as I said in my previous answer, I depend on knowing what signal the Storting wants to give on this when they process the message I will soon submit. The important thing is that in different policy options — and that is why I want to present such a strategy — there can be a range of objectives. It's e.g. so that when we have introduced parts of the support scheme for organic livestock production, it is not only to be organically farmed grassland around the country, but to actually get the final product for consumption out of it. So also within the environmental goals that the Storting has set, there are many target conflicts that you can choose different strategies to achieve. This means that once you have concluded on how to achieve it, you can choose different strategic approaches. It will point to such a strategy, and to what extent it will do so, and what progress it will take will also depend on the treatment of the agricultural message by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1269	The Council of State has been praised by the representative of Botten, and the Council of State has commended and said that Pollestad has a point – the unity is touching. So I see the Council of State that this won't be very long, and that a whole-hearted, liberalistic agricultural message will be presented to the Biggest before the weekend. We're looking forward to that. But a fundamental question that's interesting to address in that context is how far a government council from the Progress Party thinks it's a task for magnification and government to have tools where the intention is to influence the demand for organic food.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1277	Also, a government council that will initially have regulations, has respect for the regulations laid down by the Stortinget, and manages them. Then my discussion of the further will come in the warning of the agricultural message. Basically, I think that the best way to influence changes in agricultural policy is to influence demand. The least incisive regulation that individual farmers will experience is if the change in demand — which usually takes some time — develops, rather than abrupt political shifts. If one is to choose to regulate different parts of the market and agricultural production, I think that actively influencing how demand develops over some time is the least invasive way for each farmer. And in the choice between cross-cutting considerations and what to regulate, I don't think that's the worst way to regulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1284	One might wonder if we are involved in one of the reasons why organic farming can be slowly converted, when we hear how concerned both the Minister of Agriculture and several representatives are about the competitive impact of organic farming on conventional agriculture. I think it's a reconstructed concern. Rather, it is rather the opposite that strengthened organic farming will also strengthen the image and confidence of Norwegian agriculture in general. But we have a development where we don't get enough sales of the right products and where we need more demand than we have. To follow up on what was raised in the previous question: We know very well the effect of meat advertising, partly self-enforced and state-supported meat advertising, which leads to a strong increase in the consumption of meat in Norway. Does the Council of State, in order to advance any measures, consider that active advertising for organic farming can become an instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1291	It is true that the public resources available for marketing in the agricultural sector are largely based on the establishment by the Storting of an agricultural agreement where such things have been negotiated. So initially, it's a responsibility that Stortinget was willing to take. We also use significant resources over the agricultural agreement – in addition to what agriculture already receives for conventional production – to stimulate increased organic production. But then several of them have gone into the distance between Norwegian production, Norwegian demand for organic products and the demand we have in very neighboring countries, for example. Denmark. I mean, I'm a signal that we're doing a lot of right in conventional agricultural production. I mean, there's every reason to talk about the value of it. Then we're still going to work to achieve the goals that the Storting has seen for organic production. We're going to do that through the strategy that's being developed, and I'm not going to speed up single proposals until that's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1300	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1307	I also think I want to hit a blow for conventional agriculture. I just want to say – against the Labour Party's approach to this matter – that if we talk about the real global sustainability, both in terms of climate, food health and animal welfare, then I have to say that the wisest thing we can do is to be able to continue a well-conventional Norwegian agriculture. We have to admit that. One of the reasons why the Workers' Party believes it is important that we also reach goals in organic farming is that we have to look at this as a whole, and that organic production is able to give both good political and real signals to conventional agriculture – and in this way also find niches that are important both for consumers and for producers. So I very much agree with what several representatives have been up here and said now, and I think this must become a central part of the agricultural message that we are going to discuss. So I want to say that in terms of organic farming and the objectives associated with it, it is one of many areas where I would actually prefer to be a national auditor rather than an agricultural minister. It's much easier. It has been said that you are slaughtering the target achievement – and that is what you are doing in all sectors where you do not reach the percentage – but it must not mean that we are going to say good-bye to such an objective. That is why I feel for the Green Party that they are impatient about the goal that has been set – a little in respect of political activity and politicians as such, but also for the actors who live in it – and that this should be extended, both on the supply side and on the demand side. In particular, it is the note on page 2 of the setting that has led me to react a little bit to this, and I would like to give a little explanation of vote on what we in the Workers' Party think: ‘However, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, supports the proposer in the need to take new measures to achieve the objective set by the Stortinget’. When the government parties are not involved, I'm a little worried. Because if this means that a strategy is to be out of action, we will at least inform the Labour Party that this is not the reason why we will be able to attach this proposal to the Minutes in this round. We believe that a strategy needs to include a number of new measures, so that we can achieve a certain degree of achievement — and perhaps a little less work for the country’s national auditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1323	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1692	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1702	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e1711	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new proposition that meets the requirements of the Constitution’. The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2246	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2256	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2268	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2387	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for the introduction of fishing licences for foreign tourists, where revenue is to be used for the control of fishing.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme whereby foreign tourists can only take fish out of the country if they have been fished in cooperation with a registered tourist fishing company, so as to limit exports that do not provide value creation in the communities and gain stronger control of the amount of fish taken up.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to give municipalities the right to manage professional tourist fishing, in order to ensure good management based on local knowledge.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2426	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2431	SV asks that proposals no. 1 and 2 first, so that we can provide subsidiary support for proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2436	The first thing to vote on is proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Troffe fishing shall be included within the limits of the amount of fish that can be taken out of the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to settle the export requirement when the number of kilograms is to be applied per year’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2458	There is then a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up conversion rules so that the number of kilograms is calculated in round fish. The government is asking to return to the Stortinge in connection with the travel life announcement.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced support for the proposal, and the Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2505	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-11, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the arrangements for agricultural operations to ensure increased conversion and production of organic food, including increased production subsidies for organic farming including increased bulkage supplements, as well as a substantial increase in the development funds for organic farming.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that at least 15 pst. the consumption of food in the public sector is organic during 2017 and at least 30 pst. by 2020, and present a plan for this in the forthcoming farm growth message.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the proportion of funds allocated to research into the agricultural development fund to be devoted to research related to organic farming and earmarked for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive education offer in organic farming to be given to more educational institutions than at present and to increase the share of current agronomic training aimed at organic farming.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the focus on generic marketing and information measures based on skills in organic food, production and consumption.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2555	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in the forthcoming farm growth report to present a strategy on which measures it will implement to comply with the size decision of at least 15 pst. organic production and consumption, and a timetable of responsibilities for implementation.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2572	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2577	SV will support proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2582	That is the first time that proposal No has been voted on. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The big picture asks the government in the revised 2017 national budget to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how the removal of VAT on organic food can contribute to increased turnover and profits for producers.’ The Socialist Left will therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2599	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8-11, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the control fee for organic production and labelling of organic agricultural products from 2017 onwards.’; Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility to impose a requirement that the margins taken at the organic goods store are not higher than the margins of the corresponding conventional goods.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of a compensation for economic losses in conversion to organic farming at least equal to the level of the conversion premium.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the industry, is asked to assess how animal welfare and the environmental standard for organic farming can be further developed as an agricultural spearhead.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-08.ana.ud34e2651	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
