ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e61	Two permit applications are available: by Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Thursday 31 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Rannveig Kvifte AndresenFor South-Trøndelag County: Audun Otterstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e96	Rannveig Kvifte Andresen and Audun Otterstad are present and will take the seat. The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e101	On behalf of the big business representatives Else-May Botten, Odd Omland, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure broadband telecommunications in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e106	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e122	The draft Constitution that we are starting with today, which is on the table today, is one of the last proposals that was made in the context of the general constitutional modernisation of the 200th anniversary. As you will remember, this modernisation of the Constitution has been given three main expressions. First of all, there has been a linguistic renewal on the transition to a more linguistic, yet contemporary, bookkeeping and new Norwegian. Secondly, there has been a textual editing and transposition of human rights that was already part of the Constitution, as well as the basic principles that Norway had already committed itself to through international conventions. As the third element, I would like to mention the entry into the Basic Law of what was previously based on a solid constitutional practice, but without direct reference, for example. the competence of the Supreme Court to review the constitutionality of ordinary laws. Today's proposal for a new § 115 concerns some of the points three of this modernisation round we have had. I can also remind you that the report of the Committee on Human Rights has provided the basis for the proposals put forward by a number of representatives of big business. The review tone of the work has marked the mandate of the selection body, which also stated that it would be ‘based on the Norwegian Constitution’, and that today’s Constitution would ‘be indicative of the scope of the text, its design’. In the case of § 115, it can be said here that the answer went a little further than the task, as the proposal for a new § 115 implies a fundamental law fixing a general limitation home by the Constitution itself. It's an innovation, and a majority of the committee believes that this has not been a lucky innovation. The majority behind this position today are all members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, with the exception of the representatives of the Workers' Party. The majority, which also represents all parties other than the Workers' Party, advises the Storting not to base a general rule of exception from the Basic Law. I believe that the minority – the Labour Party – will explain its views, and that the other representatives behind the majority will explain their own comments. But it is my particular impression, after working on the matter in the committee, that the proposal is rejected for three main reasons in particular. Firstly, the introduction of an interpretative principle of basic law which, in its practical application, would weaken the wording of other basic laws to what might prove to be a more indefinite core of the good or the right that the provision has just been set to protect. The practical consequence is that by ordinary law one could imagine that it was cut into the scope of the Constitutional Law in a different way from today. It should be unnecessary to say that it means a weakening of the Constitution as an idea. Secondly, once the Constitution is also established as a protection of individual rights and, in a slightly wider context, a protection of civil society from state overpowering, this becomes a very important issue. And thirdly, the law has also established a distinction between so-called strong and weak constitutions. What I'm thinking about is that some paragraphs enjoy the privilege of not exposing them to this extended interpretation principle contained in the proposal in Section 115. Of course, one can rejoice that §§ 93, 94, 95, 99 first paragraph and § 105 as well as § 97 concerning punishment – I do not go into these provisions in detail – enjoys an extended protection by not applying these paragraphs to the cutting clause. But then you can turn it around and see which paragraphs it is now that might get a weakened position. It can then be remembered that it may be § 100, on freedom of expression, § 101, on freedom of assembly and association, and § 102, on the right to privacy and privacy – i.e. not completely immaterial provisions. There is no doubt — of course not the members of the Committee — that the Constitution does not provide all the answers by direct reading of the provisions. It's always like that with a legal text. A legal text must be read with the limitations of the ordinary legal method, which relate to the legal substance and where one is aware of the context in which the individual provision is related to the legal system. The reason for this is that not all issues relating to a theme can be addressed exhaustively in the language of each paragraph. Ordinary interpretation of the text, including a restrictive interpretation of the legal text of the Constitution, will take place – as it has always done – either § 115 is adopted or not. It is in the nature of the legal rules, whether laid down by the Commission, by law or by constitution, that, in certain cases, it is necessary to limit the scope of the relevant counter-respects. The interpretation is not linked to the personal views of individual law-applicants, but is bound by generally accepted methodological requirements, primarily harmonised interpretation. If, by common interpretation, a judge finds that a rule which he derives from the Basic Law is contrary to the rule derived from normal law or regulation, then there is a conflict. Then the conflict is resolved by the primacy of the Constitution, and the law, regulation or administrative decision has to give way. The problem with § 115 is that it can lead to the opposite result, that ordinary law or regulation attacks the scope covered by natural linguistic understanding of the text, in addition to that resulting from common interpretation principles. In the conflict of rules between the Constitution and the ordinary law or regulation, the Constitution is made the Losing Party, unless you throw the entire Constitutional Law overboard and you don't want to keep a so-called appropriate core. If I were to sum up the scepticism against § 115 in one argument, one might say that there is a restriction rule that you want to introduce with constitutional order. It will be like a Trojan horse. It may, under certain circumstances, undermine the function of the Basic Law as a lex superior from the inside. Some people have claimed – and we will probably hear a little more about it later in the debate – that § 115 can prevent legal activism. I disagree. In my opinion, there are other trends that threaten the Constitution. It is that fundamental laws that specifically protect the individual are blended with and diluted by the everyday laws of sectoral policy, often with very open, value-added or unclear terms left to an army of legal users in administration and courts. Here the germ lies of greater inequality, greater arbitrariness and in and of itself also greater influence over people's everyday lives than what we want from a democratic point of view. In the case of the constitutional provision, the courts will not be the problem and, at the very least, the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court itself is bound by the principles of law and justice and also by its own precedents. The Supreme Court itself has developed widely accepted lessons that say something about the threshold of the courts to intervene and review legal provisions against the Constitution. I am thinking here of the so-called third-part doctrine, which was first expressed in the Klöfta judgment, Legal Journal 1976, page 1, which states that the intensity of judicial review in the case of constitutionality could vary. Checks will be particularly strong when it comes to rules that protect the freedom and security of individuals, and the courts will be extremely restrained when it comes to checking the rules governing the functioning of the state powers, because it is considered that the state powers themselves can be found out. In some sort of intermediate position comes the regulation of economic life. The rights provisions of the Basic Law are highly discretionary. Some of the paragraphs confer specific rights, while others primarily define matters for which it is the responsibility of the State authorities. The last category of provisions gives legislators much greater scope for action, and this is more important to say that private rights have been violated. The protection of rights is shorter, and as long as the rights are not restricted, there is no point in talking about restrictions. Therefore, for these provisions, restrictions will be raised much less frequently. The details of the rights will depend on the supplementary legislation of the Storting in each area. In this respect, the majority of the Committee, including in the comments, would have emphasised that the constitutional changes in spring 2014 were not aimed at any change in function from elected members of the public to lawyers, but that the intention was to enter, so-called codify, rights already in force as part of Norwegian law. In the Norwegian legal tradition, a clear line goes back to the plenary ruling of the Supreme Court in the Klöfta judgment, which requires the courts, when assessing the constitutionality of a law, to attach considerable importance to Storting’s own view on this issue. Among these, as a general rule, the courts must respect the expressed opinions of the elected representatives on the general considerations which may entail restrictions on the rights, and pay particular attention to the way in which the Storting has realised its intentions and whether the overall outcome is compatible with the Constitution. This is an important element of the Norwegian test tradition, which is also found in countries with which it is natural to compare and which still have to apply following the changes to the Constitution in 2014. According to the new Section 92, the authorities of the State must respect and safeguard human rights and, in fulfilling this obligation, both the legislative and the executive powers will still be able to legitimately take a view of the boundaries of the Constitution which the courts must attach to. In this demarcation, the courts must be aware not only of the constitutional distribution of power between legislative, executive and judicial powers, but also be aware of and work on the legal issues which the Court is most appropriate to assess, and, on the other hand, leave political priorities to elected bodies, who must also take their decisions on the basis of professional expertise and the procedural requirements of investigation regulations etc. The summarizing conclusion is that this majority, made up of the members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party, has therefore become committed to the fact that the Constitution has so far been well established without a general rule of restriction, but that, in this majority's view, an intended quality requirement is also laid down in the design of fundamental laws, namely that it should be seriously intended for follow-up, and that they should be respected. The majority will also point to the benefit of avoiding the addition of an explicit policy assessment theme to the Court, as we believe that § 115 can evolve into such a wording. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left will not, on this basis, advise the Stortingen to approve the draft Constitution IX, proposal for a new Section 115 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e156	This proposal really has a misleading title. This is not a proposal to limit human rights, but to regulate their scope and conditions, in particular against each other. Because it's not an option that this won't happen. It has happened, it happens, and it will happen. The question is how it should be done and who should lay down the framework and the conditions for it. One of the purposes of the constitutional audit work that we had last year was to update the Constitution so that it reflects the statehood of Norway and how we govern this country. Giving the impression that there are no demarcations and weightings between human rights and ordinary law is directly misleading. To say no to a proposal is also to give a message, and that message would be wrong. I am for reality to reflect the values and intentions of the Constitution, but then the Constitution must also meet reality. If not, it will lose legitimacy, and no one is interested in it. The alternative to adopting the paragraph as proposed is that it is only up to the Supreme Court, not the elected assembly, to determine which rights can be set up against each other, and how. The Constitution is the law of the people, and the Workers' Party therefore believes that through its representatives in the Grand Duchy, the people should set up these barriers, not the Supreme Court alone. The paragraph is primarily a guideline for the courts in the interpretation of the rights provisions of the Basic Law in the light of the law of the Storting and is in no way, as it is prejudiced, a ticket to the law into discretionary political judgements. I don't think they want that ticket either. If, on the other hand, the human rights catalogue is left without § 115, the Supreme Court will be forced to do so. They've already been, and I'm going to come back to it. Paragraph 115 binds the courts when they have to assess laws against the boundaries of the Constitution. The size regulates areas falling under constitutional rights. However, the paragraph regulates the conditions and extent to which the Storing may intervene in the rights of fundamental law: the Storing must respect the core of the fundamental rights, the limitation must be proportionate and necessary in order to safeguard the overriding public interest or the human rights of others. That is what is in the proposal. The alternative to adopting it is to continue to limit via the Supreme Court without any guidelines. Paragraph 115 also states that the Storting cannot invalidate the rights of the Constitution by interpreting them more narrowly than the purpose, and the wording suggests that requiring a restriction must respect the core of the rights. The alternative, i.e. not to adopt the paragraph, is that it is not clear that all restrictions must respect the core of fundamental rights, that the restriction must be proportionate and necessary to safeguard the overriding public interest or the human rights of others. So then there will continue to be a constraint that there is no sense in pretending that is not going on, without the requirement to respect neither human rights nor necessity. It's going well now, but it can cost a lot of money to meet a Supreme Court or a big deal that doesn't take this task seriously. The Supreme Court is in no way a contrast to the People's Government. On the contrary, democratic rule of the people depends on an active Supreme Court. But it, and the Constitution, cannot be completely left to itself. This is, as I mentioned at the beginning, not a restriction helmet, the restriction is going on. Paragraph 115 can actually be called a balancing mechanism. It provides both the courts and the Grand Duchy which legislate a completely necessary mechanism to balance the needs of the Grand Duchy for social regulation through legislation with the legal state's demands for the protection of constitutional individual rights. In this way, § 115 is a purely operationalisation of the purpose provision in the second sentence of the Basic Law: ‘This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ This paragraph has not come out of nothing. It is proposed by the Human Rights Committee, led by Inge Wohnung, just as a premise for the way in which all the changes in the human rights directory are formulated: as absolute. Even the short story after their adoption has shown that it cannot be without the need for interpretation. Let me take Section 106 as an example. That paragraph gives everyone with legal residence the right to move freely within their borders and to choose their place of residence in Norway. That's what I and the Workers' Party are for. But in the absolute sense, this could mean that you cannot set up a restraining order, prevent the movement of private property, or allow the public to regulate areas intended, for example. dwellings. This should be in line with the Storting's intention. We are not going on the broad rhetorical road, but there is reason to ask whether the majority does not agree with this, and how, in that case, a ban on visits or the law on foreigners is taken into account. The Labour Party agrees with the Human Rights Committee’s proposal to move to the model used by the EMC and other Treaties, which involves an assessment in two paragraphs, where the first question is the extent to which a given right reaches, and other questions are the extent to which the national legislator has access to make modifications or exceptions. So you might ask, what is ‘heavy public interest’? It is primarily a political issue, which is the responsibility of the Stortinget as legislator and which should not be subject to review by the courts. In other words, the review by the courts under § 115 must be limited to an assessment of the proportionality and necessity of the means used to achieve such general interests. The Labour Party assumes that, with its review, the courts will place considerable emphasis on what is the legislator's assessment of proportionality and necessity, and only set aside laws and other decisions on this basis, where it appears clear that this assessment leads to a non-constitutional outcome. It's a simple assumption to have, because they already do. The working party believes that it is important to find a paragraph formulation The size can be reassembled. The Supreme Court case-law practice following the constitutional audit in 2014 illustrates the need for a restrictionist. For already in three judges since the fundamental law revision in 2014, the Supreme Court has established criteria similar to those set out in Section 115 in the interpretation of the new rights provisions of the Basic Law. Already in the Supreme Court judgment of 24 November 2014, incorporated in Rt. OJ L 347, 1105, paragraph 28, in connection with the interpretation of Paragraph 102 of the Code of Conduct of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and I quote: ‘where a law which intervenes in private and family life, home, communication or personal integrity is compatible with Section 102, also depends on whether the law pursues a legitimate purpose and is proportionate.’; The same is true in the Supreme Court judgment of 29 January 2015. There, the Supreme Court explicitly addressed the question of a restriction on the new rights provisions of the Constitution. In practice, therefore, the Supreme Court has interpreted the limitation criteria from the proposal for a new § 115 into § 102. The judgments in place clearly point to the fact that this will continue with the Supreme Court, that they will do the same for the other rights provisions of the Constitution. The size must be kept up to date and ensure that the new rights provisions can operate according to their purpose. When a paragraph is actually practiced, it has to be adopted, it has to be laid down. This is not done by the Supreme Court in order to assume political influence, on the contrary, it is necessary to respect the intention of the Grand Duchy and the Constitution. I warn here and now that if the proposed proposal were to fall, the Workers' Party would promote a new proposal for a new § 115. It shall be replaced by the following: ‘Any limitation of rights in this Constitution must be provided for by law, be proportionate and respect the core of the rights. In no case may such limitations be made in Section 16, first sentence, 93, 94, 95, 96, 100 fourth paragraph, first sentence and Section 105. Correspondingly, Section 97 applies in the case of a question of punishment.’ The wording of the paragraph is somewhat slimmer than that currently available, but takes up the same intention: it provides the courts and legislates a completely necessary interface to balance the need for social regulation of the Great Britain through legislation with the rule of law requirements for the protection of certain fundamental rights. The access to make limitations on the rights referred to in the Basic Law § 115 will depend on several criteria, all of which are formulated as cumulative. It must be provided for by law, it must respect the core of the rights, and it must be proportionate and necessary in order to safeguard the overriding public interest or the human rights of others. This means that only the Stortinget as a legislative authority can make a derogation from the Constitution. The situation is now, it's not formulated anywhere. Following the above-mentioned Supreme Court judgments, it is still uncertain how far and in what areas the Grand Duchy can make restrictions on the rights of the Constitution. The proposal for Section 115 clarifies that some rights in the Constitution are absolute and cannot be restricted by law. The abovementioned judgments do not provide any equivalent. This ambiguity in the scope of the Basic Law is important to clarify, and this should be done by means of a Constitutional Decision. It is the responsibility of the Grand Duchy as the founding legislator to define key criteria for the impact and scope of the Constitution. This is also about the fact that, as the founding power, the Storting is involved in drawing up the boundary between the legitimate control activities of the courts and the political space of the Storting. This limit is too important for the courts to be alone in withdrawing it. When the Stortinge adopts a special limitation home in the Constitution, the Stortinge could in future also have an opinion on how the courts practice it. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, writes: ‘Since most of the rights are discretionary, the majority will be able to consider a situation where there is no law of the Stortinge but, ultimately, the Supreme Court that determines the extent of the right.’ I can also imagine that situation, because that is the situation we are in today. It's the reality without § 115. It will change the Workers' Party, so that it is the elected assembly and not the Supreme Court that defines the scope of the rights. I refer to the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e225	The representative Jette F. Christensen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e228	This proposal states that by law, adopted by a general majority, the Grand Duchy may set aside the Constitution as long as the law respects the core of the rights enshrined in the Constitution. The proposal that the Storting may override the Basic Law was proposed as part of human rights in order to make it easier to limit the scope of the rights. Given that only the most central human rights rights were adopted in 2014, the need for a general restriction rule has become significantly less. All the economic, social and cultural rights, the so-called ESC rights, which the Human Rights Committee proposed, but as Carl I. Hagen opposed, was voted down in the Stortinget. This included the right to education, the right to social protection, the right to a satisfactory standard of living and health, the right to cultural identity, etc. The right to asylum was promoted as a separate proposal in Document 12:14 for 2011–2012, which was voted down in Stortinget as its own case. The rights adopted, such as: the protection against deprivation of liberty, the right to fair trial and independent courts, the presumption of innocence, the protection against double criminality, privacy, etc., hardly need a general restriction rule. In principle, any limitation of the statutory rights should be derived from the provisions themselves and not from the fact that, by law, adopted by a general majority, the Grand Duchy overrides the Basic Law. For example, Section 97 of the Constitution states that no law must be given retroactive effect. This provision has been interpreted in a restrictive way, so that the prohibition against replication applies only to laws which act to the detriment of the person concerned. As an example of this, Section 97 of the Basic Law did not prevent the replacement rules from being changed after Utøya-tradienst, so that the victims could receive higher compensation. In other words, this could be done retrospectively, as it was in favour of them. During the hearing of the Monitoring Committee on Human Rights, it became clear that the proposal would allow for derogations in all provisions and not only those relating to human rights. There is therefore little doubt that a general restriction rule opens up to a weakening of the constitutional protection we have today. It has also been argued that a new § 115 could limit or alter decisions made by, for example: European Court of Human Rights, EMD, Strasbourg. This isn't right. In the Santa Claus case, which was up in the Supreme Court in 2007, the High Court found that an extension of the party relationship under the same conditions under the Law on Landings was not contrary to the Basic Law § 97 that no law should be given retroactive effect or be contrary to the Basic Law § 105 on full compensation in the event of expropriation. However, on 12 June 2012, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that § 33 of the Law on Santa Claus was contrary to the EMD’s requirement for ‘fair balance’. If the Ministry of Justice had promoted a new law that gave the parties the right to extend the party contract under the same conditions as the previous one, the EMD would obviously have set the law aside once again. If § 115 had been adopted at this time, this would have no effect on the outcome. For example: new police methods, the second paragraph of Section 102 of the Basic Law already opens up for monitoring by, as stated in Section 102: ‘Political proceedings shall not take place, except in criminal cases.’ Here the legislator himself has explicitly stated that interference with persons suspected of criminal offences can take place. According to long-term case-law, it is clear that intervention can be undertaken, but that there is a general restriction on the proportionality of unlawful and factually justified interference with the rights and freedoms set out in the Basic Law’s human rights provision. Reference is made to Justice 2014, page 1105, section 28, and it is explicitly elaborated in Legal 2015, page 93, section 60, where, according to § 102, there must be a balance between the protected individual interests on the one hand and the legitimate social needs justifying the action, on the other hand. The question of how far you can go and which method you can use becomes an interpretation issue that the Storting has to decide on. Whether or not such a restrictive rule is adopted, it is the courts which ultimately review the limitation provisions adopted by the Storting. If the right of restriction goes too far, the law will be set aside. This has been the scheme for 200 years and will not be amended by the adoption of such a provision. It is likely that the Supreme Court will be careful to reject clear provisions which the Grand Duchy openly expresses is a restriction on the protection of fundamental law. For example, the shipping tax case, set out in the 2010 Legal Review, page 143, would have another outcome. In the 1990s, the shipping industry raised significant tax credits that did not come to tax until they took out the money from the scheme or chose to wind it up. Since the new tax regime, which actually provides for full tax exemptions for shipping companies, was adopted in 2007, the old tax credits had to be liquidated. The majority then decided that these should be taxed in 2007. The shipping companies considered that this actually meant taxing with retroactive effect. The case was decided by a limited majority in the Supreme Court – six against five votes – in the favour of the shipping companies. If the case had arisen after this restriction rule had been adopted, the case would have another outcome, because the ban on the return of § 97 is absolute in the field of criminal law, i.e. within the core of the provision, while in the field of tax law it is outside. Here you can easily approve laws that have retroactive effect. For example, it is accepted that at the end of the year the Storting changes tax rules with effect for the whole year. On the above basis, the Progress Party opposes the proposal to legislate on the limitations of the fundamental rights and does not endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e265	In this case, there have been differing views among the hearing bodies and in other debates. The Committee has spent a great deal of time on the matter. Different considerations have been weighed against each other, and there has been a thorough debate on the need and necessity for the change proposed. The Christian People's Party has concluded that we do not support the proposal for a new § 115 of the Constitution, and I have to explain this in more detail. The Wage Committee considered that restrictions on the rights had to be laid down by the Constitution and not only by the practice of the courts over time. We understand the intentions behind the Wage Committee's recommendation on a general restriction rule. The Constitution currently has no uniform approach to restrictions on the fundamental rights. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution, however, provides that freedom of expression may be restricted. This is the only provision of the Basic Law which provides for such a limitation of the rights. Restrictions take place primarily through the activities of the administration and the courts over time. As the Human Rights Committee has pointed out, a limitation group in the Constitution can help to make this practice visible. In that case, it would have to be considered whether or not restrictions relating to each paragraph, each right, or whether a general provision applicable to the whole of the Basic Law would be formulated and would apply to several of the provisions of the Basic Law. From the Christian People's Party we see that the natural here would be a general formulation. However, we are left with the question of whether such a permit is necessary and whether it is desirable from the practice that has been incorporated and that has evolved – and developed over time. The Constitution has now been subject to extensive renewal and revision. The Christian People's Party has promoted and supported a number of the new formulations. We have done this to strengthen the status of the Constitution and to adapt the Constitution to new times. Although it is not so visible in everyday life, the Constitution has real practical significance for everyone who is in and living in our country. Revision and renewal were necessary. We change to preserve – to use a well-known and well-conservative expression. In our work on the Constitution, we should have as a guiding principle that the document should have relatively concise and clear wording. These formulations lie as a foundation for our society and express key principles. The view of the Christian People's Party on the Constitution is clearly enshrined in a tradition in which there should be clear and consistent fundamental principles, which should give the Constitution the absolute mark of being governed by ordinary law. A new rule of exception, on the other hand, as proposed in new § 115, can, in the ultimate sense, help to give the Constitution a relativistic character. I am not going to say here that the proposal under consideration here today would necessarily help to weaken the Authority of the Constitution if it had been adopted. It'll be to draw it too far. But based on an overall assessment, based on our view of the function and role of the Constitution itself, and on the relationship between the Constitution and the judiciary and the practices that have evolved over time, the Christian People's Party has concluded that there is no need or need for a new § 115, as proposed. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's thorough examination of the majority's views.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e282	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review and a thorough attitude, and, as the vote shows, there is a broad consensus in the committee, with the exception of the Labour Party, in the matter. For the Central Party, the Constitution is the foundation of our democracy, and any constitutional change requires thorough preparatory work, and we have special, comprehensive demands for the process of enlargement. This debate concerns the proposal for a new § 115 of the Basic Law on restrictions on the fundamental rights. This amendment is part of the proposal in Documents 16 for 2011-2012, where there was a cross-political group, including the undersigned, that wanted to provide the Storting with the widest possible assessment basis for the next period. In the setting, it says in particular: ‘It has been acknowledged that not all proposers are behind all paragraphs and/or alternatives.’ The experience gained in dealing with previous constitutional proposals that I have been involved in, and today's draft law reading, in my opinion, calls for the Stortinget to go through more seriously how a promoter and argues in the case of constitutional proposals – i.e. that representatives and parties are behind the proposals when they are put forward and will work to have them adopted in the forthcoming enlargement, and that the voters will then take this into account in their vote in elections. That is what is at the heart of the specific, comprehensive treatment demands that we have for constitutional changes. It's a position that I hope more people could discuss, because I think it's recently developed a culture where there's a little too much vulnerability – to use such a strong expression – with regard to what's being promoted, and what happens to the proposal when it comes to its hall. This should be more serious, and there should be greater clarification from individual batches as to whether or not they are behind the proposals, when one goes to the Grand Prix elections. The central party's principal view is that the Constitution should have as many concise and precise legal paragraphs as possible. The text of the law shall as clearly as possible have a division of responsibilities where the role of the Storting versus the role of the courts is clear. The centre party thus voted against § 89 of today in respect of the right to test, which reads: ‘In cases before the courts, the courts shall have the right and the obligation to review whether laws, regulations or other decisions of the authorities of the State are contrary to the Constitution.’ When we in the Central Party voted against the Constitutional Court, it was because it could over time give the courts a departure point over time, in order to give the courts more power – i.e. a move in a direction previously referred to as the official state, which in the Central Party we have a clear historical and ideological tradition that we do not want back. The free movement of capital must otherwise be valued in relation to the understanding of, inter alia: international conventions. The centre party will therefore work towards an unnecessary restriction of the freedom of action of the Storting. This includes, inter alia: important for today's refugee debate. A refugee is entitled to asylum as an emergency aid, but cannot require permanent residence in a new country, at our discretion. Otherwise, concretely to the proposal for a new § 115: A general rule of restriction of the Constitutional Law is an innovation, as the Eidsvollsbasis Act did not include a rule on the right to derogate from the rules, nor a rule on the right to derogate from the Basic Law, nor a rule on constitutional emergency law. The limitation rule in the proposed § 115 gives the Constitution an unintended relativistic character and weakens the rights of citizens where the Basic Law's idea is to give them constitutional protection. § 115 may also have an effect on other constitutional guarantees, and several of which have been subject to: earlier constitutional provisions. The Constitution has so far worked out without a general rule of restriction. There is a right to be a quality requirement, an unintended quality requirement, so that the design of the basic legislation is of such quality that only one should adopt rights which are, in fact, considered to be linked to the subsequent accumulation. It is a highly political assessment theme which, through the adoption of Section 115, can then be transferred to the courts. On this basis, the Central Party will vote against the amendment proposed here by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e310	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Michael Tetzschner, for an excellent contribution and not least for a good work on the matter. I mainly agree with – if not the whole – the article that the case rapporteur made. I've said it from here before, and I say it again, it's important to say it: I love the Constitution. It sounds a little strange to say, but I think there are a lot of people who have studied candy, who share that feeling. I see that the Minister of Justice smiles, I think maybe he recognizes this -- that when you start studying the Constitution, you get a little in love with the Constitution, you start digging into the Constitution. As I said, it happens to many justudents. Now we were a little bit concerned that there has been a little mixed work in terms of the Constitutional Work, and not everything has been just as fine. The process around e.g. You might say that the change in language wasn't the best. I also characterized that, that kind of horse trade to make it not the best way to change the language. The story knows, I also said it from the pulpit, that I wasn't in favour of language change that time and fought against it, but I voted in favour of it anyway, because you shouldn't stand outside when the loving Constitution was first to be changed. So it has to be said that there are some things that have happened around the Constitution, that do not serve the Basic Law for honor, and here we can all have an improvement potential. Then it's a little surprising for me to hear the scepticism that is among some representatives and parties in the case of the Supreme Court and the Court's right to test, which has been valid all along. First, there was skepticism when you were going to codify this, so bring this into the Constitution into a language theme. They talked about creating a modern constitution that was supposed to be accessible to people, people should understand, etc., and then it was a little hard to understand that you wouldn't immediately write this into the Constitution. Then there's also a bit of an exaggerated fear of what the Supreme Court might think of if we don't create such a § 115, which is a general access, a general access that actually violates the whole concept that the Constitution is supposed to be. As I said, there is a great deal to do in order to adopt a constitutional provision, and it is for good reason that there is also a lot to do to change the Constitution – both the intermediate elections and the qualified majority – and that is because the Constitution is the main legal basis. The proposed Section 115 states that any limitation of the rights of this Constitution should be possible by law as long as it is proportionate and necessary in order to safeguard the overriding public interest. I would assume that those who promote Document 8 here believe that it is proportionate and necessary to promote these proposals and that we adopt them. I would assume that the majority that adopts it would believe that there are general interests that speak for the fact that we are adopting those provisions. That by a simple majority one should be able to erode the Constitution, which is to be lex superior, should be the pillar of democracy, is something new. Nor does it stand up to what the mariners and their tradition stood for, because this proposal on § 115 is an innovation that was not valid when the mariners stood and snow-creeded the Constitution. So it breaks with the whole tradition. That's also something that we in the majority refer to. The Norwegian Constitution has proved to be historically very durable. This is because there are short and clear formulations related to the main principles and that it has been possible to provide legal space for both interpretation and completion without the essential principles being out of sight. We have to hold on to that. The majority may understand that there is, of course, a need to be able to make limitations. Everyone means that. There is no one here who believes that you should not be able to make limitations, because that is already done today. The representative Jette Christensen also thought about it: you already do it. Although one can understand that one would like to have such a general provision, the majority are fortunately opposed to this – all parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party. That's because we make such an exception rule, you give the Constitution an unintended relativistic expression. You can't help elevating the principle that the Constitution is lex superior. Nor can it be excluded in terms of content that a general exemption provision could weaken citizens' rights, where the basic law's idea is to provide them with constitutional protection. The fact is that the Constitution has so far been successful without such a general restriction, and it is intended that there should be quality requirements when proposing new constitutional provisions. They must be thoughtful when they are promoted, and they must be thoughtful when they are adopted. And once they have been adopted, there should be no major restrictions on the constitutional provisions by simple law. It will hollow out the whole point of having a lesson superior, having a foundation law. Then I have noted that the members of the Workers' Party believe that we must have Section 115, and that it is the proposed one that represents a final clarification of the extent to which the protection of rights actually reaches, and they believe that this will result in such a clean-up, better predictability and a significant legal improvement. But as I said, that's not necessary, because the way to do it already exists in the system. In addition, the desire to allow, as it says, a legislative technique in which the administration may have delegated power to derogate from the wording of the Constitutional Law only has a clear basis for it, is very far from what the Constitutional Law is – a basic law which states that bearer principles should be enshrined in the Constitution and should apply at all times and not be diluted by ordinary law. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population clearly states that the kind of holes in the Constitution we are not going to give any room and opening for. It really surprises me that the Labour Party, as the largest wholesaler, will be able to incorporate the kind of basic law into the Constitution that, through general legislation, by a simple majority on the Stortinget, important principles are to be eroded by the Constitution. Therefore, I am pleased that the Storting in the previous session rejected the derogation clause and voted it down, even though the Workers' Party also fought for it, without explaining who would have the authority there. There was no answer to who would take that decision by derogation, whether it was the government by decision, whether it would be a simple decision in a party's office, or whether it would be in the storeroom. Similarly, I am very pleased that the Storting is not going to adopt such a general exception that we do not need, because we already have a well-functioning system. Some people have a scepticism about what the Supreme Court might think about. There's really no reason to be so very afraid of it. We have a well-functioning democracy based on the principle of the distribution of power, and the right of trial of the courts has been in force, not from the dawn of time, but for a long, long time, and works very well. So I'm very happy that § 115 with that is not going to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e333	Thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Tetzschner, for both good work in the proceedings and for a very informative statement, but also to Mr Jette F. Christensen of the Workers' Party for a good review of the fundamental arguments for the proposal. We have a considerable sense of that idea too, but the Green Party is therefore behind the majority in this case because we believe that it is not wise for the Storting to adopt the proposed derogation – as it exists – for the fundamental rights. But this has not been a clear conclusion for us, and we have therefore included some of our own comments in the handling of this matter. For the Greens too, it is obvious that human rights cannot be counted as absolute. As the Human Rights Committee itself points out, different rights in specific cases are often contradictory, and they must give way to each other. This is well explained by the majority of the members of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. An example is that freedom of expression can be limited if, for example, an opinion is expressed. identify weaknesses in the defence of the country. Other examples are that privacy can be limited in order to solve crime, or that someone’s freedom of movement is restricted, for example: by being put in prison. In addition, the rights referred to here are among the economic, social and cultural rights normally implemented by political decisions. It costs money. There is a strong consensus that the exact implementation of such rights has been left to the Storting and the changing political majority. The fact that the rights as they are now formulated must be assessed against each other and, in some cases, limited is evident. An argument for inclusion of an exception provision is that it is fundamentally unfortunate if the Constitution gives a different impression of the real rights and limitations of the inhabitants than is actually the case. It is an important objective that the Constitution is as understandable and as accessible to the population as possible, and that is also one of the reasons why the Greens voted wholeheartedly for a new version of the Constitution in the 2014 anniversary. We in the Greens therefore share the intention that the scope of rights must be clearly drawn up in the Constitutional Text in order to ensure that the Constitution is an effective barrier to abuse of authority. We believe, however, that we do not achieve this in a proper way with the proposal for an emergency shelter that we have now been given the opportunity to decide on. In order to go a little further: in the derogation proposed, several conditions have been laid down for the non-application of fundamental human rights. The first condition is that the restriction must be laid down by law, and that means that a provision on exemption from human rights cannot in itself legitimize restrictions on the rights. So there have to be laws that say concretely when the constraint takes place, and it can be, for example, are the criminal law and laws applicable when Norway is at war. The second condition is that restrictions must respect the core of the rights. The committee writes that this will be in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, and under the European Convention on Human Rights, a group of rights can be waived as long as it takes place under conditions similar to those of the proposal for a derogation, which we are now debating. The precision in this condition is important. It underlines that it is when the limitations result from the philosophical basis of human rights, that one can limit human rights, and it follows the principle that my rights end where yours begins. At the same time, we have also noticed that the Norwegian wording is criticised for not being enough of the European. The last two conditions set out in the proposal are that the limitations of a right must be proportionate and necessary to safeguard the overriding public interest or the human rights of others. So it's not enough that the constraint respects the core of the rights, they also have to be proportionate, and here one has to use interpretation. This means that there can be no less invasive measures that should have been implemented instead, and it means that the benefits of the intervention must be clearly greater than the disadvantages. When mention is made of both the public interest and the human rights of others, it can be interpreted as examples, but this opens up too much interpretation. It would be strange if a restriction could be proportionate if a human right was restricted to the benefit of a freedom which is not a human right. In summary, the Greens consider it problematic to include a provision that human rights should be waived when the conditions mentioned are not sufficiently precise. The terms of the first subparagraph are partly overlapping, and it is unclear to us what is included in the term ‘heavy public interest’. For example, the impression may be that the Storting may adopt exemptions from the rights of a person or group when a political majority considers this to be the case. Furthermore, the second subparagraph is no longer voting, for which the rights to which the exemption helmet shall never apply are listed. The proposal for a new section 99 on the right to freedom of religion etc. was not adopted by Stortinget’s proceedings in the spring of 2014, and the relationship to the already existing limitation in Section 100 on freedom of expression has not yet been addressed. However, it is important for the Greens to stress that we do not exclude that we can at a later stage consider supporting a proposal for a more precise legal basis, which more clearly expresses the limitations of human rights that must exist in a democratic society, and we are also open to assessing concrete restraints relating to each provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e354	I start, of course, by pointing out to the representative Christensen's posts, which I put down 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. Then, before I go to the facts of the matter, I will also join in what the representative Lundtigen said about the seriousness of the various proposals. I don't want to say it relates specifically to what we're talking about in this case, because there were a lot of well-prepared suggestions, through the pay-choice and in other ways, but in general I'll join it. It should be a serious matter to propose constitutional proposals, which have a somewhat different authority from that traditionally held. There are many constitutional proposals that subsequently prove not to have the authority that they should have, including in the respective party groups. So I join that view. Because it was said with pressure from the representative Raja that it was not nice, or that there was a horse trade in connection with the language discussion related to the Basic Law, I would say I disagree with that. There was a professional and political disagreement about it to be done, but to call it horse trade I need to distance myself from, because I don't think that's the basis for saying from the Storting's pulpit. Then I've told you. It is good for Norway and good for Stortinget that there is no disagreement about the Authority and importance of the Constitution in the Norwegian community. It is one of the fundamentals of Norwegian democracy that cross-political questions have never been raised about the Authority and importance of the Constitution for Norwegian society. Even across all party divisions, I feel very confident that everyone believes that this is to be understood as the law of the people, it is the law that aims to uphold citizens' rights against the authorities, that is, against us, and other authorities. That was the background to the very comprehensive and good revision and renewal of the Constitution that we had for approx. a year ago in connection with the anniversary of the Constitution, when the Stortinge adopted a number of paragraphs that just strengthen the position of the individual in relation to the rulers, i.e. all human rights issues. It was time, I'd say, that the Norwegian rise at the time took in human rights issues that until then had not had the necessary constitutional protection. I want to add, without challenging any debate about it now, that it was under quite a considerable political discussion and struggle. It wasn't exactly so that we got these things in place, but we got it in place, and there was a broad consensus about it. It was important and good. So more to the nerves of the current situation that we are discussing here today. There is a line between the discussion we had, at least in my opinion, in connection with the adoption of Section 89 and what we are now discussing. § 89 came into force in good time, I would say, finally, that the Constitution was given an authorisation of what has been the development of Norwegian case law for much more than 100 years – i.e. that the courts have a right and obligation to ensure that what happens is in line with the provisions of the Constitution. There was also a lot of discussion about it, but we've got it in place. It's good that we've done it. So the question comes: how is that authority to understand? I sat in my seat and thought about whether I should use this expression, because it's a serious expression, but far on the way there's a basis for saying that this is about the authority of the Storting and therefore the authority of the elected power, too – besides that we have given this authority to our courts. What this discussion is about today is whether the populace should have an opportunity – with the Constitution in hand – to say that here we have to make certain limitations and not just lean on what the Supreme Court says. I respect and understand the arguments of a large majority in the Storting against this, but I believe that the time is going to mature on this point. It is about safeguarding the ability of the elected power to participate and define what is going to happen, as the representative Christensen so well said. Today we don't have such a law firm. We may – and I might say – do it without such a legal barrier if the situation requires it, but it would be much more right to do it if you have a constitutional rule that gives the Storting such an authority. It rejects the majority, and the president and others who are responsible for the authority of the Storting and the authority of the elected power in the Norwegian community, should think through this very argument. Here the Workers' Party stands surprisingly alone, I would say – surprisingly enough. It is not that we believe that we should be given an opportunity to undermine the Constitution, which lies in the majority's argument, as I hear it from the pulpit now. That's the opposite of it. It is to give the Constitution a provision that allows us to deal with this in such a way that it is legally valid, and that we do not act contrary to the Constitutional Law's intention. So say, among other things. The representative Raja that we don't need that provision, because we have a system that works outside of Storting's hand, in reality. It is a system that works, and it has worked well, because with this development through Norwegian case law and through the practice established by the Supreme Court even after this discussion started in Stortinget, it has begun to establish a legal order here. It's not a problem today, as the representative Christensen said. I don't mean it. The Labour Party doesn't mean it. But when we are now discussing these questions, and the proposals have been promoted, I believe from my point of view that the most tiring and correct thing would be to say that yes, we are going to have such a limitation clause to address the challenges that might have to be met. This is the argument, and I think it is very strong, and it is primarily in the tradition of the Constitution. The basic law is the law that just has to give us guidelines on how to deal with these matters in the future, and that not only will the Supreme Court handle this on its own and establish a practice that they have already done, through the examples to which the representative Christensen referred. Then, of course, we have to accept them, but we don't know what development will be like. If we don't have a constitutional right to go in and look at things in given situations and deal with it as the elected power should do, we are weaker as a popular assembly at the next crossroads. These are the arguments. That's why I wanted to say this. It's completely in line with what the representative Christensen said, but I'm saying it in a different way with my words. At any rate, I wish that – I understand that this is being downgraded – this matures, and that is what is behind the Workers' Party, as Christensen announced, is going to promote this proposal again, because this cannot happen to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e380	I'm not going to spend the time on the 2014 history, on what was exchanged by positions behind language renewal, etc. I'll just say, after hearing the debate today, which fortunately has reached a broad consensus on this innovation: the Storting doesn't want it. What is also gratifying is that the majority’s argument is based on the same reasoning – largely. Now the Workers' Party is not a completely immaterial party. That is why I think they might have to pay a little more attention to explaining to others why they think it is a benefit for our constitutional right to open up something that will in practice be ordinary law aside from constitutional law. Why is that a good idea? When you do not undertake to explain it to the Stortinget, it may also be related to not being so concerned with the Constitution as other than political markings. I must remind you that it is not the case that the Supreme Court exercises a mandate or authority. The Supreme Court and all judges are bound by strict procedural rules which just respect the core of legislative activities. So it's this assembly itself that has an overlaw, a lex superior rule, which means that these principles are not easily shifted by random scaling. It has to be thoughtful, it's a brake mechanism that we're familiar with when it comes to basic laws and proposals. With the Workers' Party's new and highly liberal approach to constitutional law, it is therefore announced from the pulpit that a very simplified constitutional provision is to be introduced, which now really opens the door to equality between ordinary law and basic law. It is also the case – if I understood the representative Christensen correctly – that in laws that are burdensome and take heavy public interest care, where it was also clarified that here the courts had nothing to do with assessing what could be in this, there were a few cumulative conditions to which it should be proportionate, and that should be necessary. If we just complete the necessity requirement, then there is a requirement to consider other and less invasive ways of achieving the same, that is, less intrusive towards the citizens. However, the standard of proportionality must always be assessed on the basis of what is achieved and therefore how burdensome the general interest of the proposal is. The reasons given by the pulpit for what has become the new constitution of the Workers' Party contain violations of fundamental prerequisites for such provisions. In the following, it will be very exciting to follow what a fundamental law view the Workers' Party falls upon. So now they've given in to a real devaluation of the Constitution as an idea and left it to the practical everyday policy. I would like to conclude by reminding you of what the Constitution also means, in addition to that it lays the foundations for the law of the Grand Duchy and the Supreme Court. It is easy on such occasions as this to point to the top of the pyramid, where in all modesty it can be said that the Storting is also one. But then one ignores the fact that the constitution acts every day as a backbone for administrative decisions, as a backbone for regulatory applications, as a background for all the thousands of law enforcement decisions that the administration takes. By weakening the main principles of fundamental law such as lighthouses and transponders, we also weaken the governance impulses that Stortinget has wanted to give downwards – beam downwards – in our diverse administration. It is sometimes forgotten that there are others in Norway who also use the law every day. If the signal now assumes that it's not so dangerous – if you still have better ideas than the Constitutional Consipists had, it's just free. There are only some good reasons why this is legislation that respects the overriding public interest, that they are otherwise proportionate and that they are necessary. I have not made a single proposal behind a common law that does not believe that all these three conditions are met. That is why, in all modesty, we are doing legislative work here on the Stortinget – it is precisely because we believe that we are promoting strong and good public interests, that they are necessary and that they are proportionate. By embarking on the glide flight that Christensen invites us to, we are in the process of weakening the Constitution we celebrated the 200th anniversary of, in such beautiful forms two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e392	I take the floor because I need to meet some claims. I would also point out that in some of the last speeches there has been a caricature of the attitudes and claims of others that are simply not a constitutional debate worthy. I'm shaken, especially when you claim to have the only true constitutional understanding and be its foremost defender. That's weird. I'm busy with the Constitution. The Working Party is a member of the Constitution. We are just as concerned with the Constitution as for example. The Human Rights Committee, led by Inge Wohnung, proposed to introduce a new section 115. Today we have also learned a little about love and love from this pulpit. Love can come in many forms – it can confuse, it can blind. I don't know what love is for you, President, but for me, putting others' needs ahead of their own. Sometimes it's the behavior that leads out of it. When you hear Abid Q. Raja's declaration of love to the Constitution, it's a little strange that that love is not followed by that he wants it the best. I also want to correct the representative, Tetzschner, when he says that in my post I did not explain why I want to introduce a new section 115. I think I was up here for 20 minutes, and I didn't read the weather forecast. I explained why the Labour Party believes that it is important and necessary for the elected assembly to draw up an interface and illustrate in which cases restrictions should occur, how they should occur, and which paragraphs should not be affected by a restriction at all. That's what's happening. When you hear Michael Tetzschner here instead – this happens. The size cannot pretend that interpretations, limitations and weightings do not exist. We in the Workers' Party want the Storting to be involved and influence that weighting. That is why we have proposed a new constitution. If this falls, I look forward to discussing it when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e406	I think Jette F. Christensen was hurt to quote me wrong, because I didn't say she wasn't talking about § 115. Large parts of the article were based on a reference to § 115. But what I just asked questions about, and as there could be an opportunity to elaborate through this line, is: why is it a good idea that you want to open up ordinary law to override basic law? Why does the Labour Party think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e411	The Labour Party believes that it is a good idea to introduce a new § 115, all the time High Court already operates within it. The working party is to introduce a new § 115 because, for example: are for a restraining order, even if we are for all people in Norway to move freely and choose their own place of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e416	These examples show that it would be impossible to legislate restrictions on, for example: freedom of movement is an imaginary problem. The basic law itself presupposes that restrictions can be imposed, for example: The criminal provisions, which are just imposing such restrictions, so there is nothing about today's legal status in the light of the Constitution we now have, which prevents such restrictions, which then result from law and constitution, and that it would be impossible to regulate for housing is an equally sought-after example. But my question is: does the representative of Christensen really think that the reason for now is to plan down the thresholds that the Constitution protects against ordinary law, is that the Supreme Court is breaking the Constitution? Is that what the representative is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e421	No, no, no. But unlike the representative, Tetzschner, I am referring to reality, and the reality is that when they judge today, the Supreme Court uses the wording of the new § 115, and it is necessary because the human rights catalogue is formulated so that all rights are absolute, with the expectation that new § 115 would also be adopted. That's the way the human rights directory is structured. We in the Workers' Party want to follow the Human Rights Committee's proposal and introduce a new section 115, so that this catalogue will be comprehensive and work as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e426	I was just a little uncertain about the piece of love that came up here, because I expressed fundamental love for the Constitution as such. It is possible that I misunderstood the representative, but if I did not agree with the Workers' Party or did the right thing by adopting the provision, it was certainly a little strange love. I don't understand the content of that. It's a very illiberal way of practicing love, because it has to be able to practice in different ways. The fact that we do not want to introduce the new § 115 and thus erode the Basic Law as such, that is something we stand for. But if that's how to understand that we can be happy in the Constitution only if we do it the way the Workers' Party will, I feel that we're on the wrong track. Earlier in the ageing period, we also voted down the derogation clause, for which the Workers' Party fought, and I do not understand why the Workers' Party will acquire this power and disregard important principles of the Basic Law through simple majority decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e433	The representative Raja’s exercise of love for the Constitution in this Chamber and in these debates has shown that love can be leaping, unpredictable and versatile. But it's everyone's right to define how love is for the individual, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e438	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e441	That may not be entirely necessary, but nevertheless: the characteristics given by the representative of the Workers' Party in this matter, I just have to be told from my point of view as the committee's leader that I reject and see as unusually unreasonable in parliamentary terms – that the Workers' Party now has a slip away from the Authority of the Constitution. It must be said from here when he first says what he says. That's why I'm taking the floor, really, to be told. It is completely unreasonable for Parliament in a big debate on a serious political issue to express itself in the way that Tetzschner does, because we do not, and I am not accusing him of the opposite, even if he has a different view on this matter. Now there's been a line exchange that has clarified this, but there's one argument in addition, and that's: if that's what the majority claims, that this is undermining the Basic Law's authority, then it's so to understand that most of the constitutions of the democratic states of Europe don't have the authority that the majority believes because they have such an exception provision. Most people have such an exception just in the light of the arguments we have put forward in this case. Moreover, the EMK, as I would say, is above the law on human rights in Europe, has the exception provisions for each paragraph. Before this debate is over, I would like to say that I miss Inge Wohnung in this debate. I wish he were among us and could present the vision he had as head of the Human Rights Committee, and which is exactly what the Labour Party stands for in this debate and in this Chamber. Then I think this might have had another outcome, precisely because he understood the context – in a secure right-wing conservative tradition, he understood it and stood for it. We did that in the treatment of the Human Rights Committee in general, and we are leaning on it in this debate as well. We are not the ones who have made a glide flight. If there are any, it's the Right that's done it -- not us, but the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e450	When I ask for the floor, it is on the basis of what Mr Kolberg said that the EMK is above the law, that is: it is above the Constitution. At best it must be a upresis statement. The EMK has its provisions, the EMK has its value base, and Norway has made a lot of progress. But in my first post I said that ‘the freedom of action of the big business must otherwise be valued in relation to the understanding of, among other things. International Conventions», and that «the Central Party will thus work towards an unnecessary restriction of the freedom of action of the Storting». I cannot agree with the statement made by the representative, Mr Kolberg, that the EMK is above the Basic Law in the sense that what the relevant persons of the EMK always put in what is in place will automatically become the understanding that Norway will also follow. This is a dynamic relationship, it is a space of action, and it is essential that the Norwegian increase within the international commitments should act in such a way that one chooses solutions that are adapted to our situation and to our international commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e461	We're at the end of the debate, so I'll be brief. There are two points: firstly, I think that the representative of Kolberg was injured to overlook that what I was commenting on was not the views of the Labour Party, as they have been expressed in the vote. What I was commenting on was the completely new proposal that was announced from the pulpit here, which was thus a very comprehensive basis for Stortinget to really set the Stortinge aside by ordinary law – and on completely different premises than what is itself in Section 115. So let's make it clear. Nor should it be that there are any representatives who undertake to be stylistical about others. I think we can leave that to the President if it is that way that you do not stick to the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, the reference to EMK, to which the representative of Kolberg was also involved, has been mentioned in the position. It is true that the possibility of restrictions on individual provisions has been written in purely legislative terms, but they have a different perspective, namely that the principle of proportionality in the EMK takes an individual approach, which should therefore not be allowed to interfere with the rights of individuals if they are disproportionate and unnecessary and do not serve social purposes. So it's an individual perspective, among other things. this is also part of the European legal tradition now. What is the objection to § 115 is that there is a proportionality rule for the state. When the State considers it too cumbersome to respect the rights otherwise enshrined in the Constitution, political or other, more opportunistically emphasized, can then be encroached on in the Constitution, and it is a different system than the system of the EMK.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e486	The issue of constitutionalising local democracy, or local autonomy, has been the subject of public debate in Norway for many years. The size has dealt with different variants of the issue in both 1998, 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2012. The proposals have always been rejected. While there have been several reasons, the most central ones have been on whether the concept of local self-government is a sufficiently precise concept of the position of local democracy in relation to the state power, and whether a fundamental law of local self-government, or democracy, can limit the state's freedom of action and flexibility. It has also been argued that such a fundamental law will require government authorities to become less detailed in relation to municipalities and county municipalities. Furthermore, the issue of the legal status has been debated. More specifically, can a foundation law-making provide the municipalities with a legal basis for bringing a case against the State in cases where the municipalities do not agree with the decision of the State? All the objections and questions have been important in finding out what we are going to decide today: whether a majority in this Chamber can support the fundamental law of local democracy. In the position that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is presenting to the Stortinget today, there is a constitutional majority for the constitutionalisation of local democracy, as it stands. In that case, any decision will be replaced by the following: ‘Populations have the right to direct local affairs through local elected bodies. Detailed provisions on the local elected level are laid down by law.’ There's been a long way to this. At this stage, the Committee has examined three proposals for the constitutionalisation of local democracy, or local self-government. Since the three proposals relate to the same basic legislation, i.e. the Constitution § 49, and to a large extent have the same motivation and justification, an overall committee has found it most appropriate to deal with the proposed proposals together. Common to the three proposals and an important reason why the proposal for the constitutionalisation of local democracy is constantly re-emerging is that Norway ratified without reservation the Council of Europe Charter of Local Self-Government in 1989. Article 2 of the Charter in Norwegian is replaced by the following: ‘The principle of local self-government shall be recognised in national law and in the Constitution where this can be implemented.’ It has been important for the proposers, and also for the Committee, that Norway is the only country among 26 European democracies which do not provide for local level or express municipal autonomy in its constitution, and that Norway has on several occasions received comments from the Council of Europe because local democracy is not included in the Constitution. Of course, municipal autonomy, or democracy, is incorporated in Norwegian law through a series of laws and practices, and the intention of the Council of Europe Charter of Local Self-Government is to be considered fulfilled. However, it is of course an important point that countries that do not recognise local democracy of course use the fact that Norway has not constitutionalized local democracy as an argument for not even recognising local self-government in their own country. I will now briefly outline the three proposals as they have been put forward. Firstly, it is the Constitutional Amendment 5, promoted by Per-Willy Amundsen, Bent Höie, Trond Helleland, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and Trine Skei Grande, which is the most cross-political one. This corresponds to the proposal from the previous period, which was rejected by 103 votes to 40. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party voted against, while the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted in favour. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Populations have the right to manage matters of a local nature through local bodies designated by direct and free elections. Such bodies may be entrusted with specific tasks by law or by agreement. Detailed provisions on elections, voting rights and geographical demarcation are laid down by law.’.» So to the next suggestion. It is the Constitutional Amendment 19, tabled by Anders Anundsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and Ib Thomsen, which briefly seeks to define local autonomy and express explicitly in the text of the proposal that a fundamental law should not restrict the ability of the State to decide which tasks the municipalities should have, how to control the business, how to review decisions, etc. The proposal is promoted in five alternatives such as the second paragraph of Section 49. There is option 3B in this proposal, which I have referred to, which is likely to get the constitutional majority here today. So to the third proposal, which is Document 12:26 for 2011–2012 from Per Olaf Lundteigen, Lars Peder Breck, Jenny Klinge, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Aksel Hagen. The proposal has many of the same reasons in itself as the other two proposals, but adds to the added value of the local government for the state. A supplement to the Basic Law § 75 is also proposed. The proposers promote two alternative proposals for a new second paragraph of Section 49 of the Constitution. One option is: ‘The municipal self-government shall strengthen our national government.’ And... ‘The Municipal Self-Government shall strengthen our national government.’ As an alternative, proposals are made for a new letter, n, in the Constitution § 75, which in that case will read: ‘to respect and secure municipal autonomy.’ I refer to this as the rapporteur-in-Office, so that it will emerge in the debate what is behind the discussion here today. As I have so far said, the Workers' Party voted against the constitutionalization of local democracy in the last big period. I'll briefly say something about the background for that. The current Committee held an open hearing in March 2012 in which KS participated. Information was provided during the consultation and could not be ignored. Among other things, it was said that in a future interpretation there would be no difference between the concepts of local self-government and local democracy. It also appeared that the proposal could be used as a political tool in situations where there is a disagreement as to whether the case is local in nature or not. In this case, the consequences could be a change in the division of tasks between the levels of government in Norway and an obstacle to the dynamics between the municipality and the state. Furthermore, fundamental legislation could have implications for legal practices. This was crucial for the position the Workers' Party took at that time. Other parties were also skeptical, and the proposal did not get the necessary constitutional majority, which I have already explained. It was against this background that the Progress Party promoted a proposal for the constitutionalization of local democracy that was just about to demonstrate to the scepticism of the majority of the population. That is what the Labour Party is proposing today, together with Right and SV, but which paradoxically the Advance Party will not now vote for. The other two constitutional proposals will be supported by the parties that have tabled them, and I expect them to explain the reasons for the vote. Furthermore, I would like to explain first of all the position of the Labour Party and the majority comments we are behind, in the first place together with Right and SV, but also to some extent with other parties. Let me first underline the strong importance of local democracy. That's, as we see it, one of the strongest values in Norwegian society. In addition, local democracy has a very strong population boom. Norwegian municipalities have been a decisive piece in the representative democratic welfare state, and municipalities have moved real power closer to individuals and the community. It is against this background that we need to see the change in the Constitution that is now being decided. Nevertheless, it is also such that the fundamental law of local democracy does not prejudge the fact that the local authority of municipalities is to be exercised within the national framework. The majority of the Committee has also been careful to stress that a constitutional provision on local democracy will not alter the borderline between the competences of the local authorities and a state body of complaint, mainly the State of Kylkesen, the Directorates and the Departments. The majority definitely do not want a development that would make it less possible for private parties to win with their complaints than today. Thus, the majority emphasises that Norway is a single country where citizens’ rights and obligations are to be the same throughout the country and that the legal certainty of its citizens should not be weakened by this constitutional change. On this basis, a majority in the Committee, and probably also a majority in the vote, believe that Constitutional Amendment 19, Document 12:19 for 2011-2012, Option 3 B, takes account of these considerations, and we propose that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e554	I can join very much, perhaps most of all, of what the case-rapporteur said. We got a clear and straightforward presentation of the matter. The right has had on its program that you want a fundamental law, and that is also one of the reasons why we are involved in creating a majority for this proposal. It's probably the only proposal today that can satisfy being adopted by the Storting. However, it is right to recall our governance tradition in Norway. We're a relatively small country, we live in dense communities, and we don't need all levels of government, even though some will claim to be closer to local democracy. That's why we have made it clear in the statement that the whole discussion that's in the notes relates to the primary municipalities. We have also been committed to stress that as we come from – and still are – a board of directors, we relate to administrative and legal matters, we will never get past the reality that local self-government is exercised on the basis of national law. It is true that local self-government has the extent to which it delegates its authority in different ways, primarily through law and regulation. However, from this point of view, it would be right to include in the Constitution a reference to local self-government. In this way, we also formally fulfil what has been discussed, namely whether we only formally – and not really – complied with the Charter of the Council of Europe. Then that case should also be in order. What has been a little anxious about us is, in particular, the interfaces between the complaint procedure, which concerns individuals affected by a local decision. We have been concerned about stressing that the individual's legal position should not be weakened, i.e. the possibility of having his case reviewed if one believes that an unreasonable local decision has been taken in the local government or in other local bodies. So the possibilities to get over this must be intact, so that the state with this provision does not give up the arrangements that have just been set up to secure the justice of the smallest unit of society, namely the individual. Nor do we want a constitutional provision to be used against the state to impose special autonomous areas, even as I said in the beginning. This does not mean that the State can at any time assess which tasks and powers they add to the local level, and I think that more work is needed to do so, but we do not need a constitutional provision to assess or set limits on that. It can and should have been and has been done to date by ordinary law. In some areas, I think it is more acceptable that in a dispute between the State and the municipality, the municipality also needs to assert its legal integrity, at least when it is more contractual, so that we can see that dispute resolution mechanisms allow the municipality not only to be exposed to the state's overpower when discussing the premises on which an agreement has been concluded, and the way in which it is fulfilled by the parties. In these areas, we have more to do to give local democracy more real decision-making power, but the path does not go through a reading of the Constitution, while we are satisfied that we are now getting this written into the Constitution, as we are otherwise in a trend where we write more of the Norwegian administrative tradition. We have recently entered in the Constitution the right to review the courts, the obligation to provide information, etc. I also think the case rapporteur gave a precise representation of the three proposals, and I can tell that we did not think the difference between them was so great that we spent a lot of time weighing these up against each other. But we have therefore taken the decision – and it is reflected in the majority vote – that we on the Right recommend our group to vote against proposal No. 26 against proposal No. 5 and for proposal No. 19, the proposal promoted by the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e576	Strengthening municipal autonomy has always been an important issue for the Progress Party. The Progress Party has stressed the need to increase user involvement and delegation of power to local political bodies, and that municipalities are given greater opportunity to control their income and expenditure, as well as greater freedom to organise their offerings in the way they believe that the population has the greatest benefit from them. In this case, three proposals have been put forward, all of which are based on the constitution of local democracy, as the rapporteur has explained. The proposal, which must be assumed to have the necessary qualified two-thirds of the majority at the time of the Stortingen reading today, is the proposal made by the former representatives of the big business Anders Anundsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Øyvind Waksdal and the current representative of the big business Ib Thomsen, all from the Progress Party. As mentioned above, when it is adopted that the proposal is given a qualified majority in today’s vote, the Progress Party will join some of the majority comments in the case. One comment relates to the assumption that a decision on fundamental law is wholly limited to: «the position of the primary municipality vis-à-vis State authority and that no other local arrangements, cooperation structures or levels of administration are covered by the Constitution». Furthermore, it is assumed that: «the number and geographical breakdown of the municipalities will remain a State responsibility». The Progress Party does not want a constitutional provision on local democracy to be used to restrict individual citizens’ rights or legal certainty. The Party of Progress thus aligns itself with the note on: ‘that the decision on a new constitutional provision will not initially change the boundary between the competence of a municipal body and the body of appeal, and that there is definitely no desire for a legal development which gives private parties less opportunity to win with complaints than at present. [[...]] In the context of the relatively wide examination of the proposals submitted by the Progress Party, the Progress Party has concluded that it is not necessary to legislate on local self-government, since the local level is already provided for in several of the existing constitutional provisions. It is therefore assumed that a separate constitution of the local self-government will not result in any significant change in that way. On this basis, the Party will not accept any of the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e602	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter. The Christian People's Party will ensure a well-functioning and constitutional local democracy. Local democracy and local law of destination are fundamental to our policies and governance of our political activities. The principle of subsidiarity – or subsidiarity, in good Norwegian – is that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible effective level. Conceptual use stems from Catholic social thinking and is originally about society not being involved in resolving issues that can be solved by the family. It's still a good principle. Politically, however, we extend this principle of subsidiarity to ensure that decisions are taken at the lowest effective level. Local democracy and participation are therefore central here. The Christian People's Party is co-sponsored on one of the proposals, namely Document 12:5 for 2011–2012. This proposal proposes to legislate local democracy through the following formulations: ‘Populations have the right to manage matters of a local nature through local bodies designated by direct and free elections. Such bodies may be entrusted with specific tasks by law or by agreement. Detailed provisions on elections, voting rights and geographical demarcation are laid down by law.’.» It is this proposal that we support primarily, and I am referring to this proposal. However, the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring a constitutional majority for the legalisation of municipal autonomy. It may seem that the proposal I have just referred to, supported by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party in the vote, will not have the necessary qualified majority. Document 12:19 for 2011-2012, from the Progress Party, is also on the table, and the majority consider this proposal to be different from the proposal that was made in the previous period, by giving the State the right to limit the autonomy of the municipality to a greater extent than the proposal that was voted down in the previous period. The proposal in Document 12:26 for 2011-2012 can be considered to be a more comprehensive proposal, reintroducing the concept of local self-government as an independent principle, without any restrictions on the part of the State. With regard to Document 12:19 for 2011-2012, the proposers have stressed that the proposal has been promoted in the light of the examination of the constitutionalisation of local democracy during the previous period. The intention is that the proposal should be an alternative which takes into account that the balance of power between the State and the municipality should not be distorted, while at the same time fulfilling the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe. The objections raised when the Stortinget last considered the constitutionalisation of local democracy are considered by several parties to be still valid, and the proposers in Document 12:19 for 2011-2012 have sought to raise these objections. The Basic Law proposal of the Progress Party, as formulated in Document 12:19 for 2011–2012, is not considered to be a protection against government governance, but a proposal that establishes the principle of a locally elected level. This is an important point in terms of the relationship between administrative levels. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to get a foundation law of local democracy. We will therefore vote primarily in favour of the proposal as formulated in Document 12:5 for 2011-2012. At the same time, we believe it is important to achieve a constitutional majority in this matter, and we will therefore vote subsidiaryly for the proposals in Document 12:19, or alternatively 3 B, if the proposal in Document 12:5 does not receive the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e635	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e638	As the rapporteur has explained, there are three different proposals on the same theme: the proposal in Document 12:5 for 2011–2012, which is supported by representatives of both the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, Document 12:19 for 2011–2012, which is supported by four representatives of the Progress Party, and Document 12:26 for 2011–2012, which is supported by three representatives of the Centre Party and two of the SV. The point of the first proposal is that it should be possible to direct issues of a local nature through local bodies designated by direct and free elections, i.e. the amendment of the second and third paragraphs of Section 49, which will be new. The second proposal is that one should direct local affairs through local elected bodies, § 49, second paragraph – option 3(B). Proposal No. 3 from the Centerpartiet and SV is simply that local matters are carried out through municipal maritime administration, i.e. option 2 – § 49 new second paragraph. What the rapporteur said at that point was unpresidious, so I would just like to stress that the proposal we are considering here of what we have proposed is option 2: «Local matters are carried out through municipal autonomy». Proposals for basic legislation on municipal maritime governance have been made several times, several times, and the proposal has been discussed — and rejected — from 1998 to 2012 a whole five times. The reasons for the rejection include, inter alia: the proposed concepts, i.e. the content of the proposal, have been sufficiently precise for the position of local democracy in relation to the state power. The centre party will indicate that the local government was not mentioned in a single word in the Constitution of 1814. The representative local bodies did not appear until 1837 with the Presidency laws and were regulated by ordinary law. This was at the time a very great progress in the political development of the people and a very important complement to the Constitution. And it was going to go over 150 years before there really arose a political pressure to get the municipality into the Constitution. Constitutional conservatism was all in the 1800s a powerful force that contributed to this. Since 1980, several amendments to the Constitution – with varying wording – have been proposed with the aim of legislating the municipality and the municipal maritime administration. The centre party indicates that if the formal constitutional anchoring has been missing, there is an ancient, imaginative sea of hope between the municipalities and the Constitution. Historian Johan Ernst Sars claimed well over a hundred years ago that the presidential laws of 1837 "considered such progress in terms of the political development of the people that they can almost be equated with the basic law itself". In connection with the centenary in 1937, another historian, Arne Bergsgård, wrote that the laws were a necessary complement to the Constitution – “the greatest and most important supplement that the constitution has ever received and could receive”. The municipal maritime administration of Norway is inextricably linked to certain institutional elements: free choice, the status of the municipality as a maritime legal entity, the right to taxation and the right to take on tasks which are neither prohibited nor attached to other bodies. The central party would point out that the municipal maritime administration in the Norwegian context does not mean that the state should stay away from it, but that the state should govern wisely, with moderation and moderation. The central party indicates that the municipal maritime administration can to some extent be characterised as part of a state framework governance ideal, an ideal that the state has justly had difficulty living up to today’s policy. Municipal maritime governance is not about municipal solitude. The characteristic feature of the Norwegian maritime administration is that it reflects the close interest of the community and the close trust ties between the top and bottom of our management system. Norwegian municipalities exercise maritime governance when they use their own discretion to carry out tasks on behalf of the country. The centre party would stress that mobilising the people as advisers was an important motive already when the Presidency laws were designed. After the Second World War, the municipal sector was transformed into a pillar for the welfare state, with the same justification – maritime governance was not an obstacle, but on the contrary, giving added value to the state. Tens of thousands of elected citizens across the country do a job that one would have needed an army of state bureaucrats to do, and the local populace also do the job better. The central party will therefore stress that the municipal maritime administration has acted as a part of an extension of state power and has adopted national policies, such as: within school, health and culture, a valuable layman’s component. By the fact that the municipalities have been able to translate national ambitions into local practice in a far more accurate way than the State would have been able to do, and precisely by the fact that the state has been active and made demands, the state has helped to make local democracy more powerful. The central party believes that from this understanding, state power and municipal maritime governance are not perceived as a zero-sum game, that is, a system where it automatically gets smaller by one if it becomes more of the other. The municipal maritime administration and the Stortinget support each other on the contrary and help each other to achieve common objectives. However, there may be conflicts, especially if the state gives too little room for local political discretion and views local policy as a cost rather than an added value when national policies are to be implemented locally. The central party stresses that one of the most characteristic features of the municipal maritime administration is that it has stood – and stands – so strongly in our people. We will therefore, on the basis of this understanding of the content of the municipal maritime administration, combined with the fact that the Constitution is to be a stronghold for democracy even in acute situations in the life of the nation, enter into the foundation of the municipal maritime administration. The central party is of the opinion that the municipal maritime administration as a value and as a characteristic of the Norwegian governance system should be highlighted as a separate paragraph of the Basic Law. In this context, I am promoting the proposal of the Centre Party so far. It has been stated that a fundamental law of the local maritime administration may restrict the State’s freedom of action and flexibility, as it would be implicit in such a fundamental law that State authority would have to become less detailed in terms of governance vis-à-vis municipalities and county councils. As I have now gone through this, there is no basis for such an understanding. In the past, the working party has had such a real argument against fundamental law. At the meeting of the Control Committee on 15 May 2012 on the ‘Fundamental Law for Local Democracy’, as it was then called, there was a note from the Workers’ Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, saying: ‘The draft Constitutional Law on Local Democracy does not specify the type of local democracy to be enshrined in the Constitution.’ And on the other hand, ‘The dynamic relationship between administrative levels may be frozen.’ In the same document, the Party of Progress stated its argument that: ‘Fundamental law may result in a restriction of the government governance model to the local democratic level’. What's very interesting is to go further into the setting that was treated then, Innst. 298 S for 2011-2012, where the Progress Party has the following comments: ‘These members point to the fact that the National Assembly of the Progress Party has asked the Enlarged Group of the Progress Party to launch efforts to propose a good way to establish constitutional local democracy without jeopardising the governance of the State and to promote several alternative proposals for treatment during the next majorisation period.’ And that happened – it happened through the proposals that have been made here, and that is very special: the Progress Party promotes its own proposal, Document 12:19 for 2011–2012, and that the Progress Party's Per-Willy Amundsen is also on Document 12:5 for 2011–2012, together with representatives from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. And then it signals in the setting and further from the main figure here today that one today will vote against all the Constitutional proposals. All the constitutional proposals! There is a need for an explanation from Stortingen’s pulpit here today that is something more than that ‘it is not necessary’ with a foundational statute. For, as I said here in the introduction, the procedure that is around the draft constitution is particularly circumstantial. This is an important theme. One has chosen to do something, one promotes timely proposals – which involve such and such – and then one comes here today, and then it is up to a vote against. It must be explained in more detail, clearly explained. At best, there has to be maritime criticism from the party that one says one thing in the election, one says one thing when one is going to have a riot, and then, when one comes here, then has a completely different position. As I said, the proposal of the centre party is very clear and very brief: local matters are being carried out through municipal maritime administration. There are two concepts that are central — it is ‘municipal’, and it is ‘military’. The proposal will not have a majority. It's a taboo for the Center Party to legislate the municipal maritime administration, and I particularly noticed the representative Tetzschner, who said that he had assessed all three proposals and so that they were in reality reasonably similar, not to take too seriously. I would like to say that it will be misunderstood whether the Central Party should be associated with the Progress Party, which has a completely different reason, and vote against the proposal that will be given a qualified majority. On that basis, the Central Party will vote subsidiaryly for option 3B, that is, Roman number III in the setting, so that one gets our view in the best way, also in the history book.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e706	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e709	In the Nations newspaper today, there is a matter of what we are about to adopt today, and is now dealing with. Local democracy is the pillar of our democracy, and it deserves to be enshrined in the constitution. It now finds its rightful place. Now that we want to establish this, it is also a tribute to local politicians around the country and the beach, to the outermost regions, of the important work you do every day. It is crucial for the development of our nation, and not least it forms the basis of our modern, Norwegian democratic model. It is also a recognition of their work and the importance of local politicians and local democracy. As the representative of Gruvan pointed out, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environmental Party of the Greens have their own comment, stressing that the fundamental law of local democracy will confirm the important role of local democracy, both historically, today and in the future. A fundamental law-making will also protect local democracy and ensure the democratic participation and influence of the population. It has been used as an argument against basic law that the State’s action will be limited. However, a fundamental law in itself will not imply a new situation in the relationship between the State and local authorities. It does not restrict the freedom of action of the Grand Duchy, either in terms of the ability to perform important national tasks or to further develop local self-government. We have our own proposal that we're going to vote for in the first place. Subsidy, we will vote in favour of the proposal which will receive the required two-thirds majority. With this, I'm dealing with the proposal that the Left is behind with the other two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e718	The President believes that the proposal has already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e722	SV joins the case rapporteur's introduction and is behind the setting in the case. The purpose of this draft constitution is set out in the vote. Local democracy is important for the health of democracy. In many parts of the world, people sacrifice their lives for local democracy. Now, when we base this to align with the Charter of Local Maritime Administration that we ratified in 1989, it's not to distort the situation today. And it doesn't necessarily have to mean that we haven't fulfilled our obligations so far, but that we are now formalizing the obligations we have and that we have implemented in practice to now, both through other types of laws and through practices. So that's an important thing we're doing, because it's going to be order in this, and it should be in the Constitution, what we're obliged to do through international agreements in this way. It is very clear from the proposal that the intention is not to distort the current balance of power between municipalities and the state, nor to limit the state's ability to determine the tasks of municipalities, how to control the business, and that it is possible to review decisions. That's what SV agrees with. It is because the arguments put forward by the rapporteur are valid and heavy, namely that we are living in a country where there must be legal certainty for all citizens, that we must have a welfare system that applies to all, that the municipalities have the responsibility to carry out part of these important tasks, but within the state framework set, and that the inhabitants should not be subjected to arbitrary or unfair discrimination. I believe that those legal provisions have been very widely agreed upon by the Stortinget. It will of course be a constant discussion of these boundaries and the interpretation of the laws that are given. But the vast majority of the Biggest – I think perhaps all – agree that the important principle of legal certainty and equal rights should be dealt with in a uniform manner by legislation, perhaps in particular legislation relating to school or basic welfare, and that citizens are not treated differently. I have a question. I'm no longer on the Control and Constitutional Committee. That is why I have a small question about the comment text on page 8 of the setting. The legislative proposal that we are behind, and which seems to have a majority here – we are very pleased about it – says that the citizens have the right to direct local affairs through local elected bodies, and that is important, but in a comment that is at the top of page 8 of the vote, the term ‘primary municipalities’ is used. The interpretation, as I see it in the municipal law, is that the primary municipalities include the elected bodies of the municipalities and county municipalities. I think it's important that we get to know that that's what it's about now. This, of course, does not mean that the state can change both municipalities and county municipalities, but that this applies to the local elected bodies that work today. I'm just asking that it be clarified, so that the two terms are completely consistent, and that we agree on that, we who are behind this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e733	This is a big day. The fact that we finally get the Constitutional Principle of Local Self-Government in Norway is very nice to join a green politician. Not only are we obliged to such a fundamental law-making process through the Council of Europe Charter of Local Self-Government, local democracy is part of the soul of Norwegian democracy. It is part of our history, and protection should be provided in the Norwegian Constitution in order to ensure the ability of the population to democratic rights and influence. The fact that as much as possible of what concerns our citizens is to be determined at the lowest possible level, i.e. as much as possible, is also one of the core elements of the green values of a living community and a living democracy. It is about people themselves experiencing a responsibility for the community – and ownership and belonging to the decisions taken. We know that there's more to it than distance. We see this repeatedly and at the latest in a look-up in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, which refers to a research report from CICERO, which shows that local anchoring is the best way to get people involved in the Earth's environment. Local envelopes increase people's commitment more than if you focus on it remotely. It's human that this is happening. That's why it's a good idea to take that into account in politics. At the same time, of course, all policy areas, ranging from individual rights to vulnerable areas and resources, depend on national governance and organisation. It is not given what should at any time be at what level. In the ongoing municipal reform, disagreements about this have become very clear, but the principle of having the municipality as both a level of government and a democratic level close to the population is undisputed. That is why the Greens believe that it should also be included in the Constitution, as other important pillars of our democracy are written into the Constitution. The Constitution should as far as possible reflect the reality of how our country is governed – as we were in the debate on § 115 a moment ago – and the individual’s rights. This case consists of three different constitutional proposals, all of which are about legislating local democracy. The Greens are primarily in favour of proposal No. 5, Document 12:5 for 2011–2012, together with the Left and Christian People's Party. This would mean that the following wording was adopted in the Constitution: ‘Populations have the right to manage matters of a local nature through local bodies designated by direct and free elections. Such bodies may be entrusted with specific tasks by law or by agreement.’;» We believe that this wording is clear about today's practice of local democracy, which also involves direct and free elections, without the text creating uncertainty as to whether this means that a fundamental law should change the authority of the municipalities or the division of responsibilities between the municipalities and the state. The wording of this proposal does not restrict the freedom of action of the Grand Duchy, either as regards the possibility of solving important national tasks in the future, or the development of local autonomy with the municipalities and county councils. At the same time, we note that this proposal will not have a majority. We then support Subsidy Proposal No. 19, Document 12:19 for 2011–2012, Option 3B, which reads: ‘Populations have the right to direct local affairs through local elected bodies. Detailed provisions on the local elected level are laid down by law.’ We're in any case happy that we're now getting a majority to legislate on local autonomy. At the same time, we would like to thank the Committee and the political groups for their thorough consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e758	Local democracy in Norway has long traditions. Every four years, voters go to the polling rooms to determine who is to bemoan the most important local political trustees in their own municipality over the next four years. Municipalities are given responsibility for major societal tasks and important tasks for the population: kindergarten to the very smallest, schooling to children and young people, care for the elderly and most nurturing and health care to the whole population — to mention something. In addition to being service providers, municipalities are important social planners and developers of their own municipality and community. They have responsibilities, and not least the municipalities are a very important democratic arena. The Committee stresses in its opinion that local democracy is one of the strongest values in Norwegian society, and that the municipalities have been and are a crucial piece in the Norwegian representative democratic welfare state. The principle of subsidiarity, which means that tasks and decisions are as close as possible to those relating to them, is central in this context. That decisions relating to welfare services, which are of great importance to people's everyday lives, are taken by elected representatives close to the people's lives, are essential to the quality of the services provided, and that the population can hold those who make these decisions accountable. At the same time, it is a central principle in Norway that municipalities operate within the framework of the national community. This is reflected in the purpose of the municipal law. Examples of frameworks provided by the national community are equivalence of service provision and legal certainty for citizens. This must be firm. It is therefore good that the majority of the Committee emphasises that the decision on a new constitutional provision will not initially change the borderline between the competence of a municipal body and the appeal body, and that there is definitely no desire for legal developments that give private parties less opportunity to win with complaints than today. A constitutional provision on local democracy shall not be used to restrict individual citizens’ rights or legal certainty. It is also good that the Committee emphasises that a constitutional provision on municipal autonomy does not establish any limits on the division of functions and tasks within the general government which the Storting considers appropriate by means of ordinary legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e775	The Constitutional Debate is the Biggest's debate, but I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity – since it is a historic day – to give credit to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for putting together a proposal that will now also make fundamental laws for local self-government. This is a discussion that several representatives, including Martin Kolberg, have gone back and forth for many years – well a few decades – and where different proposals have been put forward with different reasons for supporting and rejecting. That is why there is extra reason to express pleasure in the fact that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs seems to be able to get together behind a proposal that could be adopted in the Grand Duchy. This is essentially to consolidate the legacy of the Presidency laws, which were introduced in 1837, and it is, as underlined in the comments, primarily a declaration of principle. However, the fact that there is a broad political consensus behind this gives strength, and also that we are now removing the uncertainty that has arisen regarding Norway's fulfilment of the Council of Europe Charter of Local Self-Government. Then it is that this constitutional provision will not change the political debate that we have from day to day in the Storting and also in the public space about the intersection of national governance, the room for action of local democracy and the rights of the individual, but it is nevertheless important that it is now marked that we are legislating local self-government. Then it will be up to government and growing up just today-to-day policy to show that we are strengthening local democracy. There the government has now sent to the hearing a proposal for a dispute resolution between the State and the municipality that allows municipalities to independently test state decisions. I have also recently received the position of the Municipal Law Committee, which in several areas will also help to strengthen the conditions of local democracy if the Stortinge agrees to this. It is with pleasure that I see that it may seem that a sufficient majority in the Grand Duchy today can unite behind this constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e790	First answer to a question from the representative Karin Andersen about the understanding of the primary municipalities: we are talking about the primary municipalities, i.e. the municipalities, read: not the county municipalities, in this context – in order to make it quite clear to me that it has been clarified. Then I see that it is approaching the end of this debate. I would like to express my thanks for and pleasure at the fact that we are clearly going to adopt this provision, after very many years and many discussions back and forth. I'm also glad that Council Sanner expressed joy and understanding for what's being done here, and calls this a historic day. That means that we have reached a point in these long processes of our political development where we believe, very much in agreement, that it is very important that we put this provision into place in the Constitution, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e811	In this case, there is a large majority, all except SV, who are behind the recommendation for the suspension. I also read to you that there is consensus in the committee, from all parties, that there should be a very high threshold to exempt the representatives of big business from meeting. SV falls to a different conclusion than the rest of the Committee, thus promoting proposals 3B and 3C as set out in the opinion. I assume that SV will justify his own view in more detail, in the same way as the other parties. The background to the proposal is that, in exceptional cases, long-term leave has been granted to individual representatives. Situations have arisen where representatives have wanted to take up positions which cannot be combined with being a magnification representative. Three alternative proposals have been put forward in which the conditions for exemption are different. The most liberal option has no other condition than that the representative himself applies for an exemption. The most restrictive option is that exemptions are granted only if this is of national interest. The third option gives Storting a certain freedom to determine the conditions for itself. The Committee has given particular attention to the fact that the grossing-up exercise is a constitutional obligation. It is initially not possible for people who are eligible to vote against elections. The starting point is that all those who are eligible are obliged to accept a choice as a grossing-up representative. The proposal to allow exemptions from the meeting of the Storting may, following the views of the majority, including the Christian People's Party, help to weaken the awareness of the obligation it implies to be a representative of the magnificence. It is necessary to place great emphasis on the responsibilities of a representative under the Constitution. The same proposals that we are now considering were made in 2008. They also did not get the necessary majority when they were treated in plenary in 2010. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the proposals at the time were actually considered by an overall committee to be on the frontier or beyond the limit of not being in line with the spirit of the Constitution. Storing representatives have an obligation enshrined in the Constitution. It is therefore not correct, in my opinion, whether Stortinget even after a choice can grant an exemption on application. In practice, the most liberal option will remove the obligation to receive elections as a wholesaler. The position of an authorised representative must continue to be a civil obligation for the elected representatives. I therefore believe, like the majority of the Committee, that today's legislation in practice works well. This also applies in the few exceptional situations that may arise. The Committee therefore recommends that the proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e828	This proposal concerns ‘to allow exemptions from meeting at Stortinget’. But it also allows for something else. It allows undue pressure to be put on individual representatives to resign from the national assembly, either from their own party, from opponents of opinion or from the press. We can all imagine situations and times where this could happen. The Labour Party believes that those who are elected to the Stortinget are elected by people; it is a contract of trust that people have given to the individual representative, and that one must try to manage according to one's own talent and degree of popularism. At the same time, we believe that this proposal is important to take away from because this contract between people and representatives, regardless of the party, regardless of the pressure, is so important and precious that it is worthy of fences.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e835	Let me start with what the Constitution once and for all establishes. It says that the grossing-up work is a constitutional duty. It is initially not possible for people who are eligible to vote against elections. The starting point is that all those who are eligible are obliged to accept a choice as a grossing-up representative. The representative Christensen gave an example of how this could be. I also have an example of how it can be – I choose to put this example perhaps at the head of something, but nevertheless: a big shot where a well-known and perhaps very popular representative of big business chooses to withdraw from further work in the Storting, but is encouraged by the party to stand for elections, just to secure a mandate, and then, after the election, to take advantage of a candidate who might not have achieved the necessary number of votes to enter the Stortinget. Although it's at the head, it's actually possible to do a lot of things with a liberal exemption from the Stortinget. In my opinion, the current scheme – which has been discussed by many, where leave is granted in special cases – is adequate for the need for exemption. At the beginning of this period, for example: granted leave to the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, because it was considered to be of national interest that he was given the post of Secretary-General of NATO. This is a good example of the proper functioning of the present system. That is why the Progress Party is going to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e844	I join the two previous speakers. Access to their mandate is alien to our constitutional practices. You can claim that it works well in other countries' national parliaments, but then you might also have to consider that they have other game rules, which means that the term is not as fixed as ours, for example. the possibility of printing new selections, which basically mean that these periods will be on average shorter than the full fixed periods. Otherwise, I also very much agree with the elements that we have chosen to focus on, namely that behind an official justification that is beautiful, it can hide a real reason that is not quite so beautiful. For those who have been part of party politics for a while, I don't need to elaborate on it. In order to restrain the independence of the representatives by cutting off the discussion: If you are elected to the Stortingen, you are sitting there; the discussion is over. Then we have the few exceptions – from what should be the general rule, but there is so much publicity and transparency around them that they do not create problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e851	This has been a simple matter for the Center Party, and I agree with what has been said earlier. The paperwork is a statutory obligation. It is a derogation in the case of sickness and other urgent personal reasons. It's necessary, and it's usually right. The centre party does not want any liberalisation of the practice that is, rather, on the contrary. Stepping back from the Storting and going into the World Economic Forum or going into aid work, we don't think it's right to grant exemptions from the Stortinget. Those who make choices to represent their state and their party on the Storting must be 100 pst. motivated to carry out the duties. It is the responsibility that lies within it. It must not be so that lots can use a name tactically, as has been said by others here too, in order to thereby increase their disintegration, and that they then step back for a reason that is not essential. There is also a point that one does not want liberalisation that can allow pressure from one's own party to cause people to retreat, so we are very clear that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e860	Sick about this proposal that I want to promote, today not get a majority, I do it anyway. It's not because SV wants any other practice than that of today, that we want a more liberal exemption regime than it is today. That's adding our remarks and our proposal completely wrong intention. There's no basis for that. The majority today want to continue the practice. The SV wants, when the obligation is laid down in the constitution, that the possibilities of exemption that are also attached in the same way. We want this to be formal and not more uncodified, as it is today. Today's practice opens up for leave. There is no doubt about the seriousness of the matter. For many, it's almost a bit curative to talk about opposing choices. Most people who enter the Stortinget have fought like it's just to be nominated first and then elected, so it's not like you're standing high on a list and don't want to be elected. I hear stories now that you might be able to use some popular people like strawmen, etc. It will not be based on current practice, nor will it be possible to rely on a practice that would be similar if we were to vote in favour of the proposal that SV is promoting today. I would also like to say that the reason given in the draft Constitution that is behind the bill, which argues that there is an alternate who has a job or a job that cannot be reconciled with sitting on the Stortinget, in my view, is not necessarily a good enough reason. These are choices you take for a period when you're under no pressure other than if you want to be on a list or not. Personally, I belong to those who are quite restrictive when it comes to saying that it is okay to detach the landfill to enter other positions. I am not entirely against it, but I am restrictive about it and believe that it should be limited as much as possible, for this is the choice you make. But the reason I'm promoting this is that I'm not only concerned with the seriousness of the job, but also with the seriousness of life – the seriousness of life that hits some representatives sometimes very hard, and that makes you need on your own maritime basis to take this choice to step back, just because you have to. When practical practice is such that it is possible to do so, it should also be clear to representatives who can personally enter such a position. I know that it can happen, and I know that it can be very serious for many. Some people have described party cultures where maybe it's so that you can get pressured out, and you can get pressured into wanting to pull out. I can't say that can't happen, but that's not what this proposal SV is promoting. What we want to confirm is the legislation in which we can now obtain leave for welfare reasons, but that it must be clear to the representative, and that there is a resolution that the representative must have a great influence on the sea – that it is clear. There are people who are chosen for the Big One, people who glow to be on the Big One, who are chosen for the Big One. There's no one chosen here that won't be here. But sometimes, then, the seriousness of life can hit you in a way that makes this incompatible. That is why we have stated that this possibility of resigning should also be included in the Constitution, in the same way as the obligation to accept the job is there. Our proposal is going to fall today. I believe that the whole majority agrees that the practice we have today should be followed. Personally, I have signaled that I believe that the grounds for exemption for some may be too open to the choices you are making, while our intention is to care for the people affected by things and of choices they do not take, but where they have to be able to make the decision whether this is compatible with continuing to sit on the Stortinget or not. I'll bring this up with the SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e893	In this setting, too, it has crystallised a very clear recommendation that the draft constitution should not be accepted, even if one can understand the concerns of the proposers. There are two considerations that stand against each other. First of all, the country is well served by putting people into political leadership, that the country's government has the best talent for the task, even when these talents had to be elected to the Grand Duchy. Then the question is whether it represents a democratic problem, because the voters of a democracy are the top source of legality for the national Parliament. Tackling the verdict of voters by making it so that there are other representatives than those actually elected from the electoral district, representing the electoral district, is not entirely inconceivable. Then you can have a more practical approach to this, and that's what I feel that the majority of the committee has fallen. How big a practical problem is this? Since the war, or during the period of our state custom in which the state secretaries have had their growth, it has been appointed approx. 800 persons as State Secretary. The consumption of State Secretaries is increasing. More than half are appointed after the year 2000. We know that 89 of these 800 at some point have also served in the National Assembly, but we don't have statistics on how many role collisions there have been. If we look at the current period and the previous period, it limits itself to two-three. We have thus come to the conclusion that we do not want to use the Basic Law as a regulatory mechanism for a problem that is quite limited in practice, but it follows from the comments with some advice on the way. It is that the various assessors must pay particular attention to the fact that the size does not consider this to be an ideal situation and that the need for regulation should be assessed if the scale increases. It is of particular importance that the speech of the voters in each electoral district is also reflected in which people – at least on more solemn occasions – fill the hall we have in front of us. I also allow myself to mention a few other things about the State Secretary function that should call for more interest and perhaps also some concern. It's that in many areas they have a slightly fuzzy status. In the past, the government has wanted to maintain the difference between the state councils, which are responsible for what they say in this room, and the state secretaries, while at the same time taking more and more part in the administrative management of the departments themselves. There's something broken ground, to suggest it. However, we do not clear up this by agreeing to this constitutional provision, either by voting it down, except to remember that there is a limit to what practice and what extent a practice might have before the Stortinget has to take this up again for discussion just to regulate it. But we hope that the scope of this doesn't get bigger than that we can live with it, as we do today. This is why we do not support this Constitutional Initiative as it now exists. Then we have to be careful – and that's another side – that the Storting can also show that being a representative is such an interesting, exciting and honorable function in our democracy that many of those reasons refrain from the request to become Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e913	Essentially – completely, really – I agree with the comments that the rapporteur, Mr Tetzschner, has just presented. What we need to be very clear about when we deal with this matter is that it is a matter of concern to several important constitutional matters, above all what the representative Tetzschner was about: who is it to decide who is going to sit in the Stortinget? It is the people in elections who will decide the composition of the Storting. As the position shows, this is a development over time that has been the subject of long discussions – not that the people, of course, should decide, but the developments we have had toward appointing representatives as state secretaries. For real, this became a real challenge after 1976, when the system of state secretaries was constitutionally established at the same time as the Stortinget – correctly, I would say – decided that when you are Secretary of State, you would have to resign as a magnificence representative, in the same way as for government councils. As Tetzschner also pointed out, the responsibility of the State Secretary towards Stortinget is nevertheless clearly different from that of the Councils of State. The Councils of State are constitutionally accountable to the Stortinget, while the Secretary of State is not. As suggested in the arguments put forward by the proposers, it creates a constitutionally unfortunate situation when depositors appointed to state secretaries must step out of the Storting and thus no longer be able to exercise their functions in the way that the Constitution really determines. It is purely constitutional to say, as the proposers state, that this is a system and practice that is contrary to the basic principle that only the people in elections determine the composition of the Storting. I would also like to say that it is worth noting to the Stortinget that there was a united presidency – I repeat a united presidency – from the previous period that was behind the proposal that is now under consideration here in the Stortinget. Like the rest of the committee, the Workers' Party believes that there may be different views on the extent of the practical problem of today's system or how many benefits it may bring. In recent years, there have been large-scale representatives of state secretaries of governments of different political colours. More than half are appointed after 2000, starting with the Bondevik I government. The number appointed Secretary of State of Stortinget is limited and no greater at this time than the fact that, in the view of the Workers' Party, it does not qualify for an absolute prohibition. But if this practice were to escalate, and there I agree with what Tetzschner also said – he said the same thing, if this practice were to escalate – there might be reason for Stortingen to reconsider the proposal. On this basis, the Workers' Party will not support the proposal to amend the Basic Law in order to thus close the possibility of appointing large-scale representatives to state secretaries. It's also because there may be moments that speak to keep such a system as it is today. One of the reasons that contradicts the Constitutional Bill is that a restriction on who can be recruited to the government apparatus could be seen as concretely unreasonable. Another is that the law as it is now practiced gives more experience from the work of the Storting into government. The individual being asked is also free to say no to such an appointment. But first of all, as I said, we want at the moment to be held back from putting absolute constitutional obstacles to such practice. On this basis, the Workers' Party has chosen, on the basis of an overall assessment, to allow the present-day system to continue, but assumes that a political judgement is being exercised which requires a certain degree of moderation in recruiting from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e934	The Progress Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, will vote in favour of the proposal that the representatives of the State of Great Britain cannot be appointed as State Secretaries. These parties believe that it is only a matter of time before the number of State Secretaries from the Storting becomes a problem in the sense that Stortinget's personnel differs slightly from what the voters have decided. Over time, it will also erode the principle that representatives are required to sit out, but with the traditional exception of being able to receive international positions of high importance for Norway. I support the argument in the Constitutional Bill, which deals with the appointment of depositors to state councils, such as. states that this appointment is not a problem for the composition of the Storing, as state councils have the right, and in practice the duty, to meet for the Storing – rights and obligations a State Secretary will not have. Following an overall assessment in order to prevent such developments, the Progress Party will support the Constitutional Law proposal, which implies that the government should not have the possibility to bring in large-scale representatives to serve as state secretaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e945	The President then perceived it as Tom E.B. Holthe took up the suggestion he referred to that he would vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e948	In recent years, government representatives have been appointed as state secretaries several times. We have examples of this from governments of different political colours. The proposers point out that the state secretary must automatically withdraw from the Stortinget and can only be reinstated if he/she is dismissed during the electoral period. On both points, the scheme implies that another government, the government in this case, has a direct influence on the composition of the Storting. Thus, the control body is involved in determining how the control body is to be assembled. I understand that this may have some suspicious principal aspects. I note that the proposers consider it to be your practice that today's practice involves a deviation from the constitutional and fundamental system, in principle, that it is the voters and not the executive who will determine the composition of the Storting. I see that this is a relevant issue. At the same time, we have to ask ourselves whether the situation is such that there is really a need to take such a radical approach as a constitutional change will be. It has been clarified that the same problem will not exist when a Grandfather’s representative is appointed to the Council of State. I fully agree with that, as the proposers point out, in these cases, in a completely different way, we are at the heart of the constitutional system. Governments have a right, and in practice also an obligation, to meet in the Grand Duchy. The Councils of State have constitutional and parliamentary responsibility for the activities of the Government and the Departments. It's the Council of State that answers to Stortinget. The proposal therefore aims to close the current possibility of obtaining State Secretaries from the Stortinget. This is justified, inter alia, by: from the point of view of democracy. There may be differing views on the extent of the practical problem of today’s system. But in principle, I fully agree that today's system can give the government the opportunity to influence the makeup of the Stortinget. One point which contradicts the draft constitution is that today the government apparatus has access to the most competent and competent people in the country. The recruitment basis should be as broad as possible. However, I believe there is a broad consensus that the problem is currently very small, and should it evolve to become a bigger problem, get an opportunity to come back to the question. The Christian People's Party understands, and sympathizes, in particular, with the intention of the proposers, but we do not believe that there is a need to legislate on an absolute constitutional obstacle. That is why we recommend the continuation of the present system. But as it is clear from the comments in the position, and as I would like to emphasise again, we assume that a political judgement is exercised that warrants some moderation in recruiting state secretaries from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e965	I would like to say that this matter is really the most special of the proposals we are dealing with here today, in particular in the way that the Constitutional proposal is made by depositors from all parties in the previous period, represented by the Workers' Party's Day Terje Andersen, former depositor Per-Kristian Foss, at that time at long speed in the control committee, Dagfinn Høybräten, former leader and central in the Christian People's Party and Snorre Serigstad Valen, SV's current Vice President. I guess no one at the last big shot imagined anything else – when there was such a bouquet of people with seagoing times and with confidence who suggested such a clear formulation – than that we should get into the situation that there will be no constitutional change at this point today. I underline what I have said in several articles, the need to take this more seriously. The representative Tetzschner was involved in the role of the State Secretary. I agree that it is an important topic that should be discussed, but as the representative also said, there is no topic here today, because the Stortinge knows only the Council of State, and a Secretary of State is a helping hand to the Council of State – a central helping hand, a helping hand that has procura on behalf of the community. But it's uninteresting for Stortinget, because we only know the council. The development that this Constitutional proposal was to stop was precisely the fact that it is becoming more and more common for the government representatives to be appointed State Secretaries - 89 in the figure so far. Of these, half are appointed after the year 2000, after the Bondevik I government. So it's a development that I would say so strongly that is an unculture in relation to what is the contract that the single representative has with his voters when a candidate is elected and elected. One should then participate with his or her workforce here. If you don't become a state councillor, this is a government councillor. It's not appropriate to go in as a State Secretary. I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Left are together with the Centre Party on a note and the proposal that the representative of the Progress Party has taken up and that we in the Centre Party support. We believe that we need to prevent such a development that I have now described and that we do not want. We recommend that today's practice not be continued. The representative of Kolberg said that who is to be recruited to the government apparatus could be limited by this, and that it could be seen as concretely unreasonable. That I would say is quite special. A seafarer should determine the role to be played. I don't think it's unreasonable to have his role here in the hall if one is not appointed to the Council of State. I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Left are together with the Center Party on the Constitutional Proposal on Option 2 A, so that a new Section 14 is given a new second paragraph, where it is called short and succinct: ‘Administrative representatives may not be appointed as State Secretaries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e983	The representative Lundtigen was so kind to mention my name in his post, and I have argued a number of times in the past for, writing articles about and justifying why I think it was right to promote the Constitutional Bill. I think we have had a good debate in the extension of the Constitutional proposal. In the last period, we had a debate for the first time in this Chamber on the constitutional proposals that had been submitted, and I think we had a good debate in that context. I still believe that it would be right if the Constitutional Bill were adopted, and I believe that because I think that the paperwork should be considered so that it should hang very high, and that it should be very difficult to get an exemption from the paperwork. That is why I believe that exemptions, as the Storting has ever done, which relate to UN missions and other key international missions on behalf of the country, should be for a type of job where one can say that a person clearly goes to a high level of interest in the country. In my world, it is clear that a Secretary of State has a lower political rank than a elected representative of the population. In addition, the fact that the control function indicates that it is a concern that one goes from one position to another in the Norwegian political system, and is not subject to control by the Storting, that is, that one is not accountable to the Storting, as a government council does. That was the background to the proposal. It was especially in the spirit that we had around the anniversary period, and the changes that are still in discussion. The opinion of the proposers was that it would be a good idea for the distribution of responsibilities between the state powers to give the magistrates the right authority and to remove the occasion now provided by the Constitution. I note that it is not a majority in favour of it, and it can be argued for it. I believe that the principle is important in this matter, and will just confess that for my part I am going to vote for the constitutional amendment that I myself have agreed to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e994	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1008	I refer you to the proposal by Anders Anundsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Øyvind Waksdal on amendments to the Constitution § 57 [[Selection system]] A second majority, all with the exception of the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, have noted that it is in no way certain that the electoral system will become more equitable or representative if the land area factor is reduced or abolished and/or only voting rights are used for the allocation of mandates. The original proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party contained a total of eleven different variables to amend the Constitution § 57 [[Selection system]] However, I have a certain sense of the principle that all votes should count equally. The proposers refer to a number of examples of how both current and previous electoral arrangements have resulted in a certain division of bias between the parties in percentage and the number of representatives. I therefore believe that, as an extension of the announced regional reform, it would be natural to re-examine the electoral system, to look at whether there should still be 19 electoral districts or whether the electoral districts should follow the new regions that might become, and whether it would still be natural to have a land area factor as an element in the calculation of the number of representatives from each region. As there is a minority in the case, I expect them to explain their views. The majority’s recommendation is that all options of the proposals presented are not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1021	I would like to welcome the fact that this proposal is not being adopted today because it is a proposal that will, in essential areas, establish completely new principles for electoral arrangements in Norway. The historical position of the electoral arrangements has been that one has always taken different types of geographical consideration. It is true, as suggested by the proposers and in the general political change of words about electoral arrangements, that one could say that the districts are ‘overrepresented in relation to the population’, but it is a political expression that is important in order to keep the Norwegian State together properly. That is why Norway is Norway. And that's why we make sure that those areas that do not have the same population density as part of the urban areas – and especially the Oslo region – are also represented in a qualified and proper way. What would be the development if this proposal were to be adopted would eventually be a rather dramatic drift towards the people-centred areas. It is possible to argue in principle for – as the proposal does – given that a vote should count equally across the country, but there are few electoral arrangements in Europe that follow this principle of 100 pst. The arrangements in place, which this proposal does not concern, namely the question of dealing with ad valorem mandates, have been taken into account to some extent. When it is the case that, in today's order, we are adjusting the number of representatives of each state at each other elections – that is, every eight years – it will automatically be in a direction that is the intention of the proposal. However, if we were to remove the land co-efficient, as this proposal proposes, at different levels, it would weaken the regional representation of the Norwegian population in a politically very unfortunate way. This is documented in the attitude that this could also be undemocratic, particularly in the case of the United States. Finnmark, who could end up with just two representatives instead of the number they have today. Such a development is not desirable, nor is it politically democratic – I would say – on the condition that we have to ensure a fair distribution and a proper representation from all over the country. That is why the Workers' Party will vote clearly against this, and I am, as I said, very happy that this will be rejected in cash as it will be. Finally, just to what the rapporteur said, and which I agree with: in the situation that we are getting new regions in the country, with an extended political authority, we are standing somewhere else. Then we have a completely different kind of discussion. But it is not affected by this proposal. This proposal will lead to centralisation and will result in an uneven distribution of representatives in a way that is unfortunate for the relationship between what one might call city and country in Norway. We don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1038	I'm not going to spend a very long time, I'm just going to give a brief explanation of vote for the Right. I allow myself in this post to address the proposals under discussion in this case, No. 5, I'm also going into the next case, no. 6th@item: inlistbox On the right, both of the two proposals go as they are now designed, although, in principle, the proposals individually can be reasonable adaptations. You can argue about it. The principle of one person, one vote is a good democratic principle, we think, and preferably one citizen, one vote. I would say that we are now completely in the frontier country for what is acceptable, if one assumes that one should be close to the principle of one person, one vote. There have been concrete examples of a majority of those who have voiced, who have been different from what has become a governing coalition that has formed government. Of course, as Mr Kolberg was in the Chamber, there are no states that are able to balance this 100 pst. ; that there will be one person, one vote, but we should go in that direction, get closer there, I think we should, and I will announce that in the future, the Right will assess whether there is a need for adjustments in the relevant legal provisions, perhaps as the representative Raja had in mind, that there will be a discussion related to these new regions. We'll see. But the point is, when I say that the Right is going to vote against both, that these types of adjustments have to be made completely, and they have to be made collectively. Today, there are two components, at least, but there are two components that are being discussed here today, which – a bit simplified – compensate each other. One might say – if one simplifies it a little, of course – that the area factor is used to cater for pig-grown strokes, while the principle that all residents – not citizens – should be included in the calculation of mandates, caters for more densely built strokes, because there are more immigrants in cities, etc. Ideally, you could remove both of these two, or make adjustments to both, but then it has to happen collectively, and it's not relevant for the Right to go into any of these suggestions as long as it's unclear whether both of them will have a majority. In addition, there will be a regional reform, or a local reform, which may make it relevant to see this in context. That is why we are voting against both proposals today. I want to highlight a certain distance from the arguments put forward by the representative Kolberg, that it is a very correct device that we have today. We do not believe that there is room for improvement. We believe that this has to be seen, but that it has to be seen together, completely and in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1053	The proposal for changes to the electoral system intends to provide a fairer and more representative electoral system than the current system of the Constitutional Act § 57. Today's electoral system has given many random results if you look back historically. For example, Per Borten became Prime Minister in 1965, despite the fact that the left-hand side got 50.7 pst. by the votes cast. Correspondingly repeated in 1969. In 1973 the Socialists got the bulk of the population back, but then it was the citizens who got 52.5 pst. by the votes cast. This happened again in 1977, when there was a socialist majority on the Stortinget after the bourgeois got 52.2 pst. by the votes cast. This shows that today's electoral system has a number of weaknesses. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the number of representatives should be more closely linked to the number of voting rights. This can be done by reducing the factor of land area. Since only Norwegian citizens are entitled to vote, only Norwegian citizens should be included in the basis for the distribution of the number of representatives. Today, the breakdown is made by land area and by the number of inhabitants, regardless of whether they are eligible for vote or not in the decision-making process. The Progress Party will vote primarily for the proposal by the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Øyvind Waksdal, Document 12:18 for 2011-2012. However, we will also vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Centre Party, Document 12:28 for 2011-2012, where only Norwegian citizens are included in the distribution of mandates. Even the most far-reaching proposal that eliminates the land area factor will provide surprising results — except for Finnmark, where only two of today’s five representatives would be elected if the land area factor was removed. Whichever alternative proposal was chosen, it would give a fairer result.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1070	The President then perceived it as Tom E.B. Holthe took up the suggestion he referred to that he would vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1073	In contrast to several previous cases, we are here at least here in the real situation that there are three party representatives promoting constitutional proposals and that the Progress Party is in favour of that proposal being adopted. So there's a similarity between what was said before the election and what you're doing now. However, the proposal has received far too little attention. At all, I would like to say that constitutional proposals receive far too little attention as to the crucial importance that it has, and we must try to rectify that through the discussions. The representative, Tom Holthe, said that there was a random selection of the electoral system. I would say that it will be very difficult to ensure that percentages become representatives with representative democracy when you have the barrier, for example. There will always be a rash here that can be discussed. The question is then whether the issue we are now discussing, with the area factor, is fair to correct the main principle that everyone agrees on, namely one person, one vote. The area factor is going to correct for lack of proximity to the decisions in Stortinget, and I want to give my support to what the representative Martin Kolberg said that the arrangement we have has helped Norway to be what we know Norway. This will mean a dramatic drift away from what at least the labour movement and the Central Party have been burdened and broken for many years, namely, jealous relationships and equal offers from welfare services and from the big society with regard to the people who want to exploit the entire territory called the Kingdom of Norway. This would, if it had been adopted, involve a dramatic centralization of power, and I would say that there are several big business representatives who should know their country better, should travel more in the country. I was so lucky now to experience Finnmark in the Easter on the mission of the office and traveled from the Olderdalen to Havøysund in snow flakes. There's something that makes the impression on a acidification, and that shows here how important it is that North Norway is represented as it is today. The proposal will mean that North Norway loses 5 out of 20 depositors. For Finnmark, there will be a reduction of three large-scale representatives – from five to two. We see the vast area called Finnmark, with the enormous natural resources that are there, and the development that is taking place, where the natural resources are very little benefiting Finnmark's population and coastal fisheries – so if there was a need for change, changes should be such that Finnmark should be better represented, not less represented in the Stortinget. I would therefore like to argue so strongly that the proposal of the Progress Party is rejected, and I expect the Progress Party in its freeness of speech to travel North Norway across the board and defend this here. It is a proposal that will mean that not least the fishermen in North Norway will be less represented, a group of people who already have too few figures to promote their interests, and we are looking at how the values are distributed between the coastal population and other interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1102	This draft Constitution concerns the amendment to Section 57 of the Constitution, and the purpose of the proposal is to include only Norwegian citizens in the distribution of mandates to Stortinget. The proposal can therefore be seen in the context of the previous case, which we have just debated, which proposes changes both in the calculation of the population and in the area supplement for the allocation of mandates. In the opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the majority of the Committee, to which the Greens/Greens/EFA belongs, recommends not to approve the proposal, against the members of the Committee of the Centre and the Progress Party, who support it. According to the Constitution, today the distribution of large-scale mandates is to be carried out every eight years, and it is the counties that are electoral districts. On 7 May 2012, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs published the breakdown to be applied for the 2017 enlargement elections, on the basis of which this breakdown of GDP mandates is the population of the district and county area. The proposal we are now debating would mean, if adopted, that there should no longer be the number of registered residents in an electoral district, but only residents with citizenship, along with the area of the electoral district, which will be the basis for the distribution of major mandates. So the proposal does not propose any changes in the area supplement. The proposal is justified by the fact that only Norwegian citizens can vote in elections and be elected as representatives of the population, and that it is then unfortunate that a different number of citizens form the basis for the calculation of the distribution of the accumulation mandates. In the Committee's comments, the majority, with the exception of the Progress Party and the Centre Party, stress that almost 10 pst. of the inhabitants of Norway are non-residents. According to the Central Statistical Office, the number of foreign nationals in Norway passed half a million in 2014, thus amounting to 9.9 p.m. by the population. The majority have noticed that the population without Norwegian citizenship is fairly evenly distributed in the country today, although there are variations. In the capital, non-residents make up 15.8 p.m. by the inhabitants, and other than Oslo, Rogaland, Akershus, Buskerud and Finnmark count with a high proportion of foreign nationals in relation to the population, with more than 10 pst. The lowest proportion of non-residents is in the North Trøndelag, with 6 pst. For this reason, the majority believe that our representative democracy implies that the Storting should represent all the actual inhabitants of the country, not just Norwegian citizens or those who have voting rights or only those who have voted on the election day. The majority therefore believe that it is not desirable to change the system we have today, and we are in favour of not adopting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1119	This is also a proposal that I would like to express pleasure that will not be adopted. I fully support the rapporteur's, the representative of Rasmus Hansson, presentation of this. This attempt to invoke the principle that when you are not electable, you should not count with it, but you are completely traumatized – of course – by the principle of representation. I noticed that the representative Lundteg – rightly – had a very strong commitment to the previous case, but in this case I suppose he has an equally strong commitment the other way, and that is not related. One side of the case is that we have the area coefficient that makes the adjustment one way, but if we were to leave the principle that the population should count in the distribution of mandates, it is right, as the representative Hansson says, that it is fairly evenly distributed, but there are some areas that would then definitely lose, and in particular it will apply to Oslo. It's clear that it'll tip the other way in an unfortunate way. Moreover, the democratic principle is that it is the population that counts, which is the important thing here. It is a principle that has underpinned all the thinking around Norwegian electoral law throughout Norway's modern history, and rocking it would be very unfortunate, and it could discriminate against those who are set aside. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against it. I also want to join in what the representative Skutle said in the previous case, and it is very important to deal with these things in an overall context. And the electoral system in Norway today works well, and it works well. I myself sat in the Election Law Commission, which laid the foundation for the arrangement we now have. If it's the case that you're going to go in and make significant changes to the electoral system, I think it would be right that the Stortinget once again took the initiative of a new electoral commission, in view of a review of the whole when the time had come. That's how – I think Skuttle might misunderstand me about this – that I don't think it should be a static system. I say it works well today, but we get significant changes in the population structure or otherwise in the social structure, it's clear that the electoral system must properly reflect it at the right time, but that time is not now. So what was in the previous proposal, which really contains both of those things, and what is now proposed by the Central Party, should not be adopted, and that by the Central Party should certainly not be adopted for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1128	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his work. It was only through the last revision of the distribution of mandates, under the red-green government, that this issue was made clear. There were very few who knew that the different terms had the consequences that turned out. There are probably some people who have been sitting in electoral commissions who have been aware of it, but there has been very little communication. It has been reported to have been updated, and it has been reported to have had consequences, when we in Norway have had more people who are not Norwegian citizens. And the people who are not Norwegian citizens do not live in the country of Norway. One settles more in the central districts than in the districts. It thus has an impact on the composition of the Storting, as far as the counties are concerned. Obviously, the Center Party is a member of the representative democracy, one of which is to represent all the inhabitants. As a treasurer of Buskerud, I will represent all those on the Drammen Mountain who have Turkish citizenship – who live in the Drammen – just as I will represent them on the Drammen Mountain who have Norwegian citizenship. But the case has the context that this leads to a distribution between the counties that get different. In the view of the Centre Party, we must have the same criteria for who is elected, who is elected, and the basis for the distribution of mandates between counties, i.e. Norwegian citizens. Citizenship gives responsibility, and it gives justice, and the Center Party is very careful that someone here should keep it. Norwegian citizenship gives rights, and it gives obligations – and it is very central to having it. So our proposal is very close. It's a proposal that most people didn't think was necessary, because you had an understanding of what was in Section 57, that it shouldn't lead to the unintended effect that we've now had. On that basis, I would like to make a clear reference to proposal No. One from the Center Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1141	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1144	This must be done quickly. As I explained in the previous paragraph, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal for the Central Party that only Norwegian citizens should be included in the distribution of mandates. The Constitution should be amended in such a way that, in the event of major elections, only Norwegian nationals are included in the distribution of mandates. I don't have to elaborate on it any further. I think the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has explained it in a very good way, so I'm going to join it in a big way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1165	This case concerns the draft constitution of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Eirin Sund, Truls Wickholm, Marianne Marthinsen and Jette F. Christensen on the amendment of a number of paragraphs of the Constitution to introduce the Republic as a form of government in Norway. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and member of the Committee Jette F. Christensen of the Labour Party, indicate that similar proposals for the introduction of the Republic have been promoted and dealt with on a number of occasions in the Grand Duchy. The proposals, which constitute a fundamental breach of the Norwegian state form, have been rejected at all previous deleveraging treatments. The majority indicate that the monarchy as a state form has a more than a thousand-year tradition in Norway. In the context of the Union resolution in 1905, a referendum was held on Norway to remain a kingdom. The new king who was proposed wanted the people to say theirs – if they wanted him as king – before he answered yes. The result of the referendum showed a clear majority for the proposed king. The majority of the Committee would point out that if, in the future, it would be appropriate to change the form of governance, it should be assessed in the majority's view whether it is appropriate to refer the matter to the public in an advisory referendum. However, the polls that have been carried out in recent years show that the monarchy has a broad population upturn, and there is therefore no signal to indicate a change in the position taken by the Stortinge on this issue. On the above basis, the majority of the Committee would recommend that the proposal submitted be rejected. I assume that members of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the member Jette F. Christensen of the Workers' Party themselves explain their reasons for consulting the proposal. I recommend this committee's recommendation, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1187	I would like, on behalf of the majority of the Labour Party, to present our views on the matter of the introduction of the Republic as a form of government in Norway. We agree with the plural and say that we are not in favour of the proposal. Proposals for republics have been rejected by the Stortinge in all previous treatments. In 1905 there was a constant referendum about Norway still to be a royal example. It was known as plural for it. The choice we made then, by choosing to have a king, turned out to be a lucky choice. We cannot mention Norway during the Second World War without the important role of King Haakon VII. The first government of the Labour Party was created as a result of the democratic desire of the same king that the Labour Party should form a government. He played an important role. It appears from polls that the monarchy has great uprisings in the people. It implies that there is no signal from the people that there is a desire to change the form of government in Norway. But I agree with the proposers that one should ask questions as to whether it is right that the position as head of state is something that can be inherited, and that this does not reflect our ideals of democracy and equal opportunities. There are few who, on a principle basis, believe that it is right that a head of state's approach to power should come through inheritance. But what it's widely agreed to is that it's the democratic processes, based on secret and free choices, which should be the basis for the exercise of power. The whole social-democratic idea of the model of society in Norway is based on it. In Norway's modern history, our cultural, social and economic development is based on democratic governance. A well-organised and living democracy is an institution for a stable and humanistic society. In the historical perspective, we know that there has been a lot of resistance, but today we can say that all are basically some about this. I also mean that if we change governance once in the future, there must be a referendum on it. Summer up, the monarchy is strong in the people. There is no demand from the people for any change in the form of government, and then I see no need to adopt a constitutional change here, which may come into force after a referendum and after any distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1204	I will not spend very long time in this matter. The right-hand position should be well known. It's in Right's ideology not to repair what's not destroyed. You don't have to change what works. The monarchy in Norway, with the device we have on it, works. There are many fundamental objections, but the scale is whether the people think the form of state we have is working – and the people think it is. We have measurements that indicate that 80-90 pst. is satisfied with the device we have in state form today. There are many – also in the Right – who believe that in addition to the ideological nature of the monarchy in Norway and the way in which it has been set up in Norway, a fine institution, an institution that provides stability, and an institution that makes society better than if we had not had that institution. I would also like to say, as both Mr Eldegard and the rapporteur have pointed out, that there are, of course, major fundamental challenges with an inherited monarchy system – clearly and clearly. I don't think I need to elaborate on it any further. Even a giant representative like myself, who could tend to call himself Republicans, if the form is good, could say that the state form is something that the people have to decide, anyway. The fact that an intellectual elite has to three a form of state downwards on the people, contrary to its will, has seen examples of many times, and it has rarely worked very well. That's why I also want to highlight that I am in favour of all the comments that the Right is behind, and I'm going to vote with the rest of the Right Group today, of course. Then you can ask yourself: if I believe that it is the people who are going to decide the state form in Norway – why not vote in favour of a referendum, why not let the people give this signal in a referendum? The answer to that is very simple: there is no order for it from the people. It's such a clear majority that having a referendum now is wasting resources and spending time completely wrong. Nor is it the case that a republican system should be the perfect one. It can't be the case that referendums are to be held in France, the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany every four or every eight years to confirm or disclaim the fact that the state you always have is the perfect one. Such referenda must come when there are currents in the people who order it and who ask for it, and it is not. Therefore, even one who can tend to call themselves Republicans on a principle basis can vote against this proposal that is being addressed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1219	It is in the year 111 years since there was a referendum on Norway to remain a kingdom after the Union resolution in 1905. The draft Constitution we are discussing today is about asking the government to prepare a new referendum with a view to changing the form of governance from monarchy to republic. The arguments put forward are that today's monarchy is a past survival of an authoritarian government, an anachronism that is bad enough as a democratic symbol. Although there have been no referendums on still kingship in the years that have passed since 1905, many polls have measured the position of the population in the state form of Norway. In one of the last ones, it was just about. 20 pst. who replied that they wanted the introduction of the Republic, while 70 pst. wished to retain the monarchy. So high a proportion of people who are positive to the monarchy tell us that the royal house has a strong popular legitimacy. As a resident of Norway, it is in no way felt that the monarchy is outside the control of the elected people. The King's House solves the problems it's set up. We've got a modern monarchy, which in no way represents an urgent social problem. The monarchy is the opposite of historical awareness and creates long lines, which can be good to have for a country and a population. The arguments about the monarchy as anachronism in a democratic society seem difficult to see, as we feel the kingdom works in our country. In fact, what we have today is a constitutionally restricted monarchy, with popular mandate and democratic control. From our point of view, in the Christian People's Party, we cannot therefore see that removing the monarchy will mean any expansion of the regime. The royal house works along the long lines. A royal house like ours in Norway is involved in building a national identity, which is actually below and above the political level. There are many good reasons why fast-changing societies need some long lines and traditions. The Norwegian monarchy, in our view, represents some important historical traditions that create pride and identity, work together and at the same time are well anchored and subject to democratic, popular control. For the Christian People's Party it is therefore not relevant to support the proposal submitted in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1234	The kingdom works satisfactorily. The King shall be a collective mark for all. The king must be king both for the Norwegian people and for the Sami people. The best tradition with the kingdom in Norway is that the king is just solidarity with his people. To put it plainly: King and Crown Prince must therefore act both in sail boots and in ordinary rubber boots in order to understand all, and by experience, better understand the everyday lives of their people. One shall participate in international work carried out by Norway and in national work. One should participate in the same way in the work that happens in our periphery, as in the center of the country. One shall participate and understand the different professions — the service professions, the industrial professions and the primary industries. One should try to gain insight into our entire working and business life. It is reasonable to expect that the kingdom will also be anchored in the established institutions in Norway, for example our public schoolwork. The centre party is in favour of the monarchy and will vote against all the constitutional proposals for the introduction of the Republic as a form of government in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1245	President! I have the sense of presidents. They have a mandate behind them that comes through a democratic election, based on popular rule. It may well be that a family with particularly noble blood could do a good job as a staging president. The work could be inherited – after all, there is a lot of ceremonial learning: it is a rule of law one must be able to do, one should represent the whole people, and there are important representation tasks to be done – and it is not just. If we'd rather have the Grand President's office go to inheritance instead of choosing you, President, most people would probably settle for it. Perhaps even ours could be popular — and why fix something that is not destroyed? But, President, you have a democratic mandate behind you, fortunately, because that's what's basically right, and because that's how we do it in Norway with public office and public power positions – with one exception, the very top office. Why? That's because that's the way it is. But in my view, this basic conservative hold is not a good enough argument – far from it. The monarchy as an institution may be happy at an emotional level, but one cannot escape the fact that it rests on a completely decisive arrow: a fundamental mistrust of the even citizen of this country. The distrust is expressed in two ways, either by a belief that there is not one single person in this country – not one single person among 5,213,985 Nordics – who is qualified to be head of state, other than those who happen to have been born into the mansion of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg. The other way in which the distrust is expressed is that if the monarchs think that there can actually be qualified candidates in this country, they have nevertheless argued that through a democratic process the people will not be able to know that the person, that one cannot trust that the people will make a good choice. Such a hold can be called a lot, but the expression of a special democratic mindset is hardly. In addition to the principle, I believe that it is a problem that the majority of people today are going to confirm their views on a number of constitutional formulations that the majority of people don't really believe. There is no one in this room who thinks that the king is holy, as established in the Constitution § 5. I do not hope that there are many in this room who actually think that the king should not have religious freedom, as stated in Grundlova § 4, or who actually think that a prince or a princess of inheritance should not be able to marry without the consent of the monarch, as stated in Section 36. Good representatives, they don't really mean it, so why should it be in the Constitution? Is it because it's always been there? I would like to add yet another legend in the Constitution that I suspect is that Stortinget does not really mean – even if I am a little uncertain – simply § 48, which states that if the kingset is extinct, or – more realistically – if the heirs claim the right to the throne, the Stortinget will choose a new monarch. It says it in that paragraph. We're going to choose a new monarch, dear representatives. So the size has to find a person and say that the person is to be regent in Norway, and all his descendants are to be the same. Would we do that? If so, who would we have pointed out? I don't think we would. I think the Storting would find in all its wisdom a system in which a qualified person points out as head of state. But he would not have been in office forever – he would be the subject of the democratic exercise we call choice. Then the question is, what is it really waiting for? It's apparently no hurry. 93 pst. by all the North people think that King Harald is doing a good job. I'm among them. So mean at the base of 20 pst. that we should introduce the Republic. I'm also among them. I mention it because the blatant and dominant argument for the monarchy that has been expressed in all the previous speakers' speeches is that the institution has great popular support. However, most of them will continue to do so, including: The representative Skutle – that in principle the monarchy is a common form of government, and that if one were to start again, one might have chosen a little different. I also believe that the plurality in this hall means – probably a large plurality. So actually, this multiple would be against monarchy if it didn't have much popular support. So the principle that is the basis for the Constitution is to follow the existing community. It can well in itself also call a principle approach, perhaps best summed up by the French politician Alexandre Auguste Ledru-Rollin, who said, "There goes my people!" I have to figure out where they're going, so I can lease them. Then you might object that in a way, the fundamental objections to the monarchy are only formalities. To that it is first of all to say that something can be fundamentally crazy without having a great practical significance. Secondly, I think it's practical and ethically doubtful that the majority in a society should impose on young children a certain course of life towards becoming monarchs, with all the personal focus it brings. A Norwegian prince or a Norwegian princess of inheritance can actually do little good with her life other than what we, as big communities, have ordered to do, because of his or her origin. Then the discussion of the monarchy is not just a theoretical exercise, although I realize that the proposal we are now discussing is hardly getting any more. In less calm times than now, in times of crisis, a monarch will have an important role, take important decisions and exercise power. Then the point is not whether a head of state in such a situation takes the right or wrong decision, the point is – at least from my side – that I am not willing to trust genes at such a time. I'm not willing to rely on the quality of the blue blood to decide important choices for a nation. I want to be there and decide who should have that kind of position. I want to evaluate them by force of example and ability, not family ties. That the majority of the population in practice assumes that the genes and also the senses of one family are better than everyone else has, forever, stands for me as something special. It is very difficult to find historical examples of countries that have acted better as monarchies than they have later done as republics. There must be little doubt as to the way progress is being made. When, in 1905, the Michelsen government, against all international trends, advised people to vote in favour of establishing a Norwegian monarchy, the Left Minister of State Gunnar Knudsen later went out of the government in protest. He couldn't stand the fact that a government in a modern democracy could figure out going into order that the position as head of state would be inherited. Nor have many monarchies been established since then. To quote King Farouk I of Egypt: Soon there will be only five Kings left: the King of Spades, the King of Clubs, the King of Hearts, the King of Diamonds – and the King of England. We still live full in the Kingdom of Norway in 2016. Here we do not discuss who are the best candidates to be our foremost representatives – here we are simply discussing whether or not they should be elected by us. That shouldn't be a very difficult question. I am therefore going to vote in favour of the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1273	I just want – very briefly – to take the floor in this debate to make it clear what the Greens have written in the vote on this proposal to change the form of government in Norway. The rapporteur's presentation could perhaps be misunderstood by the fact that the Greens support the proposal to change the form of governance. We don't. We are going to vote against – at this stage – the proposal to wind up the monarchy. The main reason for this is that the Green Party has not yet taken a thorough stand on the issue of Norway should maintain the monarchy or introduce the Republic, and we have not participated in the public debate on this issue, so that our voters have not been involved in any decision and have seen any discussion on where we stand in this matter. Now we have had a good – albeit perhaps repetitive – discussion today on this issue, and I have to say that it is entertaining to hear the representative Rotevatn have fun at the expense of the Constitution on this very question. But until further notice, the Green Party obviously places the emphasis on the fact that there is no order from the Norwegian people to change our governance. That means that we expect the Greens in the future to have a discussion about the form of government in Norway, about the possible abolition of the monarchy, and we will take into account what is happening in the opinion. Then we will come back when – we expect – the Socialist Left Party and possibly others repeat this proposal, and we are confident that we will have the opportunity to discuss it several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1280	I represent the minority in the Committee, in the Labour Party and in this Chamber. I do that because not everyone can take a political stance to be like, because something is fun or because it's going well. These are the three arguments most often put forward by rojalists. I'll go through them. First: it is a majority for Norway to be a monarchy. That's why you want to take a position where you're also in favour of it. Think about political historical craftsmanship was met with that attitude. Imagine if politicians throughout history had chosen what position to take from what most people thought. Then we had not had a lot of voting rights for ladies in this country. Another argument that is being put forward, which has been put forward today, is that we have had a referendum on this before. The representative Skuttle expressed concern about, and he did not want an intellectual elite to have a form of government at the head of people. I agree. What did Norway look like in 1905? How were schooling and wealth distributed in Norway in 1905? How were the opportunities to act in the same way and shape their own lives? Who had the voting rights in 1905? The vote at that time was really a poll or a poll among men in Norway about who would be king – not what state form we should have. The third argument that is often put forward, which has been put forward here today, is that the royal family is lovely, and we like them. I agree with both. The royal family in Norway shoots well. This is not a counterproposal against them personally, the way they behave and shoot their job. I'm not among the Republicans who want to judge the way the royal family behaves, dress or dress. The reason is that I don't expect a royal family to be popular. It's not related to being royal and being popular. It's a totally unrealistic expectation, even though someone's grandfather took the trick some time. One argument is that it's going so well. When I discuss the monarchy or state form with monarchs, this very often finally comes as a main argument, as a dot: it's going well now. There are no other areas in which I hear my political colleagues taking this boundless relaxed approach to a matter where you see fundamental problems, where you see potential problems that lie ahead in time, and where you have prominent counter-representations, which are also presented. What's strange is that if you miss that relaxation of yourself in your political life -- I can see that sometimes you do, there's a lot of high shoulders in a case -- you choose the state headset as an area to exercise that relaxation. I'm a Republican because I believe in the People's Government. I'm a Republican because I believe in democracy. I'm Republicans because I believe and believe that power positions are to be earned through trust and not given through inheritance. I am a Republican because I believe that the way we establish governance in Norway should be based on the ability of the people to choose their representatives. I'm Republicans because I think it's right that the Constitution should reflect the statehood of Norway and democratic values. And I want what's in the Constitution to be true. I will challenge any representative in this room who is a monarch and feels the call, and who has the answer, to come up here and explain how, in what way and what it means that the king is holy. There are different forms of republic, and the proposers therefore ask the government to order an inquiry into what will best suit Norway and submit it to a referendum. Norway is a country that sets very high values of democracy, popular government, popular trust and representativeness. The state of Norway should be the symbol of it, not the exception. I would like to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1303	Then the representative Jette F. Christensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1307	I'm also one of the representatives representing the minority in the hall here today. I am one of those who represents the minority in the Labour Party in this matter, and one of the proposers. I think the representative Christensen described the past in an excellent way, considering how we've come to where we've come in terms of women's voting rights and other things, so I shouldn't say it again. But I have to say that this is actually one of the most difficult issues I debate, not because I think the content of the matter is difficult, but because every time you debate it – whether it's here, at home around the family table or at Mega – it becomes a discussion about feelings. I have very much respect and understanding that there are many feelings associated with the royal house and the monarchy, but it is difficult to discuss the matter on a principle basis, which is why I mean what I mean, and the reason why I am concerned about the matter. I have great respect for people's perception that the monarchy of national identity is important. I also have great respect for the fact that there are historical events – World War II or other events – where the royal family and the royal house have meant far too many. We have – as I feel I have to say every time, the representative Jette Christensen also said – a wonderful royal family, king and queen, and we have a fantastic crown princely family, which is most likely to take over the throne. As the representative Eirin Sund, I also know something about what the royal family has meant in times of crisis. I didn't live during World War II or just after it, but I know something about what the royal family meant after July 22, so that they're an institution that matters to people, I have a lot of respect for. That they have a strong popular anchoring, both I see and respect. But what I'm experiencing is that it seems to be inhibiting the debate on a new form of governance that there is a quick discussion about people. If we're going to move on, we have to take the matter out of line with discussions about people, because the debate is not about people, but about whether a hereditary monarchy is a suitable form of governance in our time. I mean, it's not. Sooner or later, the question of a new form of governance will come up with full weight. I find it strange that so many backs escape a proper investigation of the option, which could make us better prepared to make changes in our state form. Then we could get a discussion that was real, and that was about the matter, and we would have a good basis for, for example. to be able to decide on the matter later. Power positions may not be hereditary. It's one of the things that to me is basically incredibly important. We live in 2016. We are a modern democracy. It has been a long time since royal persons found their companions among other royal houses. I think that's a very good development, and I also think that the consequences sooner or later have to be that one has to change state form. Then I have to say to the representative Skutle, who uses the expression as if it were the intellectual elite who is driving this forward: I would say that I am quite intellectual, but I will probably also claim – and many with me – that I probably do not belong to the intellectual elite or come from it, because these are questions that are discussed among reasonably common people, around the tables both here and there, so it is not an intellectual elite that promotes this. To the fact that people don't want this, and that it's a nice arrangement we have, I think to myself – and say to the representative Skutle – that there's a lot of people don't want, as both we in the Workers' Party, and in the Right for that matter, travels like discussions, because we think it's basically important discussions. I sleep well at night with the monarchy and the royal house. My mother is furious at me because I'm driving and talking about this, because she's one of those people who think we're doing so well, everything is going so well, and the king and queen are good people, so now just leave things as they are. I don't want to take anything from anyone, but we live, as I said, in 2016. We should explore different options, which would be a natural end point for the democratization that started in 1814. We should have a head of state elected by the people in elections, and where the love of the royal house – or perhaps the fear of who might become president – would not lead the discussion. Perhaps it would be that the Grand President was the real president, elected by the people. It could be something I might have landed on after an investigation. In the end, our job as politicians – at least we who sit here in the hall – is to raise fundamental discussions and to dry up the discussions. I believe that is our duty. I'm going to be down with others here today. I am going to vote in favour of the proposal because it is democratically important in principle. I'm Republicans just because I believe in the People's Government and the People's elected by the people in elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1326	The Constitution was not just written for sunshine and good times. It may have been easy to forget in the very good times we've had behind us in the last few decades. It may also have lowered our alertness slightly to the actual weight, importance and function of the Constitution. I think we've seen signs of that here in Stortinget, too, for example. when the Storting seriously considered introducing the concept of ‘family is a basic entity in society’ as a new wording of the Constitution. You should not take lightly the basic rules of the game of society and our democracy. The Constitution should not be taken lightly. This is not least the question of state form. This is the second time, and in the second period, I participate in this debate myself in the Storting, and it strikes me how unbearably easy it seems for the majority of the Storing in the sign of convenience to hold on to a form of government that deprives a family of the fundamental freedoms that everyone else takes for granted, and by which all of us others are protected in the form of constitution, while everyone else on the other hand is told that there is a difference in people, and there is a difference in the bottoms of the bloodline. Is the royal house's popularity a principle-sustainable argument for adding five million Nordics' eyes, attention and expectations to a little girl like our future head of state – a girl who will never be able to choose what she will be, and what god she will believe in, such things as all of us take for granted? The last time the Republic was widely discussed in Norway, without going into completely uninteresting discussions about dresses, purses and money use, was when our enthronement found its love in life. Then the newly in love couple would be on the pedestal for all the people. Their love was to be assessed by all throughout the country and condemned by those who felt it throughout the country. Our enthronement had to ask permission to marry the love of his life. None of us can. That's exactly what I think I'm saying a little bit. One might say that today's state form works very well – it does. One might say that today's head of state is very capable – and I fully agree with that. But is it enough to defend that a pinched human being, because they have the blood they have, should both be charged with expectations and duties that no other human being is charged with, and have privileges and power that no other human being can have access to? That a thousand-year-long feudal tradition and a referendum from a time when women were without democratic rights in Norway, is the majority's foremost argument for the monarchy as a state form, only confirms the whole point: there are limits to our democracy, both before and now, and since we live in quite good times, that's quite fine. It ends in a limited power analysis that goes on again. To say, as the majority do, that the power of the royal house is unproblematic because it's not formal is to turn the problem upside down. It just underlines what kind of anachronism we're dealing with. If you ignore the symbolic effect and keep your head of state unelected, ignore the symbolic effect it has on people in countries who have completely different experiences with what a royal house really is, and ignore the difference between people – actual, real people in Norway – that it brings, it is still basically impossible to defend that exactly the most important position in our state form is not to be chosen. At some point, Norway becomes a republic. It would have been so good for the country's democratic conversation, for the level of debate on our state form here in the Great Britain, for the royal family itself, and for all of us, whether that debate is taken now, on a principle and tidy basis, and does not force itself as a result of the possibly falling popularity and uprising of the royal house in the future. That's when you get a personal debate, that's when you get a non-prince debate, and that's when you get a debate that will be bad and difficult for the whole country. That is why I am going to vote in favour of the proposal today. I know the majority isn't going to do that, but I hope at least that the majority, without the slightly demeaning tone of the representative Hansson, and without just saying that our royal house is popular, finished talking, can explain in principle why democracy in Norway is going to persist with a form of state that is not democratic, and that makes a difference to people on no other basis than what kind of blood they have in the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1347	There has been an interesting debate to listen to, although it has contained certain repetitive elements for the one who remembers four years ago. Once again, there is reason to pour some cold water into the blood of the Republicans, as they themselves have referred to themselves as today. I think we should remind each other that the community that a nation forms is something far more than the political community. I also think I hear an undertone that in the political room it is understood that it is political Norway that is Norway. I think it'll be a very clever consideration. A country is more than its political institutions, but where power is to be exercised, it must be political institutions under democratic control. But one sometimes forgets that there are other sectors, other areas of society, that feel better represented by an apolitical head of state than by what is the alternative, which we really haven't heard so much about, because maybe it hasn't always had the same topicality. But what is this alternative to what we know, what just has this constant and stabilizing in it, even when it's actually crucial hours? This country also knows that in such a context, King Haakon had symbolic power beyond what was already decided politically. In this context, I think it should be stressed that a country, a nation, also consists of culture and continuity and other interdependence forces than those that politicians can represent. We have a common story that can hardly be promised or allowed in retrospect. We share a myth of origin that represents a notion of what Norway is. Here the royal house plays a very central role, but it is not party political. That's why some representatives are going to mix visibility and power. It is believed, or submitted, that those who are on the top of the attention pyramid are those who sit with the most power. But then you have to explain how having a monarchy has prevented the natural transition from, for example. voting rights only for men to vote for women – subsequently extended to voting rights for all groups. It has had nothing to do with the vision of the monarchy, because the monarchy has followed in time and shown its own constraint. Now, if we think that a state head should be able to cope with the unpredictable political processes of party politics, we would be given a more snapshot of the conditions of power in political life, and we would not achieve what the monarchy has given us so far, namely, the mentality of stability and the accumulation of possible dividing lines in society. So no politically chosen figure would have that trait of letting as many people feel represented as that royal house has clear and powerful. Then, of course, I'm going to add, as the Republicans do, that it hasn't been immaterial which people have played these roles, and who have also contributed wisely in the way they have played their roles. The next time, because I'm assuming that if SV is represented after the next election, they're going to make the same proposal, I'm going to recommend them to look a little bit more at what is the alternative to a monarchy. Because it's not a president. In that case, it would be another representative of the executive, and it could have been the government itself, without having to choose a president as head. So finally this little heartache: Those who have had the sharpest tone today, and who have been a bit academic in their review of arguments – it has been interesting to hear – are just the representatives who have not managed to convince their own parties of the wisdom of what they say. The representative Christensen let the whip sweep over us all who don't mean the same thing as her. She can start by creating a majority in her own party. I have not seen that the Workers' Party has rewritten the transition to the Republic in its programme, but you might start there. The same applies to the representative Rotevatn. We'll see when the parties come. The only party that acts in this respect is neat and predictable, that's SV. For they argue that they present themselves in the elections, and I think that’s real – that’s what you have on the party programme, that’s what you’re in favour of, and that’s what you’re asking for. As far as that connection is concerned, it looks like the royal house will survive SV, maybe the left, too, we don't know that. Otherwise, when you first attack anachronism, I have to give a little bit to SV. They call themselves socialist in the name. It is in our time a complete anachronism. So if you think about what the socialist presidents have represented by the prosperity of humanity, you have to think of it as a kind of anachronism, but maybe this is the day of a certain anachronism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1364	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1370	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1377	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Jette F. Christensen on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Document 12:31 – Draft Constitution of Per-Kristian Foss, Martin Kolberg, Marit Nybakk, Jette F. Christensen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Trine Skei Grande on the fundamental laws of economic, social and cultural human rights [[Rome Number IX — Limitations on the Fundamental Rights]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1420	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Left, proposal No. 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:26 [[fundamental attachment of municipal maritime administration]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1445	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:5 [[2011-2012]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1475	The Committee's recommendation for II is deleted, as set out below. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1494	The representative of Mr Thorheim has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1497	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Advance Party is releasing the group in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1502	The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will subsidize III. The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have also announced that they will vote in favour. We vote by roll call, and the plug starts with agent no. 5 for the West Agder province, Norunn Tveiten Benestad. Those who vote in favour of the vote answer yes, and that applies to all, except the Advance Party, who have set their representatives free. The President will advise the representatives to remain silent during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1535	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 12:37 on the Constitutional Law proposal of Carl I. Hagen adopted by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on amendments to the Basic Law § 71 [[to allow exemptions from meeting the Stortinge]] [[2011-2012]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1566	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Tom E.B. Holthe on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 12:1 in Bookkeeping and Nynorsk — Roman numeral I, option 2 A and Roman numeral II, option 2 — acceptable». [[2011-2012]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1597	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Tom E.B. Holthe on behalf of the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:18 [[Selection system]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1628	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:28 [[only Norwegian citizens are to be included in the distribution of mandates]] It's going to be grazed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1644	The appointment of the Committee shall cease, in accordance with the following: The vote will take place at the next voting time. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e1651	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Jette F. Christensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the representative himself. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Title: the Constitution of Option B of the Kingdom of Norway– the Constitution of Norway§ 1 is replaced by the following: Option B B. About the Executive Power – B. Whether the Executive Power § 3 is replaced by the following: Option B [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Paragraph 20, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Option 1 B The Government has the right to pardon offenders after the verdict has been given. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] The offender may choose to receive the mercy of the government or to submit to the penalty imposed. – In the government meeting, the government has the right to grant mercy to criminals after they have fallen. The offender can choose to accept mercy from the government or take the sentence. Paragraph 21 is replaced by the following: Option B The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the State Secretaries may be dismissed by the Government without judgment. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] The same shall apply to the officials employed by the Government Offices or by the Foreign Service, civilian superiors, directors of regiments and other military corps, commanders of fasteners and maximum commanders of warships. – The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the Secretaries of State may be dismissed by the Government without judgment. The same shall apply to the officials appointed by the Government Offices or by the Foreign Office, to the civil supremacy persons, to the chief of regiments and other military corps, to the commanders of fastenings and to the highest commanders of warships. Paragraph 23 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Option 1 B The Government may distribute orders to whom it will, to reward excellent profits, which must be made public. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] The Government may not assign any rank or title other than that entailed by an office. It does not exempt anyone from the common duties and burdens of its citizens, nor does it confer the right of priority on State officials. Officials dismissed in grace retain the title and rank they held in office. This does not apply to the members of the Government or to the State Secretaries. – The government can give orders to whoever it wants to be, to pass on to the public from the point of view of profit. The government cannot assign a rank and title other than that of an official. It does not exempt anyone from the duties and duties of citizens, nor does it confer the right to government office. Officials who are given the separation in grace are given the title and rank they held in office. This does not apply to the members of the Government or the State Secretaries. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Paragraph 24 is deleted. The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 25 shall be replaced by the following: Option 1 B The Government shall have the highest command of the State’s defence authority. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – The government has the highest command of the defence power of the state. Paragraph 26 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Option 1 B The Government shall have the right to convene troops, start war in defense of the country and conclude peace, conclude and terminate international agreements and send and receive agents. – The government has the right to call troops, start war in defense of the country and end peace, enter into and sign international agreements and send and accept missionaries. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Section 27 is replaced by the following: Option B Paragraph 68 of the first sentence shall be replaced by the following: Option 1 B The Grand Duchy generally meets in the capital of the State on the first working day of October of each year, unless the government chooses another city in the kingdom because of exceptional circumstances, such as hostile attack or infectious disease. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – The biggest city usually meets in the capital on the first weekday of October every year, if not the government because of unusual circumstances, such as hostile action or contagious disease, choose another city in the kingdom. Paragraph 69 is replaced by the following: Option 1 B As soon as the Stortinget has formed, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister will open it up, the negotiations with a speech about the state of the kingdom and the circumstances in which he or she in particular wishes to direct the attention of the Stortinget. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – As soon as the Stortinget has formed, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister opens up to it, the negotiations with a talk about the state of the kingdom and the issues that he or she would like to make the Stortinget pay attention to. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Paragraph 74, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Option B When the negotiations of the Grand Duchy are opened, the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government have the right to meet in the Grand Duchy and, in line with the members of the Grand Duchy, participate in the negotiations when they are held for open doors, but without voting. In the cases dealt with for closed doors, this only applies when the Storting permits it. – Once the negotiations in Stortinget are open, the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government have the right to meet in Stortinget and are similar to the members who take part in the negotiations when they are held open, but without a voice. In matters that are treated for connected doors, this only applies when the Storting grants permission to do so. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Paragraph 75(e) is deleted. Paragraph 75(f) shall become point (e) and shall be replaced by the following: Option B (e) to submit to the minutes of the government meetings and all public reports and papers; - (e) to submit to the minutes of the government meetings and all public messages and papers; Paragraph 75(g), which becomes point (f), is amended as follows: Option B (g) to be able to give any instruction to meet separately in state cases; [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Paragraph 75(i) to (m) becomes Paragraph 75(h) to (k) of the first paragraph of Section 76 shall be replaced by the following: Option 1 B Any law shall first be proposed on the Stortinget, either by a depositor or by the government of one of its members. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – All legislative proposals shall be made first at Stortinget, either by a majority representative or by the government of one of its members. Paragraph 77 shall be replaced by the following: Option 1 B Within this period the Prime Minister shall notify the Government of the decision of the law which has not already been decided on in the name of the Government, under the seal of the Kingdom of Norway and in the following words: «The Norwegian Government shall announce that we have been presented with the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on the date of sale: [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] [[except those in Section 79]] [[following the decision]] – § 81 All laws are issued in the name of the government, under the Norwegian national seal and in the following words: «The Norwegian Government announces that the Stortinget has submitted to us a date-set date which reads as follows: [[as close as they are to § 79]] [[here comes the decision]] Paragraph 82, second sentence, is replaced by the following: Option 1 B No member of the Government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – No member of the government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Stortinget or to a large body. Paragraph 86, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Option 2 B The Court of Justice shall, in the first and last instance, rule on matters brought by the Grand Duchy against members of the Government, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy, or the President, on criminal or other illegal matters when they have breached their constitutional obligations. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] – The Court of First and Last Instance shall judge in the cases brought by the Grand Duchy against members of the Government, the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy, or the President, for a criminal or other unlawful relationship when they have violated their constitutional obligations. [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] In Section 86, third paragraph, the third sentence is replaced by the following: Option 2 B A member of the Government or the Stortinget, or the President, may not be elected as a member of the Riksrecht. – A member of the Government or the Stortinget, or the President, may not be elected as a member of the Riksrecht. [[now §121]] [[(bokmal and new Norwegian):]] Section 112 is replaced by the following: Option 1 B
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2235	The representative, Mr Kolberg, has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2238	This is not an explanation of the first vote, but of the vote associated with the setting itself. I recommend the Workers' Group to vote in favour of the setting, but also reminds me that the group has been released on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2243	The representative of Abid Q. Raja has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2246	If Trine has asked for the word, then... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2251	It is always reassuring when Trine has asked for the word in such contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2254	Thank you so much for having me, President. I would like to inform you that the Group of the Left too has been set free in this matter. So we'll probably have a slightly different vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2259	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jette F. Christensen, and it is usually voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2275	The Socialist Left Party and some in the Workers' Party and the Left shall vote against. The rest of you have to vote in favour. The voting boards showed that there were 136 votes in favour and 26 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.06.06]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2284	President, my vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2289	Then we take the vote again. The vote boards showed that 131 votes were cast in favour and 26 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.07.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2298	President, this time my vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2303	There are several people who have not registered their vote, so we will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-31.ana.ud1517e2367	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
