ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e114	The representatives Janne Sjelmo Nordås and Rasmus Hansson, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: for Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck for the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen for Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland for the South-Trundellag County: Marvin Wiseth for Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth From 30 May to 10 June in order to participate in the strategic crisis management course at the Defence College, an application has been made by the Workers' Group for a permit for the representative of Gunvor Eldegard. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative of Gunvor Eldegard, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates of Akershu County are convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: Mani Husseini 30 May to 02. ==References====External links== June
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e177	Mani Hussaini is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e183	The President will propose the election of two presidents for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli and Lise Christoffersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Lise Christoffersen are unanimously elected as presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e193	The representative, Mr Renate Håheim, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e196	On behalf of Martin Henriksen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kirsti Bergstø, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I am delighted to propose a national centre of expertise for youth work, youth assistance and youth information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e201	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 27 May 2016: ‘Changes among the State Secretaries. In the Council of State for H. M. The King held at Oslo Castle on 27 May 2016 at 9.30 p.m. 11.00 is hereby decided: State Secretary Fredrik Färber is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary for the State Council of Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance with effect from 30 May 2016. Political adviser Petter Kvinge Tvedt is appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. Political adviser Roy Angelvik is appointed State Secretary for State Council Per Sandberg in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the current map is taken up for consideration, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e234	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e241	This is a day of joy for many. Today we adopt a law that makes it easier to change legal gender. There has long been criticism of current practices, and it is now less invasive and easier to change legal gender. Today, the Tax Directorate is informed by Oslo University Hospital that the conversion of gender has taken place. Before this message is given, the individual has been through extensive treatment and investigation. It concerns psychiatric evaluation, hormonal therapy, surgical intervention and sterilisation. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Labour Party, now support the creation of an application procedure for those over 16 years who want to change legal gender. If you are between 6 and 16, you must have one of your parents' consent. We also support changing the name law so that those who change sex can change their name in line with the gender they are now, if they wish. The majority also support the formulation of the application using a self-declaration model, to be handled by the public register authority, i.e. the tax office. The same majority also considers that a reflection period is not necessary. Several hearing bodies are critical of a period of reflection imposed, and the majority agree that they do not want to. We believe that those who want to change legal gender have reflected and thought long enough about this decision – perhaps for many years. This is a personal conviction that we believe the authorities must accept at the time of the application and not add a further stone to the burden of doubting the decision by having to reflect again. We believe, like the Red Barna and the Psychologists' Association, that the individual is fully capable of making this decision without the state asking for an extra round. The opinions of the majority of the Committee on the simplification of the procedure for the change of legal gender are in line with many consultation opinions. I would like to mention Skeiv Youth, the Association for Transpersonals, Sex and Society, the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Biotechnology Council, Amnesty, the Norwegian Medical Association and the Health Directorate. These are heavy players in Health-Norway. The majority in the Committee also consider that there is no need for further impact assessment – something that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party call for. We believe that these heavy actors, who have spoken during the hearing, and the Ministry's legislative proposals are strong enough in themselves, and we believe that further assessments will only extend the process. In the case of those under 16 years of age where one of the parents disagrees with changing sex, an application has been submitted to the County of Oslo and Akershus, which is also an appeal body. The left has proposed the development of a separate procedure when not both parents support the young person’s decision to change legal gender. This applies to persons between 12 and 16 years of age. We see that this can be discussed, but the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party nevertheless believe that we need to have some more practice with the law before we can support the Left's proposal that this can be further assessed. The Committee is concerned that children should be consulted and that there should be a good dialogue with children when considering changing legal gender. There are also instances where assistance can be provided for such dialogues. Finally, I would like to say that this law is groundbreaking for those involved, and we are in line with a few countries in Europe, among others. Denmark and the Netherlands. I want to end with a quote from Skeiv Youth, who says in his hearing statement: This ‘is about the right to exist as the sex you are’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e264	Today, a broad majority will be in favour of a change in the law on legal gender. The change means that today’s demands for medical diagnosis and treatment to allow people to live as they are, with all of them, fall out of Norwegian law. That means that Mathea can be Mathea in her passport, and not Mats. That means that Stina gets to be Stina in the People's Register, and not Stian, and that Luca gets to be the man he feels like, without having to sterilize to make public Norway see him as he is. We are closing today a chapter in Norway's history that has been painful and difficult for more people in our large community. We believe that in the Workers' Party is very good. At the same time, we're humiliating to the fact that for more people the change is a little too late. We all want to be who we are – to be ourselves. Being oneself — as a logical imperative, as a basic starting point for being human — calls for two values. It calls for freedom and dignity. You must have the power and the ability to move towards your own goals – it is freedom, and you must have self-respect and be seen and accepted as who you are – it is dignity. With this amendment, the burden imposed by the public on the individual is lifted, and many more are allowed to be self-full. I would like to join the case rapporteur, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, who, in his statement, made a good account of the concrete implications of this amendment, and the practical consequences of it. According to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, today's practice is contrary to the Discrimination Act. It is also contrary to the Council of Europe's recommendation. The previous government took the initiative to set up an expert group to assess the criteria to be applied for gender change in Norway and to assess whether to remove current sterilisation requirements. In its interim report of December 2014, the Expert Group advised the Ministry and recommended that legal gender be made a legal right separate from medical and therapeutic issues, that legal gender change be based on the subjective experience of each individual’s own sex and that the scheme be based on a self-declaration model. Several countries have recently changed their criteria for changing legal gender, among others. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and New Zealand. With regard to the issue of a lower age limit, we in the Labour Party agree with the government on a lower age limit, as the government, after the consultation round, changed from seven to six years of age, following advice from the Children's Ombudsman. There are many who have fought hard and long for this law change. I want to thank those who have fought this fight for themselves and for all those who come after. They should of course have avoided fighting so hard, but it probably wouldn't have happened right now if it hadn't been for their efforts, so thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e281	Today we are dealing with a bill that will make it easier and less invasive to change legal gender. Persons who experience a gender other than that with which they are registered in the public register shall now be granted a right to change legal gender without requiring a particular diagnosis or medical treatment. The right to such a change shall now be based on the experience of the sex identity itself. The expert group evaluated three different models for which conditions should be set in order to change legal gender: the diagnostic model, the assessment model and the declaration model. The common feature of all three models is that no medical intervention or treatment is required. The expert group recommended that the new rules be based on the model declaration, which means that the person who experiences an inconsistency between his/her own gender identity and his/her registered legal gender may himself request a change in legal gender. The consultation note followed up the recommendations of the expert group and the hearing bodies were largely very positive to the proposal. Furthermore, several actors have considered today’s practice to be discriminatory and contrary to the Discrimination Act, and several countries have changed their criteria for changing legal gender in recent years. The Progress Party supports the legislative proposal under consideration today. All I think is a little bit difficult is this with age limits. It is difficult to land it perfectly optimally so that all parties will be satisfied, and the future will show how well we met. Anyway, we're taking a big step today, to the joy of many. A few years ago, I had no knowledge of this. But at that time I became acquainted with a lady, whom I met again and again and had good conversations with. One day another asked me if I knew that she was actually born as a man. This was unknown to me, and I asked him where he had this from. No, he had just heard some rumors. I hate rumors, so the next time I met my new friend, I asked her. She confirmed that she was born as a man. Most people just whisper in the hooks, she said and added that she was happy that I asked. Thanks to our friendship I've learned a lot, and this makes me understand that this is a great day for many. In the last few years, I've met several people who feel alien in their own bodies, and I have therefore learned myself that not everyone wants to complete a full sex shift. These are people who are different than you and me, and this makes them different choices. But the desire to change the legal gender without having to make a diagnosis, undergo longer psychiatric investigations and long-term hormone treatment, as well as having performed irreversible sterilisation, they have in common. I followed the TV series ‘Born in the wrong body’ and believe it has been an important contribution to increasing the knowledge and understanding of several people. I must nevertheless note that we have a way to go. Too many in our society are afraid of the unknown, and they mean a lot without getting involved in the matter. Comments and enquiries I have received about this make me sad. But today I choose to rejoice that after all things go in the right direction, and that the law change is supported by many. The case rapporteur has well explained the matter itself and what is in the law, so I choose not to repeat this, except to say that it is very gratifying that when this law comes, it also has broad political support. So it's really just for me to say, "Congratulations with the day!"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e302	Over the past few weeks, the Storting has discussed the government's proposal for the law on legal gender change. A number of amendments are proposed, as confirmed by the new law, inter alia. to abolish the requirement of sex and other medical conditions and to allow individuals the right to change legal gender without today's requirements for specific diagnosis or assessment of experts. A new person number is assigned to a sheep; children can change legal gender from 6 years of age; children and young people between 6 and 16 years of age must apply with their parents or others with parental responsibility. I am aware that several people have experienced violations related to their own gender identity also in meeting with the Norwegian health service. It shouldn't be like that. This is one of the reasons why the government is promoting a legislative amendment. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to look at how to ensure a better process of changing legal gender in Norway. Persons who experience a lack of gender equality and feel that they are born in the wrong body must and must be taken seriously. The Christian People's Party is concerned that knowledge of transsexualism and those born in the wrong body must be strengthened. We are concerned that every human being should meet with dignity, understanding and competence. Harry Benjamin Resource Centre works to ensure that society accepts people who are born in the wrong body, and expresses concern in its consultation call that the legislative amendments are not consistent, despite the fact that it was in the then government's order for the Health Directorate. They point out that an important condition for the solution to be achieved over time is that the law does not have unforeseen consequences. The Christian People's Party shares their concern that the bill is not consistent. Let me stress this: the vast majority of people who experience being born in the wrong body don't make an urgent decision – we don't think they simply do it. However, the political process must take time to sufficiently investigate a comprehensive legislative proposal. The Christian People's Party lacks a clearer child perspective in the proposition. The children’s ombudsman points out in his interview that parts of the bill dealing with parental responsibility are not sufficiently well established. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman states that they lack a more concrete child perspective in the consultation note and a more detailed assessment of the importance of the proposed changes affecting children. The Christian People's Party notes that parents' demands for consent related to changing children's legal gender are discussed in the proposition, but many issues are completely omitted. That perspective wanted the Christian People's Party to be investigated. What are the consequences for a child who is a legal man and who is a biological woman? What does this do to the child? Can one of the proposed legislative changes also risk changing the legal sex of the child by parents, contrary to the child’s own wishes? Can the changes weaken the right of individuals to health care, as Harry Benjamin Resource Center points out? We don't know this, because we haven't determined it consistently. It's shown in the proposition that a lot of countries have done this. There are some countries that have gone ahead, but there are not a large number of countries. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring a good, safe and clear framework, the best interests of young people, and that the solutions should not have major and unforeseen consequences for the persons directly or indirectly affected by the legislation. In particular, this young person concerned by the legislation applies either directly or as a third party. I therefore address the Christian People's Party's own proposal, in which we «ask the government to present a comprehensive investigation explaining the possible consequences of the proposal for a law on the change of legal gender in Norway, in line with the original order».
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e325	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e328	The Ministry of Health and Health proposes in the proposal to make it easier and less intrusive to change legal gender. Persons who experience a gender different from that in which they are registered should be entitled to change legal gender without requiring a particular diagnosis or medical treatment. Today, the practice of changing gender is that this cannot be changed in the population register until a confirmation has been received from the National Transsexualism Treatment Service at Oslo University Hospital that the final conversion of gender has taken place. In practice, this means that they must have completed irreversible sterilisation. The centre party understands the objections to today's practice, and we support the main intention behind the proposal, but nevertheless we are going to vote against the proposal today as it stands. It is based on the fact that we believe the proposal is not well enough elaborated. We are going to propose that the laws be passed consistently before the Stortinget takes a final position on the bill. The centre party, unlike the majority, believes that the recommendations of the expert group on age are good recommendations from which the Stortinget should not go away. The expert group suggests that a change in legal gender becomes a legal right, distinct from medical and therapeutic issues. It should be based on a declaration model, but when it comes to age, the expert group says that imagery should be used as a general rule and that persons aged 16 to 18 should be able to change legal gender if none of the parents disagree. If one of the parents disagrees, the case may be decided by the County. For those between 12 and 16 years of age, the expert committee recommends that parents may require change if the child so wishes, and for those between 0 and 12 years, the expert committee believes that change can take place according to parental requirements and according to expert judgement confirming the need for legal gender change. A minority in the expert group submitted a submitted reflection period as in Denmark. When the majority of the population today departs from the recommendations of the expert group on age, I find that there is little justification. The centre party will make proposals for consistency. In this context, we write in the proposal that one should base the recommendations of the expert selection on the fact that imagery should be in force, and that one between 0 and 12 years of age must have expert judgment in addition to parental and child wishes. We also believe that a reflection period – we have said between three and four months – should be introduced in such a case. For me, it's a little unintelligible that the majority of people today assume that a six-year-old is mature enough to make such a choice with his parents, but that a five-year-old isn't. For this reason, we believe that the recommendation from the expert selection to take the whole group between 0 and 12 years within the same rules is a much wiser recommendation. We are some today with the Christian People's Party that we do not have a stronger pediatric assessment. Namenelova changes one today for all children, so now 16-year-olds can change names without parents' wishes. We think it's unfortunate to change the names in general because of this case, and in the hearing, there's some notion that this is possible as a special arrangement for those who are in debt. Our proposal today lacks a comma. I can take the next post where it should be, I don't have it here. But I'm making the proposal, which is not quite right, and then I'm notifying that we're going to vote against the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e343	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e346	I have a script, but I think I have to start with some comments for the two previous speakers. There was “comma” and “wrong body” which I noticed. This is not a parentheses in the story for those concerned, and it is not EU control on the car we are talking about. It's body. Bad body? Yeah, it could be that there's the wrong body, or it could be a body that has a little bit more in it than what we've got. It could be that this poses challenges for the state and not that there is a wrong body for the one involved. I think that many people experience having had to go down with themselves. They may have had reflection periods from three to four years old, and they may have had enough to think about and enough to relate to the environment with their sexual expression. I think we should focus more on opportunities and spaces for the individual, and that body and mind have more in them than being placed in two different categories. The law on legal gender change is the result of a minority's long struggle for recognition and justice in society. To date, we have committed systematic violations of human rights in Norway by requiring the sterilisation of persons who experienced genders different from those who were born and who have wanted this to be reflected in their public papers. People with gender identity who deviate from the norm have been treated with insufficient dignity, respect and knowledge in Norway. We have seen that in the form that Amnesty has been running signing campaigns against the Norwegian authorities, and when we hear the stories of some of them that apply. Being born in a so-called wrong body is a taboo where we've only begun to lift a little bit on the veil in Norway and in society. A few years ago, it was estimated that in Norway it was about. 20,000 transpersonals, people who somehow feel and express a different gender identity than the one they were assigned at birth. This group experiences a high degree of stigmatisation in society. In Janneke van der Ros’ 2013 study among people with gender identity tactics, it appears that almost all of them have been plagued with mental problems due to lack of gender-identity consistency and that this has given them a reduced quality of life. They also have a higher incidence of suicidal ideation and suicide than the rest of the population. Until now, it has been difficult for people who experience that they belong to a gender different from that in which they were assigned at birth to live up to their identity in public, as they often have to sort in everyday meetings with the system according to the gender they do not know. Changing sex has been time- and resource-intensive and has taken little account of individuals' self-esteem. To demand that healthy people undergo irreversible medical interventions such as sterilisation in order to change three letters of the passport is a major intervention in the right to privacy, it is degrading and on the border of torture. I must be commended to the Council of State Bent Höie, who has shown great leadership in the process of designing a more humane and modern law, which gives these people the opportunity to live out their identity in public with more dignity. This must be the case in a diverse and voiced society — it is not the task of the majority to tell minorities or individuals who they are. They have to tell us that, and we have to make sure that their voice is heard, and that they also get to participate and contribute to society in the same way as others. We'll do that with this law. The left would like us to give more influence to them between the ages of 12 and 16 in order to decide even when both parents disagree with the child. We record that the majority will not be involved, but we believe that it will mature, and are pleased that the majority are willing to acknowledge that we need to evaluate and facilitate more in the future. The left was also in a reflection period in view of not having a lower age limit. We have great respect for the fact that early-aged children have thoughts about their own gender identity, and that those who are in doubt discover it early. We do not propose that. I'll bring this up on the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e372	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e376	"I'm the girl you're good. I've got a lot and you've got a tune." You can sum up sex like that, but sex is so much more than that. Gender is identity. Gender are categories. Gender are narrow boxes that you don't always find space in, and as it can be a big freedom fight to try to know that whole person will get room. And sex must mean that the right to be who you are is defined by yourself. SV believes that people should have the freedom to live out their identity, and then it is important that the law adapts to reality, and not the other way around. That's why it's a pleasure today, because the Storting is going in to both simplify the system and, not least, end the coercive sterilization in order to change their legal gender. There is something SV has been working for too long. These are issues that do not necessarily concern the broad population. Not so many people are directly affected, but for those involved, it is absolutely essential that we take the steps we take today. It's about acceptance, and it's also about respect for the individual and for the positive differences in a society – the beautiful diversity that exists, if you just let diversity breathe, if people get up in their full length as they are. This is precisely why this is a matter of recognising the individual and the human right to define himself and who to be. Then there is an important point for SV that it is the individual who is allowed to sit with the power to define himself, even when you are young. That is why we support the proposal from the Left that young people who have reached the age of 12 and who want to change legal gender, but who do not get the consent of any of their parents, are given the opportunity to have the wish assessed on an independent basis. Although many kids have supportive parents, we want to make sure that even in those cases where parents do not find acceptance for the one their child actually is, these kids are given the opportunity to try their case, rather than being pushed into place by the environment for too long. No one should be told that you should live like anyone but yourself. All kids are going to be told that they're amazing because only they are, and only they're experts at being themselves. Then you also have to define yourself. Although it is a day of joy – and I would like to praise both the committee, the case rapporteur and not least all those who have made this demand, at the cost it has borne for the individual, for a question like this is never free of charge – I would like it to be possible to go further. I wish it would also be possible to choose a third gender category, and not just girl or boy, woman or man. Today, 20 pst lives. of the world’s population in countries where alternative gender categories are available and can be used. In Norway, we like to think about ourselves that we're in the front line, and that we're in the lead in the struggle for freedom. I believe that today's treatment and today's conclusions show that we are on a very good path, absolutely. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to keep going, but there's still a lot of people who are invited to go without actually being who you are. We're not yet in the goal. I want to end by saying that there is a rare width of these questions, and I think it is particularly gratifying that we can finally be able to understand the acceptance and respect that individuals deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e403	For one who has lived long enough to remember a time when the kind of political debate that we now have – not to talk about the kind of decisions that we are going to make today – was totally unimaginable and not at all on the agenda of our society, it is really both impressive and enjoyable to be able to participate in the debate and decide a matter like what we are doing today. I must extend a great thank you to all those who have raised this whole problem in Norwegian society over many decades, which enables us today to modernise society in the very best way possible. This is a good day. Thank you to the Minister of Health, who has raised this bill, and to a majority of the Committee who have given it a good deal of treatment and reached a good conclusion, which the Greens support. We're going to adopt a law that allows people to get their gender identity legally recognised, without having to undergo serious surgery. I think there are very many of us who are not able to take on what this means for those people that it actually means, what it means for people who for years have had to live with a gender identity that is not consistent with what is in their passport, an identity that makes society formally meet them in ways other than what they themselves want to meet and experience as. All of this is because these people have not wanted to perform irreversible surgery, or that they have not been able to perform a sex-confirming operation because, for example, they have. your child. I would like to draw up three good reasons for adopting this bill. Firstly, a law that recognises the children's right to their own identity is a victory for the work of the best of children. Secondly, legal recognition of gender identity protects against infringement and discrimination. Transnationals are particularly vulnerable to hate crime, violence and other abuses. Of course, we don't remove these kinds of problems with a pen stroke, but we adopt a law that confirms that we take one more step on the road and recognize these people, in a society where gender identity is not crucial for how risky it is to walk around the night, or for which jobs are within reach. The third and most important point is that we now get a law that is in line with human rights, which today's practice is not. Now we're finally taking the fact seriously, and we're changing the law that's been breaking too much of the human rights of transhumance for too long. That's good and right. Finally, a small appeal: although this political decision we are about to make is very joyful and very important, the fight for transpersonal rights is not over. We still have a long way to go to ensure equivalency in Norway, and to ensure that no one is discriminated against on the basis of neither gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation or who they choose to fall in love with. It is important that we now manage to apply a critical perspective throughout the growth cycle, in school and education, and also that authorities, police and health professionals, who are in contact with people, are aware of these issues and take into account the actual content of the law that we are doing today. As the representative Bergstø had in mind, we are not on target. The question of the possibility of a third gender identity needs to be taken seriously and must be discussed so that everyone in Norway can live as they feel they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e418	We have come a long way here in Norway with regard to the formal rights of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumances. But in one area, we're lagging behind in social development, and that's the arrangement for changing legal gender. Today's system is almost 60 years old, and it's too far out of date. It has also received criticism from several teams to violate human rights. The government’s objective is a tolerant and inclusive society — also in terms of gender identity and different gender expressions. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget will today adopt a new law, which makes it easier to change legal gender. Many people should be grateful that we have come to where we are today, many who have been on and working for this matter for a long time. I know it's been a great burden for some, but their commitment has been very important for the new rights to come into place. The main change in the law is that diagnosis or medical treatment should no longer be required to change the gender with which they are registered in the public register. Persons who experience a gender other than that with which they are registered shall have the right to change that fact on the basis of a declaration of their own experience of gender identity. The bill is historical because it is no longer healthcare, but the person who decides whether he or she has changed sex. There will be a clear distinction between health care and the process of changing legal gender. There is reason to believe that most applicants for a change in legal gender have weighed for and opposed and carefully considered what such a change will mean over a longer period of time. For those who have already spent time thinking and reflecting around such a choice, it can – and will often – be perceived as both a distrust and an unnecessary obstacle if society is to impose another waiting period after the application to change legal gender has been submitted. Therefore, the government does not propose that there should be a period of reflection imposed. The government also believes that young people over the age of 16 are sufficiently mature to decide for themselves whether to change legal gender. Therefore, the age limit for changes in legal gender is set at 16 years. Children and young people between the ages of 6 and 16 have to search with their parents. If one of the parents agrees, the County of Oslo and Akershus may grant an application to change legal gender. The condition is that the Countess will find that the change in gender is in the best interests of the child. Some hearing bodies believe that children and young people under the age of 16 should be able to change legal gender even if none of their parents agrees. I believe that the starting point should be that the parents should apply with the child. It is the parents, together with the child, who are closest to caring for the best of the child in the matter of legal sex. Parents, together with the child, will take care of the child’s best interests, the child’s participation, identity and integrity. However, there may be reason to be aware of the functioning of the scheme for children aged 12 to 16 and, where appropriate, to consider in the long term whether children in this age group should be allowed to apply to the State for a change in legal gender, even if both parents disagree. Changing legal gender and changing names are often closely linked. The government is therefore also proposing to lower the age limit for renaming to 16 years. The draft law that the Stortinget is discussing today is an important historic milestone. I hope and believe that the changes adopted will have a major impact on the people affected. I am very pleased that the changes get as broad political agreement as they do in the committee. As a result of these changes, Norway is going from a situation where we have been far behind internationally on this issue to being entirely in the forefront. It's historic, and many of those who have made this possible are sitting in the gallery today listening to. We owe them a lot for being there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e444	In the debate and in the case, one refers to countries like New Zealand, Denmark, soon Sweden and the Netherlands. I want to ask the Council of State if he has knowledge of other countries that we also compare with, like Germany, England and the United States, which, as far as I know, have not made the legislative changes that we are making today. For what reason have they not done so? Does the Council know anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e449	No, I don't know anything about that. Some of these countries are also not known for being particularly progressive politically in these kinds of issues, so I think that's one of the reasons. There are countries that have often been behind Norway on this type of issue as well. We have been lucky in Norway and have had individuals who have been willing to take this fight and stand up, along with organisations, and raise the issue. The fact that we also have a good investigation on the basis of this case is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e456	In this respect, it states that ‘legal gender shall be taken into account if gender is significant in the application of other laws, regulations and administrative provisions’, inter alia. «in the case of sex quota rules», but that the birth relationship shall be based on «where necessary in order to establish parenthood and parental responsibility in accordance with the rules of the Children’s Act» and «rules applicable to women who give birth shall apply mutatis mutandis to men who give birth». «For the time being», it appears in the proposition, however, legal gender shall be based on «the application of the rules of the Biotechnology Act». In the case of assisted fertilisation, the proposition states that the Ministry will come back to this issue when evaluating the biotechnology law. Can the Council of State say more about how it felt that the right to assisted conception should be for those who have changed sex?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e467	As stated in the proposition, we are now at a stage where we are about to present a comprehensive evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, and we thought it was natural that that question was addressed in that context. I hear in the debate that some people are asking questions about the consequences that legal persons can have children. To that it is to say, we are already in that situation, and this law makes no changes to the fact that people who have an identity as men can become both pregnant and born children. The only difference this law makes is that it makes the meeting with public Norway easier for people. Here comes another point that this is not something that the Storting can decide, because the individual can actually live out the sexual expression you want, regardless of our law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e474	Several of the interventions drew the children's perspective, and the Committee also commented on the matter. In Norway today, a 12-year-old has the right to be heard and to decide many important questions in his or her own life. I also realized that the Council of State was very clear that you have to look at just self-determination and the care of the group of children from 12 to 16 years of age. Now we know that very many young people are experiencing exclusions, penalties and violations, precisely on the basis of who you are, and who you are happy with, from their closest. It's a special type of intrusion, which is very serious, and which can interfere with the child's unfolding. For this reason, I wonder how the Council of State will take care of precisely those young people, with the legislation adopted today, in view of the age range of 12 to 16 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e479	I believe that the child perspective has been strengthened through the consultation round and the changes the government chose to make in the consultation round, especially with the age limit of 6 years. One states that if one of the parents or one of the closest supports a change in age from 12 to 16, one could have it. If both parents disagree, there will be no possibility as the law becomes now, but I mean – as I also said in my post – that there is a relationship that one has to follow. But my starting point, of course, is that the parents generally want it very best for their children, and we also see that many parents have really backed up whether their children from these were very small, in this kind of question. Of course, that's also the best solution, but this is something we have to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e484	Supporting parents are one of the most important resources a child can have, but we know that not all are so lucky, and that the law must be designed for all situations, including those that unfortunately are in the opposite situation. But I am very pleased with the answer from the Council of State, and I wonder if I can sum up that I understand the Council of State so that if you experience cases where children between the ages of 12 and 16 are not heard, and experience that parents veto that you should be able to become who you are, the Council of State wants to review the law again, in order to strengthen the children's right to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e490	I feel that the majority of the committee points this out in the comments and is very clear that this is a problem that we have to follow, precisely to ensure that children's and young people's rights are properly protected in the practice of the law afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e495	In the hearing and in conversations with some of them, we have heard: We have a national treatment service for those who want to physically confirm their gender. National treatment services at the Rikshospitalet have not felt as well cared for along the way. We have a small professional community in Norway on these questions. The question is: we can now be in a situation where we get a liberal policy, but we have a conservative professional environment. There's been a little bit of a rush. But how will the Council of State make it possible for those who do not necessarily want to implement it physically to confirm their gender expression to receive more support along the way, and for us to provide the whole country with a better and wider professional environment in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e504	It is part of the parallel process that takes place in the context of the work of the expert group. It has been important for me to have progressed in this work, where one shifts the question of legal gender away from the medical profession and makes it the individual's choice. I think that in itself will dampen the conflicts around the professional environment that we have in the medical field, because then there will be nothing that determines for those people who have a desire to change sex without undergoing medical treatment. Recommendations have been made, including from the expert group, on the medical offer, with slightly different views. It's also something that we're now working on, and that we're going to follow up on, and we're also working to improve the supply on the medical side for those who want different degrees of gender identity-confirming treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e511	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e516	I would like to thank you for a good debate, and in particular for having put a special searchlight on children between the ages of 12 and 16 and their rights. There I'm sure the department will follow closely and look at how the practice of the law turns out. Then I want to thank those who have stood by for this law change, and say that even if we change a law, we haven't automatically changed the attitudes of society. It has to work for that. So I just want to encourage you to keep working because laws and attitudes go hand in hand. I would also like to thank our forward-looking minister, who made the bill. The Christian People's Party called for dignity, ensuring a better process by changing legal gender and taking these seriously. Yeah, that's exactly what we want. They also referred to both the Children's Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. They are also in favour of this law, so I would urge the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of the bill – if not otherwise, so subsidiary. Then I would like to mention that the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee in 2010 recommended changing legal gender to be quick, transparent and easily accessible. And not least, one was concerned about avoiding major surgical interventions, procedures and hormonal treatments. That's what we're actually talking about here today. I am very pleased – and very proud – that Norway can be a country of the past in this way. That's why I think it's a big day for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e531	It was this proposal from the Central Party on an impact assessment, which we say that one of these impact assessments must be based on the recommendations of the expert group. So it's quoted from her, and that's where this decimal doesn't come with, in the sentence. ‘that persons between 16 and 18 years of age shall be able to change legal gender if none of the parents opposes it, or that the State decides, where appropriate, that: [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e539	Then the decimal is placed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e555	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e562	The Committee has considered Prop. 78 L 2015–2016 Changes in the Mental Health Act [[control to prevent the introduction of unwanted objects]] The proposal is about extending the possibility of implementing security controls in the field of mental health protection, and the proposal has two aspects: the introduction of the possibility of carrying out routine checks and the extension of the current scope of the law to control with a background of justified suspicion. The Committee points out that the proposals apply to patients who are under voluntary mental health protection, forced observation and forced mental health protection. The legislative proposal has been consulted and the majority of the hearing bodies support the proposals on the possibility of enhanced control in the field of mental health protection. In the past, the size has joined similar institutions for routine control in drug institutions. The proposals aim at averting situations that could become dangerous for the patient, co-patients or employees. Several have pointed out that routine checks are perceived as less stigmatizing than checks based on concrete suspicions. The aim of routine checks is to prevent actions that may have a negative impact on the treatment environment and on all patients in the institution. At the same time, it is stressed that the institution has not been proposed to introduce routine checks, but that it can be introduced if necessary to ensure safety, or if it is necessary in the interests of the health care to be provided. An overall committee considers that there is a need for a thorough review of the use of coercive measures throughout the health and care sector and believes that when a legal framework opens up for routine checks, it is particularly important that less intervention measures have been assessed and that compliance with the conditions should be demonstrated. It can be seen as a paradox that the proposals provide a basis for increased coercive use, while at the same time there is a general interest in reducing coercive use. The majority consider this to be balanced in the proposal. However, the importance of systematic efforts to reduce coercive use and greater professional responsibility for coercive measures must be stressed. The possibility of introducing routine checks is proposed by law. The Committee supports this and notes that security controls in the field of mental health protection are an intervention in the integrity of the patient and should therefore be regulated by law. I would like to stress that the possibility of introducing routine checks shall apply to day-care establishments and units, and only if it is necessary to ensure the safety or care of the patient himself or of co-patients. The proposal to introduce routine checks is limited to patients, not employees and visitors. Checks on suspected introduction of unwanted articles today do not apply to patients without a daily stay. Psychiatric disorders are increasingly being treated outside 24-hour settings in outpatient clinics. It is therefore considered reasonable that the possibility of control should be extended to outpatient clinics. Some control measures could be more daunting for children than for adults and should therefore be much more restrained from using them. Children and young people must be treated with particular care and in line with their needs and assumptions. The Committee refers to the assessment by the government of the proposed controls which are not degrading under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Article 15 and that the proposal is otherwise in line with human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e583	Prop. 78 L for 2015-2016 is about extending the possibility of implementing security controls in the field of mental health protection. The proposal has two sides: the introduction of the possibility of carrying out routine checks and the extension of the current legal scope to check with a background of justified suspicion. At the outset, I would like to say that I am experiencing a committee that is very concerned about reducing the use of force, and that there is also a cross-political consensus on this. That's good. That's why this law change is just one of several law changes that we've made and that we'll do. Before the summer, the government will set up a new sample to look at the enforcement legislation as a whole and propose modernisation. The sample shall also assess the need to adapt the regulatory framework to the different needs of different groups, e.g.: children and young people. There should therefore be no doubt that the aim of cleaning up, improving and renewing legislation is to reduce the use of coercion significantly. So we see from the hearings that finding a balance point that everyone can agree on seems impossible. That's why it's so important for me to stress that the goal of less coercion is the most important, and therefore it's also important to follow developments closely. I'll get back to this a little bit later. The proposals we are discussing today apply to patients who are under voluntary mental health protection, forced observation and forced mental health protection. The legislative proposal has been consulted and the majority of the hearing bodies support the proposals on the possibility of extended control. Several of the hearing bodies supporting the proposal believe that this will contribute to increased safety for both patients and employees. The size has recently joined similar institutions for routine control in drug establishments. The proposals aim to avert situations that could become dangerous for patients, co-patients or employees and where more intensive enforcement could be necessary. More have pointed out that routine checks are perceived as less stigmatizing than checks based on concrete suspicions. The aim of routine checks is to prevent actions that may have a negative impact on the treatment environment for all patients in the institution. At the same time, it is stressed that it has not been proposed that the institutions should introduce routine controls but that they can introduce them. When a legal framework opens up for routine checks, it is important that less interventional measures have been assessed. The possibility of routine checks is limited to patients, not employees and visitors. Psychiatric disorders are increasingly being treated outside 24-hour settings in outpatient clinics. It is therefore considered reasonable that the possibility of control should be extended to outpatient clinics. It is a unanimous committee that emphasises the importance of monitoring as far as possible, and in this respect highlights the fact that children and young people are a particularly vulnerable group in the field of mental health protection. Children and young people have different needs from adults in both information and understanding of the purposes of healthcare and the implementation of any controls. As mentioned at the outset, this amendment is one of several changes and improvements that have been promoted or are under way. I am therefore pleased that a majority supports the importance of an evaluation of all the legislative changes that are being adopted, and announces that we will return to the scope and form when these amended laws are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e615	First, I want to give some credit to the department, which writes the billing proposal in new Norwegian. I always notice that. In this proposition, the Ministry proposes to allow routine checks to be carried out on individuals and property when patients come to institutions for mental health protection. A proposal also proposes to ‘extend the right to control based on the grounds of suspicion to all mental health institutions’. Today, such controls can only be carried out by institutions on a 24-hour basis. The centre party supports the proposed law. We have a comment on the matter. It is true that the legislative changes adopted here can only be defended if they actually contribute to fewer undesirable events and reduce the risk of dangerous situations — thus providing better health care to patients in mental health care. Then we have noticed that support for the bill is strong in the professional community, with some exceptions, while there is some considerable resistance from user organisations. There was also resistance — but not as great — when similar legislation was introduced for drug institutions through Prop. 40 L for 2015–2016, which we recently adopted. When concerns about increased coercive use and stigmatisation of people with mental disorders arise, we believe that it needs to be taken seriously. The law and practice should therefore, in the view of the Centre Party, be evaluated after a few years of operation. Without comparison — but it has recently appeared through the media that the use of coercion has generally been greater than the report. A mass accumulation is – as I understand it – busy reducing the number of errors and also unnecessary coercive use. The center party, when we now expand our ability to use force and we get these feedback from user organisations that are concerned, a proposal that reads like this: ‘The government is asked to assess an evaluation of the changes to the Law on Mental Health and any other changes to the health legislation governing the use of coercive measures, in order to make visible the extent of coercive measures and how the services/measures are experienced by users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e635	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e638	The proposed amendment of the legislation today will give an extended right to implement security controls in the field of mental health protection. It has both positive and negative sides, as the consultation input showed. Expanding this possibility is no simple matter for us in the Left. We have several times at Stortinget raised the issue of coercion and the need for a professional lift in the field of mental health protection. We know that there is a link between the professional level and the use of coercion, and we know that in the field of mental health protection there are too many employees without the right skills. We have to do something about this, and it's a work that's urgent. We can't be familiar with having a mental health protection that's down-prioritized compared to the somatic. The unfortunate and artificial distinction between mental and somatic health needs to be reduced. It's moving slowly forward in mental health protection, but fortunately it's moving forward. We have to work actively to break down tabs around mental health. It hits most of us, yet there's almost no one who dares be open about it. It hinders quality development of services and creates exclusion. But enough about the well-known taboos and the work we all have to take. Long-term enforcement of mental health has been high, and Norway is among the countries in Europe with the highest proportion of inpatient compulsions. In 2015, Norway was penalised by the Council of Europe, which believes that the widespread use of involuntary medication and forced admissions is alarming. On 25 April 2016, the World Times revealed that a number of the country’s leading hospital settings are under-reporting how often they use coercion in the treatment of mentally ill patients. It's unfortunate, and it's a story that unfortunately repeats itself over and over again. The Health Directorate report The use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection for adults in 2014 shows an increase in the number of complaints related to the use of coercive and coercive measures. The report also shows large continuing geographical differences in coercive use and forced insertion. Therefore, the Left considers that there is a need for a thorough review of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection and has recently made its own proposal on what is being treated for the autumn. When the Left supports the amendment of the law today, it is because we see that better control is needed to protect employees and patients. We also share the assessments of several hearing bodies that believe that routine checks involving all can be seen as less stigmatizing than checks based on concrete suspicion. It is also important that this amendment does not open the way for routine checks to be carried out at all treatment establishments, but that it should only be introduced if it is necessary for the safety or health care provided. The left can only defend such a change in law because we believe it leads to fewer adverse events and reduces the risk of dangerous situations. This, according to the professional community, will provide a safer treatment situation and, therefore, better health services. For the Left, it is important to evaluate the effects of such a change in the law, and therefore we support the proposal of the Central Party today. It is even more important to ensure a proper lift and focus on adequate staffing and high professional and relative competence. If we can do that, we'll be able to develop a mental health protection with as little coercion as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e651	Imagine that you have a pain inside you that means you don't know where to go, you don't know how to get rid of it, you feel helpless and completely hopeless. That was the introduction to a letter I received from a patient who had his views on the matter we are dealing with today. Luckily, you have an appointment with a fixed doctor, which suggests that you go to a bed in mental health protection because life has become so bad that it is difficult for you to be home. What should be one of the first to meet you when you are posted? That you're asked to go into a room and dress naked because they're going to go through your clothes and your luggage? This may be the case today, but a pre-control decision will have to be taken. There must be a suspicion that the patient can carry weapons, drugs, or other things that could endanger the patient, other patients, or add. The Government's proposals and the Committee's setting up go further. This means that in a bedpost in mental health protection, everyone has to go through this crippling search. And if one goes against this, then it can be done by coercion – for all. The main argument is security. The fact that people bring drugs or articles that can be used to harm themselves and others, we know that there is an increasing problem, and it is important to make sure that both additives and patients are safe. The problem arises when there is no longer a requirement to see each other and to make a specific assessment, but that the suspicion that someone might be a danger leads to everyone having to undergo forced checks. Then this becomes an institutionalization of coercion. The purpose of the Mental Health Act is, inter alia, to: to promise to: ‘ensure that the measures described in the law are based on the patient’s needs and respect for human dignity’. The review of the patient's body, clothing and belongings is basically an infringement of the patient's integrity. It is necessary to have that possibility. As all health ministers in the last 20 years, Bent Höie aims to reduce the stigma of mental disorders. But here, a person is going to get hurt if he suspects that he's hurting and stigmatizing everyone with mental disorders because some people with mental disorders are being judged to be dangerous. This is what I find particularly about this case, that one does not discuss this on a more fundamental basis. In the research, this movement from a case-by-case to a general law and rule of ‘security’, i.e. a person uses the security argument to use a case-by-case approach to impose general measures. We also know that it tends to hit the weakest. This fundamental discussion is to a small extent up. The saddest one can have is: Well, well, this is actually going to apply to everyone, and so it's okay. We in SV thought it was special what this could do for the trust in the processing process and therefore goes against the setting section 4-6 of the second paragraph. I would also like to make our loose proposal, on the review and strengthening of the Commission's work on enforcement. We can subsidize proposal No. 1, but I think an evaluation of this system is a rather weak input to a very big and fundamental question, which has a lot of aspects of human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e673	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e676	Patients and employees must feel safe. It is a fundamental prerequisite for good treatment. The proposals for changes to the Mental Health Act should contribute to increased safety. The proposals concern both patients who are admitted on a voluntary basis and patients who are admitted to compulsory mental health protection. Security controls can only be applied where the safety of the patient himself, the co-patients and the employees outweigh the integrity of the patient. Several studies have shown that patients are trying to bring unwanted objects into mental health protection institutions and that this can create dangerous situations. The hearing shows that many people understand that it may be necessary to check what patients bring into an institution. We're opening up an increased use of security controls. Checks shall prevent patients from taking any action at the institution which may harm themselves or others. We propose that the institutions be able to carry out routine checks, i.e.: that all patients are controlled. I am aware that many patients never act threateningly or do anything that could be dangerous to others. For these patients, routine checks may be experienced as a integrity intervention. On the other hand, undesirable articles may be used by persons other than those who have introduced them into the institution. It is difficult to predict which patients could behave in a dangerous way and in what situations it could happen. In addition, many will experience routine checks as less stigmatizing than being specifically picked for inspection. Routine checks do not mean that checks are to be carried out at all institutions. On the contrary, we propose strict requirements to introduce routine checks. The institution must demonstrate that such controls are actually necessary to ensure safety or health care and that less interventional measures have been assessed. Routine checks shall only be possible when the patient is admitted and when the patient returns after staying outside the institution. We also propose that controls based on the suspicion that the patient is carrying dangerous articles or drugs can be carried out in all mental health protection institutions, i.e. no longer only in day-care facilities. We need to make clear requirements for the implementation of security controls. The checks shall be carried out as carefully as possible. The intensity of the control must be proportionate to the control that can be achieved. Body inspection shall be performed by a person of the same sex as the patient. Routine checks shall not include stripping. We need to adopt an overall approach to the necessary changes in the enforcement rules in the healthcare sector. The proposals to extend the possibility of implementing security controls in the field of mental health protection are a small part of the overall picture. We are also working on several measures to strengthen the patient’s position and rights in the field of mental health protection. The objective is more voluntary and less coercive healthcare. We work, among others. by following up several of the proposals of the Paulsrud Committee on increased self-determination and legal certainty. We also want to set up a separate legislative body to go through all the legislation on the use of coercion in healthcare. Baggage review and body revisiting will be perceived as unpleasant. On the other hand, pre-institutional checks can prevent serious damage and dangerous situations and the use of more interventional measures at a later stage. I believe that it is necessary to extend access to the implementation of security controls in the field of mental health protection. I respect the fact that the Socialist Left Party is not represented in the Committee and therefore has not had the opportunity to follow the proceedings in the Committee such as the parties represented there. But it is important for me to stress that the presentation of the SV representative is not correct. There will be no requirement for routine checks to be carried out at all locations. They shall be justified, and it is definitely not in line with the law of dressing patients for control. It will not be among the measures that can be implemented routinely. In that case, it will require the same thing as today. I am concerned that there should not be any leftover impression that that type of checks can now be carried out routinely on our institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e703	Section 4-6, second paragraph, states that one can introduce routine checks for all patients at the start of a treatment. Will this increase or decrease the stigma of mental disorders?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e708	I believe that everyone at a current institution will be controlled – the type of controls such as this. Everyone experiences when we're going out and traveling — it's going to be less offensive than today's situation, where one is being picked out individually. This will be experienced by the individual in different ways, we must have great respect for that. But I am also concerned that we need to ensure the safety of patients and employees in this service, and this has been highlighted for a long time as a problem. Then we also have to work in a broad field to reduce stigmatisation in mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e713	I think it's hard on the one hand to say that one will fight the stigma and at the same time have a kind of system that is described in the legal proposition – a comparison with the security control at aerodromes – as something that everyone has to go through, and so this is something that one shouldn't feel like a stigma. That explanation model I thought was very strange. When people who are in such a vulnerable situation come and ask for help, and they come to an institution that has introduced such a routine control, I'm pretty sure it will be perceived as offensive and thus contribute to stigmatisation. Then I wonder: if you're going to work to reduce the stigma by other means, what kind of action should you put in place to balance this feeling?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e720	First, I would probably be very careful about being as sloppy as the representative is here, about how this would be experienced by the individual. I think that will vary a lot. Secondly, it is also important that one does not make this as anything other than what it is. And I'm a little surprised that the representative now in the loop does not clarify the misunderstanding that he himself had in his post. At least it does not help to reduce the experience. We work with a number of mental health interventions that help to make this a recognition that we all have mental health and that we can all face mental health challenges. We do that in a broad field, from public health reporting to national health and hospital plans, the primary health notification, but also with the work we are doing now to reduce the coercive use of mental health that I think most patients experience as the heaviest, namely the coerciveness of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e727	To the very last point: it might be interesting to hear a little about what the Minister is doing. Because yes, it would reduce the registered coercion, but the new coercion will be hidden. How will the Minister work to get the information about this work so that one can make good political decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e732	After all, we have put in place a work to ensure that the registration of the use of coercion is better than it has been for a long time. However, we will also soon be tabling a bill for the Stortinget that strengthens the individual's rights very clearly in dealing with mental health protection, among other things. that one will no longer be able to coerce patients with decision-making skills, which will be a significant improvement, and that we regulate that the patient – every time coerced into mental health – should be allowed to reflect on and discuss this with the treatment. It shall also be recorded so that the type of experience and the patient’s experience of coercion can also be used and emphasised if one comes into a situation where health professionals also later consider the use of coercion. A number of other proposals from the Paulsrud Committee will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e739	That's the line change. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e755	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e762	First of all, I would like to thank you for a very constructive and well-informed dossier in the Committee. Today, we are going to consider the government's proposal for amendments to Section 6 of the Medicines Act, which will facilitate discount agreements between the pharmaceutical industry and the state of medicines funded by the blue prescription scheme. The aim is to ensure equal and rapid access to effective medicinal products at the lowest possible price for the population, which is also in line with the intentions of the notification of medicinal products. In the future, the total cost of new medicinal products may be so high that public funding for new medicinal products could distort other established treatments. This could lead to an overall lower level of health provision for the population. We will jointly be able to face the choice of not financing new medicinal products, setting strict criteria for use or reducing the price of these products. We therefore need to look at the possibilities available to reduce prices, and thus the total cost of healthcare. Many countries have been increasingly negotiating prices and discounts. Countries accept that discounts are not necessarily reflected in official list prices. The agreements are not uniform but may, for example: are contracts where the costs are linked to the total costs of the individual patient group, the results of treatment or subscription schemes obtained. As a result of the market situation and developments in the procurement of medicinal products by European countries, there is a need to facilitate the negotiation of procurement agreements and discounts also in Norway. This applies both to medicinal products financed by the specialist healthcare system and to medicinal products financed by public health. We believe that the pharmaceutical law should not lead to the design of the contracts and when the discounts are granted. This is something to which a unanimous Health Committee has joined. It is proposed that the prohibition of after-sales discounts should not apply to discounts resulting from agreements between the public and medical rights holder in order to ensure the public financing of the medicinal product. The use of reimbursement contracts and rebate agreements could mean that the selling price of pharmacies does not correspond to the actual price of the medicinal product. This may to some extent reduce the value of public pharmaceutical statistics managed by the Institute for Public Health. This is largely compensated by the fact that the nature of the medicinal product for which reimbursement agreements have been concluded will be known and that there will be no open-up to agreements on post-repayment discounts between the pharmaceutical industry and the wholesalers and the pharmaceutical chains. An overall committee endorses the amendment of the law implemented to facilitate flexible agreements with discounts on medicinal products financed by public interest. The objective is to facilitate the amendment of the law for lower costs of public health, compared to a situation where the same medicines are used without discounts. At the same time, the Committee points out that the annual budgetary impact will be high if these medicinal products are used in healthcare and their use is covered by public budgets. There is a risk that the total cost of new medicinal products will be so high that public funding of new medicinal products could distort more cost-effective treatment. § 6 of the Medical Products Act currently limits the use of reimbursement contracts to situations where there is a risk that a medicinal product will be prescribed to more patients than foreseen. A single committee endorses the proposal that the public and medicinal product rightholder may conclude such reimbursement contracts for the public financing of medicinal products. However, once again, a unanimous committee demonstrates that the use of such contracts is a possible instrument for exploiting the competition between different medicinal products for budgetary control, and the Stortinge will facilitate the wider use of such contracts by this Decision. However, the right does not support the minority’s proposal to oblige the government to take an initiative on more transparency in the pharmaceutical market. The Council of State is already an active driver to contribute to international cooperation in order to safeguard the Community's interest in this context. Questions can be asked whether a full transparency requirement will help to strengthen our negotiating position in this market. In addition, Norway is already an active driver of lower drug prices and improved interaction and development of new vaccines and other medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e790	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Medicinal products are the most common form of medical treatment in our common healthcare system, and in one year two thirds of the Norwegian population receive prescription drugs. Drug treatment plays an important role in preventing and reducing morbidity and mortality, but of course it can also cause side effects and other drug-related problems. The proposal to amend the Medicines Act on Reimbursement Contracts and Discounts is a direct follow-up to the treatment of last autumn by a unanimous committee on the notification of medicinal products. The need for new instruments to ensure public access to important medicinal products was described, and the Committee said at that time, among other things. the following: ‘The Committee refers to the ongoing debate on access to highly expensive medicinal products and considers that today’s system of reimbursement contracts and discounts has challenges related to expensive medicinal products. The Committee considers that there is a need to strengthen the possibility of negotiating discounts on medicinal products financed by public security. The Committee considers it appropriate to clarify the prohibition on granting discounts which are not fixed at the time of the sale of a medicinal product and to amend the basis on which reimbursement contracts are to be concluded.’;» The debate on access to expensive medicines has not been resolved. It has, on the contrary, increased in strength. Media mentions the danger of a two-part healthcare system, and the Minister of Health is debating with the pharmaceutical industry about challenges to which he in opposition had much simpler answers than he currently has as the responsible State Council. Many new medicinal products are being developed for the treatment of large patient groups with diseases such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, infections such as HIV and hepatitis C, and neurological diseases such as hepatitis C. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These may be medicinal products with a better effect than existing medicinal products, or medicinal products for which we do not currently have effective treatment. The annual budgetary impact of such medicinal products will be high if they are used in healthcare and their use is covered by public budgets. We are likely to face a situation where costs associated with new medicines are increasing considerably. The total cost of the new medicinal products may be so high that public funding for them could distort more cost-effective treatment and thus lead to an overall lower level of health provision for the population. § 6 of the Medical Products Act currently prohibits discounts that are not fixed at the time of the sale of a medicinal product, i.e. after-sales discounts. The change we are adopting today exempts discounts granted as part of agreements between the public and pharmaceutical industries to ensure the public financing of medicinal products from this ban. The amendment therefore opens up the provision by the pharmaceutical industry of such discounts to the benefit of the public interest. That's good, and it gives the community another card on hand. It is a strength for our common health service that the pharmaceutical policy is as unified as the treatment of the notification of medicinal products has shown. Norway is a small country and a small pharmaceutical market. In an international context, we have low prices and limited pharmaceutical production at home. Nevertheless, we will meet a trend in which the costs of new medicines will increase considerably. That's why we need to fund our common health service to tolerate more expensive medicines. We need to research more, and we need to facilitate the use of Norwegian preference, particularly in relation to biobanks and health records, to develop new medicines. We must also negotiate tougher and with new cards in hand in response to the industry. The Labour Party ends unanimously on the proposal under consideration and is not part of the minority that has its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e812	In this legislative proposal, an amendment to Section 6 of the Medicines Act proposes to facilitate rebate agreements between the pharmaceutical industry and the State for medicinal products financed under the Blue Recipe Scheme. The background to the proposal is the warning in the Pharmacovigilance Notice that any changes to the legislation necessary to facilitate price discounts for medicinal products financed by public interest have been made. In the proposition, the department writes the following: ‘In principle, it is desirable to optimise the transparency of medicinal product prices and agreements between the authorities and the pharmaceutical industry. However, the current market situation suggests that transparency may have a high cost in terms of Norway not obtaining discounts on medicinal products. Transparency must therefore be balanced against the costs of poorer patient provision. At the discretion of the Ministry, legislation should take into account the fact that, in some cases, the pharmaceutical industry is not willing to lower the maximum price but may be willing to lower the real price through different forms of rebate agreements.» This is, of course, the dilemma and shows what kind of system it is to regulate drug prices. The Committee's configuration also includes this. The centre part is a part of those comments. However, it is a challenge when one has many new medicines to treat large patient groups with diseases such as heart cancer, cancer, infection and neurological diseases. The annual budgetary effects will be significant if these medicinal products are put into use and covered by public budgets without having a reasonable price, and a fear that the total cost of new medicinal products will have such a significant impact that it can lead to an overall poor supply of health to the population. This is the dilemma in this case. I'm going to admit that the Center Party doesn't like this whole thing. We have referred to NOU 2014 in a note:12, Open and fair – health care priorities, which just indicates that Norway and other countries are facing a balance between paying a high list price and openness about the price or negotiating discounts and other terms and conditions and accept that there is no full openness about discounts and conditions. The Center Party has a problem accepting this. It is that increasing the use of rebate agreements and reimbursement contracts, as this case suggests, can help to reduce the transparency of public-funded pharmaceutical treatment costs. It is problematic for several reasons, as we note, that eelmenta is not transparent and that the value of public medicine statistics is being reduced. We have therefore put forward a proposal. We believe that it must be a clear objective for Norway to secure an international pharmaceutical market with openness on price and reimbursement agreements. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in international efforts to ensure the transparency of the pharmaceutical market.’ I expected that there were a few more parties that had supported us today. When it applies to the rest of the bill itself, we have assessed whether we should support it. We're going to support the bill, but I have to admit that I feel a bit like the fox in the Hack Hill Forest when he was going to decide if everyone would become a vegetarian. He saw the mighty plural around him, and finally he said, "They can take my lab too." And that's what I'm going to say in this case: you're going to have to take our lab, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e840	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e843	Most of us are doing very well in Norway – high employment, high standard of living, we have food on the table, we enjoy life and have the opportunity for a rich leisure time. Our health system is one of the best in the world, and although we've had to wait a long time for treatment in the past, it's also about to turn around. But not everyone's doing well. Many children, young people and adults live with chronic diseases. Some have major challenges in getting through the day. Many are plagued by severe pain and discomfort caused by illness — severe, sometimes incurable and sometimes very rare diseases, diseases that give rise to a high degree of disability and low levels of social activity, diseases that require the entire emotional register of both relatives and the environment. But we have one thing in common: the hope and the dream of staying healthy. Research is important and is one of the government's priorities. Who won't find the answer to the cancer guess or to another serious disease? In recent years, we have witnessed several breakthroughs in the development of life-prolonging and curative medicinal products, especially in cancer, cardiovascular diseases, infections and neurological diseases. The development of medicinal products is a cost-intensive process and will therefore influence the pricing of the new medicinal product, especially by success. The Government shows in Prop. 83 L for 2015–2016 that we are likely to face a situation where the costs of new medicinal products are significantly increased and that the total cost of new medicinal products can be so high that public funding could lead to an overall lower health supply for the population. Today there are medicines that cost several million dollars per patient per year, medicines that can have life-long effects, even curative effects. Some will need lifelong use of these medicines. We are therefore faced with very important choices. Are the new medicines to be financed at all costs? Should we set strict criteria for use? Or are we going to try to find ways to reduce costs? The government is building patients' healthcare. They all have the same size of space, and they're all equally important. Each individual shall be seen and each voice shall be heard. I need relatives to be heard. Freedom of choice is central. Therefore, it is in everyone's interest that we can offer the best medicine available, even if the price is high. The population shall be guaranteed an equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products at the lowest possible price. The government has found a way to do this and is presenting the proposal for amendment of the law here today, with reimbursement contracts and discounts. The amendment facilitates rebate agreements between the pharmaceutical industry and the State for medicinal products financed under the blue prescription scheme. The use of reimbursement contracts is a possible tool for exploiting competition between the various medicinal products and for obtaining budgetary control. Both the funder of the medicinal product and the pharmaceutical industry want predictability. A guided introduction for follow-up and use is sought by both parties. The case has been sent to the hearing, and the replies to the hearing show a broad consensus on the proposals under consideration today. Then I guess I'll say that I'm glad that the Center Party is giving the lab and joining in on parts of this, because I think this will be for the benefit of patients' health care, and that's who you're busy trying to help with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e862	The Government has made proposals for amendments to Section 6 of the Medicines Act. The amendment will facilitate rebate agreements between the pharmaceutical industry and the State for medicinal products financed under the Blue Recipe Scheme. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to the notification of medicinal products, Proper use – better health, as the Stortinget treated in February. Here the Government proposes to investigate any changes to the legislation necessary to facilitate price rebates for medicinal products financed by the rule of law. The aim of the measure is to achieve the lowest possible price of medicinal products, thereby ensuring equal and rapid access for the population to effective medicinal products. I am very pleased that a joint committee is behind the government's proposed legislative changes. New knowledge and innovative technologies are leading to emerging medicinal products that can treat serious diseases more effectively. Evolution is moving fast, and it will continue. This is good news for patients. But evolution also gives us some new challenges, including: how to secure funding if access to the new medicinal products is granted to all those who would benefit from the treatment. The legislative proposal facilitates the use of new instruments to meet this challenge. I note that several members of the Committee are concerned that the increased use of rebate agreements and reimbursement contracts can help to reduce the transparency of costs of medical treatment financed by the public. I want transparency about pharmaceutical prices, but if transparency leads to Norwegian patients not having access to medicines, we cannot defend demanding full transparency. I have discussed pharmaceutical prices and the exchange of information with my European colleagues. I feel that the European Health Ministers have a common recognition that the high prices of medicines are a problem that we need to deal with more together, and that countries are positive about cooperating more on this. At the same time, we have not come so far that it is realistic that European countries can agree to have transparency of negotiations and prices. Therefore, Norway cannot only require price transparency if the consequence is that Norwegian patients are affected. This does not, however, prevent the premise of assessments and decisions from being both clear and predictable. The government will soon promote a major health priority message. The Communication provides the basis for establishing clear and predictable principles of priority to ensure non-discrimination across patient groups and levels where health care decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e880	There is a comment in the setting that only the center part is behind, that ‘It must be a clear objective for Norway to ensure an international medicinal product market with transparency of price and reimbursement agreements’. I hear that the Council of State says that he cannot guarantee this if – and there is a dilemma in the matter – it goes beyond the prices of medicines. But let's see that one gets to this without compromising the prices of medicinal products: can the Council of State say – if the other parties do not say it here in the Chamber – if he and the government think it is a goal to secure a pharmaceutical market with openness of price and reimbursement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e891	I agree that openness is an ideal. I also think the majority will express that. But the idea that we should be faced with a situation in which, in the near future, we would have a regulation in this area that would allow all or large parts of the world to have an agreement that one should have transparency about prices: I am not able to see now that we are faced, precisely because this is a question that I have raised with colleagues at both Nordic, European and international level. Then I am concerned that we also need to have a realistic approach to this, and a very emphasis on the principle of transparency in the current situation would have been at the expense of patients' opportunities for access to the necessary treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e896	When it comes to decision-making forums, it has been criticised that a user is too long before the decisions are made. I understand that one of the reasons for that is the negotiation of the price. As a national election, at least I feel that we have questions, and we have to show something we don't know. So does the Council of State see that the system can also lead to people lacking confidence in the priorities and decisions that we make in the health care system, when the price argument is gone from the public space?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e901	I see that it is sometimes difficult to answer such questions, even for me, because I do not have the opportunity to know the agreements entered into in the decision-making forum. But I trust the people who sit there and that we also have e.g. user representatives within the Decision Forum ensure greater transparency around such decisions. So it would have been that if we demanded terms and prices – and it is important for me to stress that this is often more than price, it is also about other conditions – it would have made some of the treatments that we have used in Norway today, probably could not have been used, because we could not conclude the kind of agreements that other countries have concluded, but that we have now also concluded here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e908	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e913	In the case we are dealing with today, everyone agrees, but the discussion of transparency comes here, as well as the discussion of tools to create transparency and new medicines, and what tools and measures we can use. In terms of transparency, the left-hand side of the perception is that it's important. That's a lot of money we're talking about. As the Council of State says, one speaks of European cooperation from the political side. Today, the pharmaceutical industry is largely related to the EU in order to obtain authorisation, so we need to cooperate more closely across countries, cooperate more politically and also use more instruments. In Denmark, they have an intermediate solution where the public cannot see the prices of medicinal products, while health professionals and suppliers can see the prices via a login system. It's an example of how someone thinks and does it. I have also previously called for an interfunding model based on funds where more people are involved, such as: The Cancer Association and other private contributors. It is not to top up funding and provide medicines that are not necessarily documented, nor as top finance, but to enable us to cooperate with other countries, such as Denmark, and other actors less bureaucratic and more dynamic. We need to look for such types of solutions. Of course, we're going to evaluate them along the way, but in the demanding, international work this is, we have to be open to political cooperation models in ways other than what we've traditionally been used to regulating very bureaucratic and very rigidly, so that we get more arenas and more experience to evaluate along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e922	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e936	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e945	First of all, thank you to the Labour Party for promoting a proposal that is important on behalf of patients and important also to the public sector, because new technologies can help to strengthen the health sector and that it can actually be made more effective. The patient can become more boss in his own life by accessing new technology, but we need to ensure that privacy is safeguarded. Yes, we are facing a digital revolution in the Norwegian and international health sectors. It becomes demanding, not least for the provider, the public health service, and will also create challenges for the patient. That's why it's important that we think in stages and not go too fast. We're going to make a change in both the primary health service, which the municipalities provide, and also in the specialist health service, which the state operates today. It is about significant investments to adapt and also to learn. It's all about everything from the small adaptation inside a doctor's office to the replacement of significant infrastructure across the country. It is also about providing better public information to patients. There we have a way to go in the Norwegian health sector. It is also very much about competence for the employee and for the patient. In the treatment of the primary health notification, we have been committed to the legalisation of ergot-erapeuters from 2020. The NOU ‘Innovation in care’ referred to ergot therapists as those with the most important competence in terms of innovation in the health sector. They have the ability to see the patient’s needs, but also the adjustments that owners and providers can make. This also concerns the organisation of the health sector. It is a large sector of many employees. Therefore, it takes time to make changes and adjustments. It is also about management not least of more and more sensitive personal data, which can be diverted through digitisation. For the patient’s part, technology makes an important contribution to improving the competence of its own disease, better practices and more information, and through peer-to-peer collaborations developed within the Norwegian healthcare system, it also strengthens the possibility for the patient to be involved in and make decisions concerning the individual that are particularly important. It is also important that we work systematically through data protection work on how to manage individual patient information by the state. We are facing a turn from which today the patient's own data is the input factor, that we should make more sure that the individual pays and not so much contributes to his own data in order to demonstrate the development and profit of others. For particularly chroniclers, mobile health and welfare technologies represent a great opportunity. Many of them experience falling between primary and specialist health services today. They can more and more regularly follow up their own diagnostics. It will give them increased competence for their own disease. For many, this leads to fewer hospitalisations, and they get greater precision and frequency in measurements and knowledge. It also means that we have to organize ourselves differently, as the Health Watch in Trondheim puts it, or the urban areas in Oslo, which make attempts at welfare technology and think that Oslo is actually too small to run that kind of business. Then we also have to standardize and think that here we have great business opportunities. The Nordic region has a good basis for cooperation. That, too, is something we must aim for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e968	It's time for a power plant that can challenge traditional ways to rig the health, care and care sector, by expanding the repertoire we have today. We are already seeing that healthcare does not need to be bound by a physical framework; we have seen for a long time that interaction and communication can take place through, among other things. telemedicine solutions over the network and – eventually and not least – using the mobile phone we have in our pocket. New digital services help citizens in general and patients and users in particular to obtain information and make active choices related to their own health. In this way, we have today a unique opportunity to influence our own health services. That's why mobile health technology is so good. It is a technology that can also provide better treatment and follow-up for patients and users, while also saving healthcare time and money. So we're talking about a win-win situation. What is now pointed out by several teams is that the government does not address these challenges well enough. We see that heavy players such as Abelia and the Technology Council are calling for stronger action from the government. SINTEF emphasises that everything is conducive to a more offensive policy in this area, given that we have good digital infrastructure in this country and that we are a technology-confidential people. In a 2015 report, the Council of Technology states that mobile health technologies are particularly important for people with chronic disorders, such as through good technical devices, such as: different apps, can get a completely different and better everyday life. The Technology Council recommends that the public take the lead in the organisation and regulation of new products and in order to obtain good and safe solutions. It is very important that data related to our health is used in the way it was intended, and in a proper way. Better and more systematic use of mobile health technologies can enable patients to take real control of their own lives. But for the time being, we are not there to deal with the new possibility. It is therefore essential that a stronger grip is taken now. In the treatment of the primary health notification, the Workers' Party, together with several, called for health technology to become a strategic field of action, not least in the community health service, as many local elderly people in particular would benefit from such a commitment. We believe that a national action plan for increasing the use of mobile health technologies should be drawn up with a view to enabling all patients who wish to do so to follow-up from home with the necessary and ongoing follow-up from health care. Both the technology industry, international environments and health services must be invited to participate in the work on such an action plan. The plan needs to elucidate how health technologies, and especially mobile technologies, can be used safely in healthcare. The safety aspect must explain how the health data are stored and sent, who accesses them and how mobile health solutions are ensured. I read from the Council's reply to the Committee that he believes that this field is covered by a new national eHealth Action Plan. But the reason why the Workers' Party here and now is specifically lifting mobile health technology is that this field is developing, that we are in no way where we should be, and that we know that the occasion allows some unprofessional actors to get on the road. This is why we believe that there needs to be a special strain now, so that we in Norway do not become a retard, which several heavy technology actors think we might be in the process of becoming. There's no reason for that. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health is constantly referring to the Red-Green Government's big message One resident – one journal, and that it is also based on the National Welfare Technology Programme, which came into the wake of the big bang message Tomorrow's care. Both of these were groundbreaking news of e-health and welfare technology, which the Stoltenberg II government presented. In other words, it is very important work that was done on a red-green watch, and which this government now enjoys – but which was not exactly applauded by the same parties in opposition, to say it mildly. But we're taking the good changes with respect and joy. Now it is urgent to speed up the use of health technologies in general and mobile solutions in particular, in line with the possibilities available. Then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is promoting alone and together with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e987	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e990	The working party shall be praised for addressing the topic of mobile health technology and, in this Document 8, they shall have a proposal for the preparation of a national action plan for the implementation of mobile health technology. The right believes that the Workers' Party opens the doors of this proposal, and I will discuss why we believe it. In addition, they ask the government to develop a technology-neutral financing model, which will provide incentives for increased use of technology. I would also like to refer to the Department and the Council of State replies. Investment in ICT is one of the six major carriers in the government’s work to create the patient’s healthcare. And as I mentioned, in his letter to the Committee on 25 April, the minister described this field carefully in a long and comprehensive letter. Important national measures have been taken in the ICT field, including: the Directorate for eHealth was established on 1 January 2016. The aim of this is precisely to improve the management and coordination of ICT developments – there was a serious need for this. It's a further development of the work that previous governments have started. The Directorate shall cooperate with health enterprises, municipalities and other relevant actors. I dare say that we do not get speed, systematics or implementation in all the municipalities without having a directorate that can simply work to coordinate it. There are a lot of good examples around the municipalities, but it'll be very often simple examples and not systematics. One of the first governments did was adopt a new patient records and health records legislation in the United Kingdom in 2014. The law was adapted to modern reality precisely because you need to share information in order to provide good enough health care. The patient should not fall between the many chairs or the many shots in the healthcare system. The new use of technological solutions is open to help improve the patient’s health care. I also agree with the representative, Kjeseth, that it is important that privacy is kept in use at all times. ICT and welfare technologies shall not complement a healthcare service, but it shall be an integral and natural part of a healthcare service. That is why there is a need for systematics and coordination. The use of welfare technologies and also of mobile health technologies shall contribute to safety, safety, social inclusion and, in particular, provide individuals with the opportunity to master better everyday life, even if they are disabled. The Health Directorate and the Health Sector have said that they themselves see that there are many untapped opportunities in mobile technology. This needs to be used to prevent and identify disease in the past and to strengthen patient involvement when disease occurs. With regard to the removal of time thieves and unnecessary costs in the health care system, there have been accounts showing that there is a lot to pick up. Increased use of this type of technology could mean savings. But then it has to be systematized and coordinated. This government has followed up and intensified the work of the previous government in terms of both technology development and not least the focus on welfare technologies and more trials. Welfare technology and also mobile health technologies are currently part of the national action plan and a new national eHealth action plan is under preparation. Mobile health technology is an input into this action plan. Right, along with the majority of the committee, it doesn't have to, as I said initially, kick in open doors. We are now waiting for the areas of action in the action plan and looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1005	Technology will be one of the pillars of the health and care services of the future – I am not in doubt about that – but there are, of course, some challenges to privacy and the kind of things that have been pointed out by several of the previous representatives. Even I was at the University of Southeast Norway a short time ago. It's exciting to see that there's an incredible amount of development in this area, it's very exciting that's in fermentation. So, of course, the job is to make sure that it's put out in life, and that it benefits patients and those who need it. The aim, of course, is to create a safer and simpler everyday life, both for the user, for relatives and not least for care professionals in the future. Digital services offer new opportunities to involve patients, users and citizens in a completely different way from what we are doing today. It is important that users see the possibilities and can make good use of them. By using welfare technology solutions, users can experience better health and less consumption of health services. There is a high potential to invest in welfare technologies. It brings benefits to society and to health and care services. Users need health care. The ability of technology to meet the needs of its citizens should lead users to experience a greater degree of freedom and mastery of their own lives and health. The population goes from passive patients to active users. The proposers believe that healthcare is currently not rigged to deal with new health technologies and that a national action plan is now needed. I believe they must have slept a little per hour. This government is already well under way to build, develop and further develop welfare technology solutions across our vast country. We established the eHealth Directorate in 2016 to improve predictability by strengthening the governance of the eHealth service area. We need an actor who can bring the sector together on a common development, and there is a need for an innovation in how we use our instruments. In September 2015, the Health Minister opened the Healthworld Conference. It has proved to be an important meeting place for the health sector, the IT industry and administration. The welfare technology information service was established in October 2015. National welfare technology programme now launches its own information service for all who want to keep up to date with existing technical standards for welfare technology, and jobs, inter alia. to provide guidance to all purchasers and suppliers involved in the realisation of the patient’s personal health network. The first version of the national reference architecture for welfare technology was completed and launched for testing in December 2015. In a 2016 report, the Health Directorate makes clear recommendations to all municipalities in the country to implement welfare technology solutions. The report makes recommendations on the areas that may need to be prioritised first, including: location technology, electronic medication support, electronic door locks – or e-locks – etc. Here, too, there are privacy issues that you need to include, but I am sure you can handle them in a good way. The proposal seems to me to be turning on – as the previous representative also said – open doors. This government is well in the process of expanding an exciting field of mobile health technology. Continuous quality assurance has made it possible for municipalities to participate and contribute to this. The road will also stay a little bit while we go. I think it's important not to stop and stagnate after finding a solution, but to keep looking at new solutions and new opportunities. I experience that you have both an industry and a level of competence where you are very ready to take on these challenges. It can be seen that both universities, universities and others are involved and contribute – together with entrepreneurs, individuals and companies who want to help develop a new welfare technology, to the benefit of patients, and of course also with an opportunity to make money. That's good, too. When we're going to live on something other than oil, this is going to be an area where there's a great potential for making a lot of money. That will be good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1026	Health technology is not new, but now it’s going fast, so what was new a few years ago is old today. I think this is such an important matter that we in this room must agree that this we must build stone on stone. Interaction is about communication. We used to be dependent on coming to the hospital in time. Now the hospital comes to us. The air ambulance comes with the CT machine. The air ambulance comes with the ECG device, and they even have it in the North Sea, to see if it's right to send him in. We're very good in the emergency phase. We are among the best in the world when it's going to reach people in the emergency phase, and to use technology and medical devices. But on the other hand, once we've been treated, we've come home and are going to live with the diseases and lifestyle diseases that many of us have, we haven't been so good at implementing this. The equipment is there, but we haven't been good enough in Kommune-Norway to actually put it into use, so the chroniclers can use the iPad and find out if the blood sugar is too high. Have I gone enough today, or have I gone too little today? What do I have to do with my diet? This can then be done instead of having an hour at the outpatient clinic or at the hospital. Using new technologies will save the individual, but it will also save our society. We'll be able to live with the disease in a completely different way. Welfare technology and health technology have come to be. But the biggest challenge is, I think, the Christian People's Party, that once we've got this -- we're sitting with the machine, we're sitting with the iPad -- who's going to help users follow this up? I've challenged the state council sometimes before. I wish we had thought creatively about the youth who's learning, and mixed subjects like health professionals and electronics. Then one could help the individual at home and observe at the same time when the medical or welfare technology is not working. We need to help our municipalities have a purchasing system that makes them dare to invest in welfare technology and take a chance. As the scheme is today, municipalities can almost not take an economic chance to try things out. So projects and pilots become important, so we get the good story to tell. Because to the seventh and last we're all equal. We want to stay at home as far as possible. We want to live with the disease regardless of health care if we can. Then we have to use the technology that is, and then we actually have to be able to put it into practice. I think that's possible if we don't work as opposition and position, and we don't work together in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1039	Mobile health technologies and welfare technologies are the parties to the Centre may be very important in securing patients and users toil in everyday life and ensuring better use of resources for health and care services. I very much agree with what the representative Bollestad said just now, that especially at the other end, e.g. in the field of emergency medicine and also among the chronicler groups, we have a high potential to use both mobile health technologies and not least other welfare technologies. It's good for patients, it's good for health care services and for society. In this proposal for a representative, the Labour Party proposes two proposals, namely to ask the government to develop a concrete action plan to increase the use of mobile health technology, and to ask the government to develop a technology-neutral funding model. We share the views of the Working Party on the importance of a high pace and strong progress in the implementation of new technologies in the health sector, and it was the red-green government that, in the morning's morning's care message, proposed the creation of a National Welfare Technology Programme, and this was the aim of establishing welfare technology as an integral part of health services by 2020. In my response from the Council of State, I thought that the Council of State actually argued very well about what action is being taken. Welfare technologies — and as part of this, mobile health technology — have been shown to be part of the current National eHealth Action Plan 2014–2016 and work is being carried out on a new eHealth Action Plan, including mobile health technologies as an input area. Mobile health technology is also shown to be part of a national welfare technology programme, where the follow-up and treatment of people with chronic diseases are particularly focused. It was also demonstrated that Norway is participating in a project under the World Health Organisation and the International Telecommunications Union and that a national project for testing mobile health solutions has been established. When it comes to funding, the Council of State shows that telemedicine solutions, with some persistence, are part of the effort-driven financing system and that in 2013 a separate tariff for e-consultation between the population and the permanent staff was established, and not least that the Health Directorate has now been entrusted with the task of further developing financing mechanisms with a view to supporting medical practices as a result of technological innovation and that the mission is due until 2017. Overall, we believe that there is no need to have a separate action plan for mobile health. It also has a little to do with our view of bureaucracy. It is very easy to propose action plans – I know – but when there is already an action plan for eHealth, the Centre Party found it natural that mobile health efforts enter into that action plan. We are concerned that the Storting should be better informed about the state of welfare technology and e-health work, especially since it is only three years until what has been said by a mass cluster, that by 2020 welfare technology should be an integral part of health and care services. For this reason, together with the Labour Party, we have put forward the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide annual information on the State of the National Welfare Technology Programme and the National eHealth Action Plan and to ensure that welfare technology is an integral part of healthcare by 2020.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1059	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1062	In this debate, I think we can be so honest and say that either it was a red-green government or a blue-blue government or any government, this is an area where we're all slow. No one has been able to predict what has come, no one is forward in evolution, no one is on the solution. But we have to do that together. I just didn't think it would fit so well in this debate just to go into typical gunner's tomb fight where the one says we're doing too little, and the other says we're at least doing enough. It's only six years since almost no one had a smartphone. Now we have over 80 pst. That's it. That means that we have a very good starting point for mobile health technology. If you take a look at the App Store on your phone, you will soon find a million different applications you can use to monitor your health. Passively, your mobile phone can be careful if your heart is in good order, it can follow your calories through your movements, it can follow blood pressure, etc. - Passive. Actively, he can check if you have skin cancer, he can give you psychological services, he can check your carbon, he can give you brain trim, etc. We can create enormous health benefits with that. It helps in a prevention perspective, but it can also contribute directly to treatment. Especially if you combine these duplicators with what is the really great strength of mobile health: large data, for example. sequence throughput. For example, I get for a thousand notes or two sequenced my own DNA, and then I get it uploaded to a company online, and then they offer different types of services on my cell phone. Services present today. Then I can follow through my cell phone on my health based on what are hereditary diseases in my DNA. This is already happening today, there are a lot of people in Norway who are already using this. As one said, we've all been Marit Bjørgen on training. So everyone now has the possibility to be Marit Bjørgen on training, where one is simply being monitored healthfully through mobile technology. We are not in the vicinity of deciding on this in Norwegian healthcare – not in the vicinity. Take, for example: The e-Health Directorate, which is part of the discussion. What are they doing? It's a very important job they're doing, they're working on getting the data we already have in the health care community to connect. It's not a small job either, it seems. And then they try to make this easily accessible to patients, maybe on their cell phone, etc. But this register is only about the types of data collected by the public health service itself. One does not take into account all the health data we collect in private through apps, etc. It is also mentioned in the setting that privacy is a challenge, since we are now beginning to get more and more patient information away because people upload different types of health history here and there. How are we going to do that? In one patient, one journal thought there's no thinking about it. So I would say that if the public health service were to take a stand on mobile health technology at all, one would have said – from the Minister for Health’s side – that from now on we are working to make it one journal per patient so that one as a patient can also upload their private data. So, as a patient, you can define whether this is data you want to share with the health service or not, but the point is that we need to have a safe place people can upload their health data, so that not everything – to put it at the head – ends up in the United States, where, of course, a good job is done, but where there is a completely different type of legislation on personal data. We know it can be sold, etc. Norway has a very unique starting point. We have the most highly technologically competent elderly people in the world. There are no older people in the world who are as competent in technology as those in Norway. Unfortunately, however, the health system is not rigged so that one uses this competence. What if we really took this inward and the Storing that whole thing went open-eyed into this and said, "We're too bad for now, now we're really going to have to raise this." It would have been stuttering.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1078	Effective and correct use of ICT is a prerequisite for the success of creating and developing the patient’s healthcare. New technological tools offer completely different opportunities to order services, communicate with the service, follow up on your own health, obtain information and access your own records. We are facing major challenges. Our welfare system is not adapted to population development. In the years to come, we're getting older, and we're living longer. This is a good social development, but at the same time we know that a 70-year-old uses about twice as much healthcare as a 40-year-old, and that you live longer with chronic diseases. If we're going to rust up society for the future, we're going to have to rethink the way we do the problems. The most important tool in this innovation is ICT, that we need to get better at thinking about using new technologies. There is a great potential here to streamline and free labour for other tasks. Technology creates new opportunities to involve and treat patients. Technology provides better opportunities for citizens to master their own life and health and can help more people live at home longer. Technology can also be used to provide more health and care for the resources we use, and there is a lot of good work going on in this area. Welfare technologies and mobile health technologies are part of this and are part of the National eHealth Action Plan. Mobile health technology will also be one of the areas for action in the forthcoming National Action Plan 2017. Mobile health technology is also part of the National Welfare Technology Programme, managed by the eHealth Directorate. This programme consists of several projects in which municipalities test technology for safety and mastery. Both welfare technology and mobile health technologies are used to remotely follow-up and treat patients with chronic diseases. The population goes from passive patients to active patients. The objective is that such technology will be part of the regular service offer by 2020. Norway is also participating in a project under the World Health Organisation and the International Telecommunications Union – Be He@lthy, Be Mobile. Mobile tools are used here to combat non-infectious diseases. I am concerned that we are conducting follow-up research to document the effect and gain in the course. We already have good results to show. Oslo Municipality has freed up a lot of time and resources by using technology to follow up and treat patients with chronic diseases. In addition to being economically profitable, welfare technologies also contribute to less strain on both health professionals and users. But the technology itself does not contribute to better services for the patient. We need to facilitate good framework conditions and stimulate the implementation of good solutions. It's going to pay off being smart. Real funding is a key to success. I would therefore like to look at how to set up the funding model and the financial instruments to support new forms of cooperation and the use of digital solutions. I am, like the representatives behind this proposal, concerned that we are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by technology. I have launched several actions that can help us achieve our objectives. Work is well under way on the long-term objective ‘one integrates — one journal’. In order to ensure national governance and coordination of ICT developments, we set up the eHealth Directorate on 1 January this year. I will also use legislation as a tool for national introduction and standardisation of ICT solutions. Regulation on ICT standards is already in place. The regulation will be developed over time, but we will continue to assess whether today’s provision is sufficient to achieve the objective of a common ICT functionality in the healthcare sector. All of this is important to ensure good ICT development in the healthcare sector in the future, and I am pleased that there is a broad commitment to this in the Storting. It is also important that we now implement the measures that actually lead to a change in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1097	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1100	I hear that the government parties are very pleased with the situation, and that we are knocking open doors with this proposal. Then I have to say, like Abelia and the Technology Council, that we are not satisfied with the situation as far as it is after two years of an action plan. We would like to see the proposals we make here incorporated into a new action plan. Then we're very satisfied. But I want to ask the Council of State about the conversion that goes on the tariff system. He says it should be done in 2017, and I think it is fine. I have asked questions about this to the State Council before in Stortinget. I get daily enquiries from people who are confused that this is not in place. Then I ask the Council of State: can he say that we get decisions along the way that can remedy a situation that too many people are unsustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1107	Firstly, it is not that the government and government parties are satisfied with the situation. If we had been satisfied with the situation, we wouldn't have initiated all the measures now taken to improve the situation. However, we are concerned that we are now implementing much of what is contained in the action plan, which concerns what has been called for for a long time as missing: lack of national governance, lack of standardisation, lack of updating of the legal basis and the need for changes in, among other things. the financing system. Changes have been made to the funding system, which makes e-consultation much more possible. So there are still improvements in this area. It's not like you're pushing these issues in front of you. You work systematically to change this and to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1112	In this case, I am busy taking lots of self-criticism from the red-green side. Even if one did things, it wasn't enough. I think it should also be the starting point for everyone here, that this is a field that comes at an enormous speed, and we're still striving to establish one journal in Norway, and one system that can talk to each other. We're kind of in step one in the ICT revolution, while the rest of the world -- or at least the possibilities in the world -- is in step three and four. What's my concern is that if we're too slow to develop something about this, this will create health differences, because those who have resources and competences will benefit from these private opportunities, while others won't. My question, which I tried to travel in my post, was about one, for example. could do something about the mission of the e-Health Directorate, that they should look at possibilities for mobile technology, its storage of data, to be used in journal systems. Has the Minister considered these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1119	What is one of the challenges in this area, for Norway and very many other countries, is that we are in a situation where we have to make quite large investments in the very core of the system, and must build it so that it is linked as a national system. That is what the concept of ‘one incorporates, one journal’ is about, and is now a main task for the Directorate of eHealth, where we hope to make important new decisions on the next steps in a relatively short time. It's like that kind of investment and that kind of decision isn't necessarily what gives the fastest results to the audience, but if we keep focusing on just the quick results, we're at risk of building them on sand ground. But there are also continuous improvements in what gives results to the audience. For example, the citizens of both Health West and Health Nord now have access to their own healthnorge.no journal, in the case of specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1126	I think that managing the amount -- let's call it health data -- that gets collected by the public, into one journal, one system that both the public health service and the patient can stick to is very, very important, and there's a kind of foundation wall in this work, something that one never gets past, something that we have to have. My impression is that many people think that then we're on target, while I think that what's now the great potential for the healthcare system, and that's also the big problem, is all the data that people collect from private people, which is just becoming more and more and more of, and that can actually also be relevant for the healthcare system, for the firm, or for the specialist services, to use. It could bring great health benefits to all, and then it should be opened as soon as possible in the design of the journal system so that one can also safely place their data there. Is this something that can be part of a next step of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1131	We are now working on the evaluation of the e-Health DG’s concept for ‘one citizen, one journal’, and I fully agree that a lot of information is now being collected by the individual through mobile technology. What we are concerned about, and I believe that the representative also agrees, is that it is very important that we take the right steps at the right time. That is why we also have our own eHealth Board, where all actors are represented, just to get an assessment of the actions to be taken when, so that we do not risk spending large resources on something that might seem a right and exciting solution, but is built on a system that is unable to maintain the future target picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1136	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1141	As we debate here, four parties present a consensus on the revised national budget, and it is clear that ICT and health education capacity should be strengthened by 200 new places of study, as an example of the particular competence we are now talking about to be strengthened. There is also one reason why the Left does not support the Labour Party’s proposal – a lot is happening. The Council of State should be commended for taking many important steps – the Directorate for eHealth, among others, to speed up adaptation, standardisation – and also to link more closely to the whole infrastructure. It is demanding when 428 municipalities will try to go a little bit closer, and very few of them want to cooperate more closely by becoming somewhat fewer municipalities. Telenor shall terminate the analogue telephone network. With it there are also many analog watch centres that will have to be built in the next few years and become digital. Today’s debate has reflected the fact that there are many major challenges, and therefore it is also demanding to create a strategy that meets all these challenges. The left has also been a driver for the development of the national welfare technology project. One of the important things about it is that there are so many patients participating in that project that we can do along-the- way evaluations and follow-up research, and we also need more of it. That's why I was in my main post saying that this we have to take step by step, and don't go too fast. We need to learn along the way, also to cooperate more with others — and other countries. That is why it is also important for the three-year project that the Nordic Council of Ministers has had to look at how we can work together in the Nordic region. There is also a similar project between the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries, which is well advanced in implementing new technologies. Then there is also the debate about who is going to come first and last, which we haven't been so much into here today – whether it's the older people who are going to take advantage of the technology first, or whether it's young people, who are, of course, quick to use new technology. A youth health strategy is at work, and it is also an example that something is happening here. Therefore, it is also important that we talk about mental health, where young people are curious about using new technologies to learn more about their own mental health challenges. So I look forward to an exciting continuation and believe that the measures that we have taken now are right at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1168	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1175	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on the subject. It's gone well. Then I have to be careful to correct a fairly material error. In the Commentary of the Right and Advance Party on page 2, paragraph No. 6, the setting says that the Fürst Medical Laboratory, Norway's largest laboratory, has 10,000 samples a year. It was a little small – they probably would not be Norway’s largest. The right thing is, it's 10,000 a day. There's a very significant difference, which it's okay to bring forward in the debate. But there are many things that are being treated. I also think it is important to bear in mind that when you read the proposal for a representative, it may look like this is about the EU Postal Directive, and that it is one of the consequences of putting the post down on Saturday. Of course it isn't. The EU Postal Directive has been adopted, but the Post Norway has asked for the possibility of no longer having postal services on Saturdays. The right or obligation they had is now removed, so that they no longer have to. The reason for this isn't that you want to get rid of the Post or make sure they get different terms, but it's actually because things happen. This society is moving forward, just like when we discussed mobile technology and welfare technology. That's exactly what's happened in the postal area, too. Before we used to send letters to each other. Today you send either e-mail or text messages to each other. It goes a little bit faster, and it makes it a little bit easier. This means that the amount of mail that is sent goes down sharply, while other things that are sent by post that are not exclusive, and for which the Post has not had sole responsibility, increase, because there are several people who choose to use the Internet. Then you get things sent home, but then it's not in the same area. There is good competition, and I think most people are very pleased with the opportunity you have to choose who will deliver the packages. I think most people also think that the Post is a very good supplier, just as others are good suppliers. But that's how the world has moved on. There are some people in this room who don't want to be involved in the change that is taking place, and who are involved in the evolution of the world, while others see the potential and the possibility. The entry is a typical enterprise that has just done so, where they have looked at new opportunities and new markets to continue to claim and be a successful enterprise and a large enterprise. Of course, when you make these kind of changes, it can have some negative consequences when it's not all the way around like it was before. That means you have to look at some other way of doing things. That's exactly what happened here, that you saw that there were some challenges, especially when it was about laboratory tests. But then health businesses have made sure to set up new schemes. Among other things, there are pick-up schemes that have been established and put in place. In addition, the Express item is used overnight, which means that the samples can still be presented as desired. I am very concerned that the Council of State and the Department are aware of the situation, follow closely and are concerned that patients should be treated in the best possible way and ensure good quality of the services to be provided to patients. Therefore, the Council of State has been clear in its letter of reply that around the economy there will be things that are included in the annual budgets. There is also a scheme in place to look at the possibility of a tender to reduce costs and to continue to provide equally good services – or perhaps even better services – but for a lower sum than what you pay now. I believe that this is well taken care of, and I also know that the industry is pleased that action has now been taken, so we must keep up with it. Then I expect the proposers and those who have other proposals to explain their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1194	Sectoral thinking is a heavy legacy in Norwegian politics. It prevents us from connecting some obvious connections. In the hearing on new postal laws and the changes that then came, with the loss of Saturday accommodation for the Post, the Health Directorate wrote in its opinion that alternative distribution was the general rule for the dispatch of biological samples to laboratory medical clinics for analysis. Now lab clinics all over the country report that this is not true. Sometimes it's actually the opposite. It is the Post that is the general rule in the distribution selection. Laboratory Medical Clinic at St. Olavs Hospital in Trondheim reported that in December 2015 the average number of samples for analysis on Saturdays was over 500. It's not a little. The Labour Party expects the Minister of Health to follow this up, as he says he will do, in a way that ensures patients and the challenges of health care. We are behind the minority's proposal in the vote, i.e. proposals No. 1-3, which I take up. This is not about wanting to participate in the future, as the representative and case-rapporteur Hoksrud said in his statement. This is about a lack of coordination, a lack of coordination, which has had adverse consequences for healthcare, and we expect the government to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1210	The representative of Kjerkol has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1213	Now we have a discussion and debate that the Post will no longer deliver goods and collect mail on Saturdays. The reason is that we don't send so many letters anymore. But there are some things that we cannot send by letter. There are some things that we can't send by e-mail, and that's blood samples and other biological material. It actually has to be transported, and it's fresh. If we are to get the good blood tests, the good answers and the right diagnosis, it must be transported within a given timeframe. We can't decide when to try. We know that disease comes unexpectedly, and we know that patients with chronic diseases can have relapses that make one have to try out on a Friday as well. The challenge in what has happened is that those who are the furthest from hospitals, those who have the worst coverage of permanent staff, and those who have the most distances, are those who currently also have the worst coverage in obtaining samples to be sent before the weekend: Telemark, Hedmark, Finnmark, are also poorly covered in the transport of biological material. This is a health challenge that we have to take responsibility for. We need to find a system that allows patients to get the material they need to get the diagnosis they need, and the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1220	On the homepages of the municipality of Vik, on 29 February of this year, one of the following could read: ‘The Norwegian Post has sent out information that all post-transmissions on Saturdays will end from 05 March 2016. It is a decision of magnitude that underlies the change, and it applies to the whole country. This means that Vik medical offices cannot take blood tests on Fridays when the tests become too old before they arrive at the hospital. We regret the disadvantages this has for our patients!’ The distribution section of Stortinget has obtained the following information from a medical office in Telemark: ‘Drangedal’s medical office describes a situation in which post-implantation stoppages on Saturdays have had major consequences. [[Telemark]] This doctor's office is just sending samples by mail. Medical sessions with sampling must therefore be planned for the first four days of the week. In case of emergency on Fridays where sampling cannot wait until Monday, patients must be sent by taxi to the hospital in Skien.» In the government's response, Vik and Drangedal are probably referred to as peripheral areas out of all colors. We're responding to this. The purpose of the specialist services is to provide equivalent health services to people, regardless of where they live in this country. Therefore, we cannot accept that a new postal law will have such consequences for Norwegian patients. So an improvement in the efficiency of the Post has sent the bill to Norwegian patients. When a postal law was introduced, it led to full liberalisation of the postal market, a liberalisation that led to the end of Saturday letter distribution from March 2016. It also reduced the supply of Norwegian patients to both doctors and hospitals because one could no longer take blood samples on Fridays, since they were not analysed until the weekend – and then risked becoming too old. In this way, some doctors only get four working days to consult to take blood tests. This is no trifle, this is a rather dramatic consequence of a law. As the representative of Kjerkol has said, this was not visible to the Stortinget. One had almost received other information about the consequences of taking blood tests. The Council of State writes in its reply that ‘new pick-up routes have been created on Fridays’. I react to the apparent acceptance of large regional differences here. It is reported that peripheral areas of the ‘Hedmark, Buskerud and Telemark’ need to be used more extensively. It's expensive, and it's not boring. In Finnmark, ‘only 7 of the 23 medical clinics’ is provided for pick-up services. There are these new changes that the Council of State is responding to, and it's actually not good enough. It is also advisable to read that a Council of State may print correctly that there will be ‘regional variations in the extent to which healthcare is affected’. When we know that there were as many as 350 medical clinics that were followed by post-laws, without the Storting being informed about this, and that one now says that these are «outside of the «all-farway» and have to provide alternative shipments», I might wish the Stortinget were more clear that this is unacceptable, here we should have temporary solutions, here we should ensure that this does not have financial consequences for healthcare professionals and municipalities, and here we should ensure long-term solutions, so that of course it should be a right for all patients to go to the doctor five days a week, and that a release either to come again another day, not to have that blood test or to be sent to a taxi to the hospital. The suggestions have been taken up, and I had hoped that they had got several today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1247	Like the proposers, the government is concerned with quality, patient safety and the efficient use of resources. The entry Norway terminated on Saturday from 5 March. This means that it will take longer from the time a sample is taken, if taken at the end of the week, until it is received in the laboratory and analysed if it is sent by ordinary mail. The durability of bioassays is limited and depends on temperature. Some analyses require transport time on the laboratory test sample for less than two to three days in order not to be destroyed. Some laboratory analyses are carried out at medical offices in the municipalities, but most samples are sent to larger laboratories, either privately or in hospital. The medical office sends analyses to the laboratory in two ways, either by pick-up service or by mail. If there is an offer of pick-up service from the laboratory, the doctor’s office will not be affected by the completion of the Saturday assignment. In order to compensate for the change in mail delivery, the scope of pick-up services has been increased both at private laboratories and at health care establishments. In addition, the expression services of the Item are now used instead of ordinary items. These compensatory measures mean increasing healthcare costs, but ensure that analysis is carried out on time without any disadvantage for the patient. Prince Medical Laboratory has a large share of the market. They provide information that they receive samples from approx. 1 200 doctors’ offices, or approx. 80 pst. of all offices. 20 pst. the analyses are received by post. Fürst has extensive collection services for about 850 medical clinics, mainly in the east and around the big cities of Bergen, Stavanger, Haugesund, Trondheim and Bodø. Due to the loss of mail delivery on Saturday, pick-up services are established on Fridays. Regional health establishments have established new pick-up routes on Fridays. The coverage of the pick-up routes is very different in the different regions. In Health South-East there is good coverage on the pick-up routes in the central eastern regions, while areas more peripheral in Hedmark, Buskerud and Telemark need to use the Posten express services to a greater extent. The express services provided by the post are a current option in parts of the country. The post office states that the Business Package Express Saturday covers almost all sections from Post in Store to the nearest letter terminal. The delivery deadline for Post in Store is the same for Business Package Express Saturday, as for A-mail and other letter products, as long as it is about packages to the same terminal area. There is therefore no significant restriction on the service offer compared to the customer's A-mail on the other days of the week, except that the package must be delivered to the nearest Post in Store. The mail has good coverage in the districts for more central strokes in the same district. According to the documentation I have today, there will be regional variations in the extent to which healthcare is affected. As described, several measures compensate for mail delivery on Saturday. Some analyses can be made at a doctor’s office, such as: INR studies, which show whether the patient needs blood thinners. Today, this test is being analysed at most medical clinics. Both Fürst and health care companies have developed a collection service for doctors. Health enterprises’ purchasing service, HINAS, is now working on a national acquisition to compensate for the changes in postal delivery. National acquisitions are expected to reduce the additional costs. Measures taken largely compensate for the closure of the mail transport on Saturdays. Further work is being done on establishing good solutions. It is important that the changes do not affect the patient. The budgetary implications will be addressed in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1269	I referred in my article to what was explained on the homepages of the municipality of Vik, that the inhabitants could no longer expect to have blood samples taken on Fridays – the same also from the municipality of Drangedal in Telemark. There are also many other municipalities that have the same problem. I read the answer from the Council of State and listen to the article, but I would like to know exactly how much time – how many months, years – the Council of State thinks it can go before you are sure that every medical office in Norway has the opportunity to take a blood test on Fridays.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1277	I understood, with the studies that have been carried out, that compensatory measures are now working well in all health regions, and the Business Package Express Saturday is available and covers almost all sections from Post in Store to the nearest letter terminal. I also expect the different doctors' offices to use the alternatives available, either from the Post Office or from the various retrieval systems already established in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1282	Health care professionals are shown to introduce collection schemes, but the Council itself says that there are regional differences, among other things. in Finnmark, there is only 7 out of 23 medical clinics. Will the Council of State accept that there are so many regional differences, and will the Council of State accept that a pick-up scheme only applies to some of the medical offices and not all?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1287	It will vary the arrangements used. It is essential that arrangements be established and can be used to ensure that a laboratory sample can also be taken on Friday. In some places, there will be pick-up arrangements that are the alternative; in others, you can use the Posten's offer of Business Package Express Saturday. It is the sum of the arrangements that are important and, where appropriate, other agreements with other transport service providers that can provide patients with the opportunity to obtain a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1292	I understand that the council refers to either the pick-up order or the express package at Posten. But the question is who is going to pay for this. The pick-up order is well paid by the companies, at least Health Nord has paid NOK 20 000 per week to set up a scheme in Troms. There will be significant resources for healthcare professionals. If you want to use A-mail, the municipalities will pay it. There's certainly significant resources, I haven't seen any calculation of it. How will the Council of State ensure that the individual doctor’s office is able to take action or demand something from the health care establishment without any financial burden on the municipality or medical clinics and without, for example: must cut during the opening hours and the patient’s treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1297	For 2016, the various actors have to deal with this within the budgets allocated to them, and the budgetary implications for 2017 are back in the budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1305	The reason why I take the floor in this matter is that the Post is under the Transport Committee. I just want to inform the Council of State – and to the extent that the Storting – about it, because I understand that here you might be taken to bed a little bit. At least it can be heard that way, from the point of view of the vote and from the point of view of the debate. So I can already notify you that there is a cancellation message out there, Meld. St. 31 for 2015–2016, on the postal sector as amended. Those who think it's dramatic, what's happened now about removing the Saturday post, can expect new, big challenges. For in this document, there is a proposal to also remove the A-post as soon as possible, due to costs. There is also a proposal for the Post to be authorised to increase the scope of exemptions for those remaining with five days of distribution. Today, 318 have been exempt for five days per week. With the lead that's here, it could be opening up to actually up to 10 pst. may be exempted from five days. It will make up as much as 240,000 people. Now it is correct that it is not to be introduced from day one, but it is a letter of access to the Post. It also states that for the health sector, the extra cost of collection of the A-post is estimated to be 25 million. kr. So the reason I took the floor was that we might not have an interpellant debate in a year, but that the parties that are affected by this message, already looked at whether it was natural to record things that we could bring with us. The notification is otherwise processed for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1343	The first speaker is the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik, who is the rapporteur on matters. The number is up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1346	I can reassure the assembly that I will not take advantage of that speaking time. There is an overall committee that presents both the law and the reporting regulation. The Reporting Regulation obliges organisations, Member States and the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA, to establish voluntary reporting mechanisms supplementing the current mandatory. Voluntary reporting allows persons who are not subject to the reporting obligation to report, and it also allows persons who are subject to the reporting obligation to report matters other than their reporting obligations. It is important that the reporting Regulation is broadly in line with information that has been reported on a voluntary basis with information that is required to be reported. The most important aspect of this is that the information cannot be used as a basis for penalties — the protection rules. None of the hearing bodies has commented on the provisions of the Regulation on voluntary reporting. The voluntary reporting scheme will be a positive contribution to the existing Norwegian reporting system. The main change from the Reporting Directive to the Reporting Regulation is likely to provide EU rules with greater protection for the reporter from adverse consequences of reporting — whether voluntary or mandatory — and whether the report is the beneficiary is the country or the organisation for which the reporter works. Because the aviation law already goes further in protecting the rapporteur than the reporting directive, the reporting regulation essentially means that EU Member States are now being raised to about the same level of protection as we already have in Norway. The Reporting Regulation specifies that the protection rules cover not only employees rapporteurs but also contracted personnel and self-employed persons working for establishments covered by the reporting schemes. This has also been a preferred interpretation in the past, but it is positive that this has been clarified now that at the same time there is a trend towards more use of contracted personnel and contractors in aviation. Whether this formal extension is sufficient to ensure that non-employee personnel report as much as employed personnel remains to be seen. The EU Commission has commissioned the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA, to assess whether new developments in the aviation industry are creating new safety concerns and the use of non-employed personnel is one of these developments. It is also said that there will still be actors who will not be covered by the legislation. Contractors hired by crew companies outside the EU/EEA borders will not, in reality, be protected against sanctions by employers when reporting conditions that may have safety implications. With regard to the economic impact of the proposal, the Air Safety Authority says that they will need to use some resources to implement and manage the new rules, but that this could be done within the current budgetary framework. The organisations that choose to use a different reporting solution than the current Altin solution using the NF-2007 form need to calculate the costs of getting such a solution in place. Avinor estimates the total cost of about one annual work, in addition to the undeclared investment costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1382	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1396	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1403	I would first of all like to thank the rapporteurs and, secondly, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for their good work. An overall committee is behind the proposal for a decision. It is very pleasant and necessary to ensure good framework conditions for short sea shipping and to obtain more goods from road to sea. For generations, Norway has been among the largest shipping nations in the world — a position that has created, and still creates, great values for Norway. It is maritime transport that brings Norway out into the world and the world to Norway. Short sea shipping is Norway's main transport vessel, both along the Norwegian coast and to and from ports in Europe. It plays a crucial role in the transport needs of industry and the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, it contributes to value creation and 14 000 jobs along the coast, and it is an important player in the Norwegian maritime cluster. The Committee points out that there is a broad political consensus to facilitate the transfer of goods from road to sea. The Committee would point out that this includes, inter alia: has been expressed through the vote of the Innst. 213 S for 2014-2015, where a total increase adopted a number of proposals to strengthen the competitiveness of short sea shipping in order to stimulate increased transport of goods by road to sea, such as strengthening the Coastal Works, improving and simplifying the framework conditions for short sea shipping, temporary system of subsidies for freight transmission, low emission technology incentives, wreckage schemes and better depreciation rates. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that several of these acts have been followed up, including the establishment of an old ship wreck mechanism and an innovation loan scheme to build new ships with a 2016 framework of 40 million. kr. Furthermore, measures have been promoted to improve port efficiency through the port cooperation grant and investigations are ongoing or completed. The Committee would point out that several reports, including: from the DNV-GL and the Transport Economic Institute, it appears that the transfer of goods from road to sea and rail, inter alia: involves a reduction in environmental impact and a reduction in the risk of accidents, injuries and fatalities in traffic. The Committee notes that the NTP Freight Analysis report was submitted in September 2015 and will be part of the knowledge base of the National Transport Plan. The Committee notes that the report shows that there are grounds for transferring between 5 million and 7 million. tonnes of today's goods by road and sea. The Committee considers that there is a high potential for freight transmission in Norway if the framework conditions so facilitate. I am very pleased to announce that an overall committee considers it necessary to take several types of measures to achieve freight transport and that it is important to include operators in the industry in the development of a comprehensive strategy for short sea shipping. I'm also very pleased that an overall committee suggests that 30 pst. of transport work over 300 kilometres currently on the road may be transferred to rail or sea by 2030 and 50 pst. by 2050. The next NTP will take Norway a major step towards the low-carbon society. The goals of Stortinget today can help to move 300,000 trucks away from our road network. There will be less burden on the road network, fewer accidents and better for the environment. The Committee would point out that more people, including Short Sea Promotion Center, highlighted the need to introduce subsidy schemes for goods owners that could contribute to the creation of new maritime freight routes. The Committee would point out that the Stortinget i Innst. 213 S for 2014-2015, cf. Decision No 488, asked the government to draw up a temporary system of subsidies for the transfer of goods. The Committee notes that the transport rates set out in the basic document of NTP 2018-2029 have done so and shows how such a system can be set up. The Committee considers it important that the scheme is temporary, targeted at specific projects and contributes to the documented and sustainable transfer of goods with environmental benefits. The Committee asks the government in the 2017 budget to make concrete proposals that will stimulate more owners of goods to choose the maritime route. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refer to the hearing, where several of the hearing bodies pointed out that the port infrastructure in Norway is characterised by fragmented ownership and lack of coordination. Since there is a very short time left, I jump to the suggestions that the Left has made with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. We want to record these. Since we do not know how the voting will end, we may, in a subsidiary way, vote in favour of the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, where it is called for to make this assessment as part of the NTP for 2018-2029.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1435	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1438	For the Workers' Party, it is very important that we use the sea route for the transport of the most possible goods. As it is often said: the seaway is infrastructure that is finished broken and finished salt. Compared to road-side measures and not least railway infrastructure, public use of funds for ports, fairways and coastal management is very small. We must be closed by importing low and zero emissions before shipping. We must also continue to exploit the potential of this important sector. We must further develop the prism of our long coastline. We worked actively on this when we put in government, and set significant amounts to strengthen the possibilities for short sea shipping for the current NTP period 2014-2023. This area has been important in our alternative budgets so far in this ageing period, and will also be important when we in the Labour Party are to present our alternative transport plan in spring 2017. I can promise that this will also be followed up if the country receives a new government after the election next year. The current government has not been able to strengthen short sea shipping as a top priority in transport policy. Although the Minister for Transport will today bring forward price-effective measures such as the reduction of the unloading charge, the Ministry’s own summary of the 2016 state budget shows that there is still a failure to implement the measures set out in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. In my opinion, the fact that the committee, as part of the handling of the cases, had its own hearing, has been quite a matter of decision, so that the committee could then reassemble itself with an offensive attitude, to which the case-speaker just referred. There is no doubt that the various actors involved in maritime transport through this hearing gave a clear signal and showed clearly that this has not happened enough in the last few years. A follow-up rate of 18 pst. three years into the transport plan speaks its clear language. In the reply letter to the Storting, the Council of State also focuses more on what limits the growth potential of shipping, than on the potential for greater freight volumes to travel the sea. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that, in the committee's work on the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, there is a mass accumulation that is behind ambitious objectives for the part of goods to be transported on the keel in the future. I would therefore like to pay tribute to both the Christian People's Party and the Left who have been included in the government party. And then we're going to put it on the quota for a strong marker need and a strong open loyalty to the government that the supporting parties together with the government party the day before the committee presented the vote, through the press this presented as a four-party civil agreement on the heavy shipment of goods from the road to the sea. Well, this political power collection to take action that strengthens the competitiveness of maritime transport, it is several of us who are part of it. The important thing now is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are to get the government to go from word to action in the budgets that are now to be decided. It has not been able to obtain the supportingparts through budgetary differences in recent years. And it helps, as little is known about representative proposals and ambitious goals, without this being followed up with concrete actions and activity. What we hope for in the Workers' Party is that the government now assumes that we need to bet and not just talk about short sea shipping, and that this will be reflected in a real commitment to the state budget for 2017 in line with the transport plan of the Stoltenberg II Government and the short sea shipping strategy presented by Lisbeth Berg-Hansen at the time we had our own coastal minister. Only then can these ambitions we are today some about, also become reality. I would like to make a proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1474	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1477	First of all, I will pay tribute to the Christian People's Party to promote this proposal for a representative and give us the opportunity to debate an important issue, and not least because we have agreed on two important issues: Firstly, to establish a short sea shipping strategy with concrete measures to make short sea shipping more competitive and environmentally friendly; secondly, to have a clear objective of transferring 30 pst. of goods of a journey length exceeding 300 km and currently travelling by road, sea or rail With these steps, what we have already taken in action, and what will come in the national transport plan, we go from words to actions in strengthening maritime transport as a preferred alternative to long-term freight transport. Norway has a long coast, and it should be well equipped to use highway 1 more than what we are doing today. The transport sector accounts for a significant proportion of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. We do that not by stopping building roads, but by developing new technologies and stimulating more people to choose the sea and the track when the goods are coming. That is why I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties have prioritised environmental technology in the three budgets presented: We have increased the budgets for research and innovation. It also provides the basis for increased research efforts in this area. We've strengthened Enova and merged into Transnova. It has provided a significantly greater muscle for environmental technology and low- and zero-emission solutions in the transport sector. A good example of that is just under 300 million. kr to the County of Hordaland to facilitate low- and zero-emission ferries. Grants to shore-side electricity through Enova are another measure. Enova recently distributed 82 million. kr in grants to 13 ports throughout the country. The Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway has doubled in this period. Several are receiving grants for the development of new technologies. In the revised state budget for 2016, the government has proposed to set at 65 million. a new scheme to stimulate the development and use of environmental technologies, both in public and private activities. Moving goods from road to sea and rail has a good environmental impact, but is also important to relieve the road network, increase road safety and improve accessibility. That is also why the government and the parties have prioritised this in the budgets so far through: increased railway investment: investment and maintenance/renewal budgets have increased significantly. Increased predictability on the rail gives more goods on the road; reduced fees on maritime transport by approx. One hundred million. kr, which strengthens the competitiveness of short sea shipping; to have improved the fairway system, which saves industry from excessive expenditure; to have environmentally differentiated unloading emergency charges; to have port cooperation grants; to have a more efficient port structure. 28 have applied, demonstrating a need for more port cooperation in Norway; having established a short-sea shipping fleet short-haul air conditioning system to stimulate increased replacement of older vessels. In addition, we have doubled the checks on heavy goods transport and arranged for everyone to pay tolls and other charges, as they should. It makes competition between road, rail and sea fairer and strengthens the relative competitiveness of maritime transport. This clearly shows that we've done a lot already, as opposed to the previous speaker pointed out. But even though we have already taken some action, today's decision will give a clear objective for the transfer of goods from road to sea and track. The analysis of freight that has been developed in the context of the NTP process shows that maritime transport already plays a central role in freight transport. At the same time, the freight analysis shows that there is a potential to move between 5 and 7 million. tonnes from road to sea and track. This will mean significantly fewer trucks on Norwegian roads. It will have an environmental impact, but it will also reduce road network wear and tear and increase road safety. A short sea shipping strategy with concrete measures will give us a more holistic approach to maritime transport and its role in the transport system. A strategy will never be good without being followed up by concrete measures. It is therefore important that the work on the short sea shipping strategy be coordinated with the national transport plan. National transport plan looks at all modes of transport in a coherent manner and will be a good tool to bring about a clearer focus on efficient logistics hubs, with efficient ports and freight terminals and a well-functioning infrastructure related to ports. I am pleased that we are now further strengthening the investment in maritime transport, and I look forward to the further work on both the short sea shipping strategy and the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1539	Does the representative wish to take up the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1542	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1547	The representative, Helge Orten, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1550	Strengthening the framework conditions for short sea shipping is good in order to get more goods on track and sea. This is a topic that has been discussed in many forums for many years. But one thing is to talk about it, another thing is to put action behind the words. The four bourgeois parties have already shown that we are engaged in maritime transport and its competitiveness. Several measures under way for the 2016 budget will save more than 100 million. kr. This is and has been an important contribution to making short sea shipping more competitive with better framework conditions. In order for more goods to be moved from road to sea and track, there are many types of measures that need to be taken. In order to achieve this, industry actors should be included here in order to work together to find the right solutions for success in this work. Despite the industry’s last year’s tax relief, the industry continues to point out that the tax burden and the number of fees paid by maritime transport constitute a competitive disadvantage. Much has already happened in a short time. The government provided national port strategy a few years ago. Many in the industry believe this is a good plan that goes in the right direction because it well describes what today's challenges are, and also points out a good direction for the future. In order to succeed in a good overall strategy for short sea shipping, several factors are involved. It is not just about fees, but equally important is more cooperation between ports and more efficient ports. In addition, it is important that good routes of supply are provided for both the car and the track. It's an ambitious target for moving goods from road to sea that this is being added up to. Significant amounts of goods are already carried on the sea and the track, but now at least there is a goal and a basis for wanting to do something about it and not just talk. Now, the fact that we want to move a lot more goods out of the way doesn't mean that we don't still have to carry large quantities of goods on the road. There is still a lot to be carried on a car where it is appropriate. This is equally about increasing safety by improving multiple routes of administration. In some ports there is so little roadway that it goes beyond the safety of too many road accidents involving trailers due to poor roads. In addition, there are now routes that could have been more and more effective if one could use the sea route instead of having unnecessary loads, for part of what is being transported is going into Europe and the world. By now providing more goods on the sea and on the track, there will be fewer trailers on some sections of the road and thus less wear on the road network. With that, security will also increase. However, trailers will and will continue to be an important means of transport in future freight transport. In order to succeed with a good plan, the Progress Party believes that it should be seen in the context of the national transport plan. Plans must not become plans that beat each other in half. Plans must be seen in the context. A boundary doesn't stop at a state, it doesn't stop at a car, it doesn't stop at track, it doesn't stop at sea. We have to think completely about transport for the future. That's what gives good transport for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1572	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for handling the matter through the Committee in a great way. I would also like to pay tribute to all my colleagues in the committee for having given their support to an ambitious proposal. The strength of today's decision lies in the political momentum behind it. This is a good day for us who are engaged in socio-economic and environmentally friendly transport. It is also a good day for us who will reduce accidents, road wear and cows. One ship can take up to several hundred trailers off the road. NTP Freight Analysis gives indications that 300000 trailers can be taken off the roads if the transfer potential is exploited. It will provide fewer trailers through communities and agglomerations across the country; we can see fewer lives destroyed by ugly meeting accidents with car combinations; less often winter roads will be closed by trailers across, and more people will have a lighter life, as a result of smaller suspended dust and lower environmental emissions. There is an increasing awareness of environmental and climate challenges. Individuals, organisations, industries and authorities want to reduce environmental and climate-damaging emissions. The Paris climate agreement, the Storting climate agreement and other climate policy commitments mean that we must jointly take a significant responsibility for reducing our climate impact. Maritime transport is in its own league when it comes to climate and environmental friendliness. Nevertheless, there is an ambition in the industry that shipping will become even more environmentally friendly. For example, the Shipowners' Association has: a zero-emission visa to which all members have agreed, and the vision is that Norwegian shipping shall not have environmentally harmful emissions to sea or air. It requires a lot of industry, but it also requires a lot of us as organizational authorities. Investment in new eco-innovation ships is very expensive and requires long-term sustainability. By adopting targets that give a clear direction today, we are making choices easier for actors facing new investments. A predictable and ambitious short sea shipping policy makes it safer for the industry to take on commitments and to implement investments that take maritime transport in a more environmentally friendly direction. New ships with new and modern eco-technologies lead to significant reductions in climate and environmental emissions. We have good examples of that. In 2015, Nor Lines launched two freight ships, called “Kvitnos” and “Kvitbjørn”, both of which operate on LNG. The reduction in emissions compared to emissions to previous ships is enormous: 38 pst. CO2 reduction, 90 pst. NOX reduction and 100 pst. SOX reduction. We need more such success stories. That is why it is so important that we today adopt ambitious targets that can take us several steps towards more environmentally friendly and socially viable freight transport. In order to achieve the objectives, it is necessary to stimulate the use of the sea route. The owners of the goods are those who decide how the goods are to be moved, and the effort must therefore be directed towards the owners of the goods. That is why I am pleased that we are today deciding that, in the context of the 2017 state budget, measures should be put in place to stimulate the choice of shipowners by sea rather than by road. This can be done by introducing a temporary subsidy scheme for owners of goods who can demonstrate that they are moving goods from country to sea. Such schemes have been implemented in other countries and in the EU. At home, Borregaard has been part of such a scheme and can point to impressive results. The share of their goods going by sea increased from 15 to 35 pst. as a result of the grant scheme, and the proportion has been maintained even after the end of the grant. In addition, it will be essential for the forthcoming short sea shipping strategy to contain concrete and effective measures. A better charging and charging regime for maritime transport, the efficiency and modernisation of pilot services, measures for more efficient port processes, the improvement of infrastructure in and around ports, the regionalisation and specialisation of port structures are all measures that should be taken into consideration when the short sea shipping strategy is to be developed. It is also important that the industry be involved in the development of the strategy, so that action is taken and has the desired effect. The proposals that the Christian People's Party has been in, I think I've already been brought up, so I don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1607	The proposals have been duly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1610	It's important that we manage to move as much goods as possible over to sea and track. As has already been said, the maritime route is completely salted and broken, it is ready to be put into service. So you can ask yourself, why isn't it used anymore? The freight analysis has highlighted some challenges that it is important to follow up both in a short sea shipping strategy and in a national transport plan. It is also right that the representative of Rommetveit points out that there is no follow-up in NTP for short sea shipping and maritime transport. In the hearing held by the Committee, all the hearing bodies were very clear that there was not enough follow-up in this area. Several measures were cited. It pointed to the need for a short sea shipping strategy, pointed to ambitious technology measures, and pointed out that an incentive system would be in place for each owner to make more people choose the sea route. It was quite co-ordinated from all actors – almost to the right – to the left. It's important that we think about how to get goods transferred. A completely different priority must be given. I have met the Coastal Harbour Alliance several times – I expect the representatives to be familiar with it – where they try to transfer the transport of fish as far as possible away from the road and over by boat. Now you are really waiting for measures that can remedy, because they have come a long way in planning. It has been seen that it is possible both in terms of price and competence, there are no challenges like this. But they need an incentive mechanism to get it done, and they need to invest in ports. It's important that we at Stortinget contribute. I am very pleased that the Committee is so in agreement that there is a need for a short sea shipping strategy. There is an overall committee which considers it important to establish a short sea shipping strategy with measures to strengthen the framework conditions of short sea shipping. And you agree that targets need to be set both in the short term and for the future. It is important that we manage to follow it up in the various budgets ahead. The Central Party considers that a short-haul shipping strategy is important. We believe that a subsidy scheme for the transfer of goods is important. We need to lift the short sea shipping. This has meant that in view of a port plan, we were really very in doubt about all the proposals that were there, because the port is linked to other types of infrastructure – you can't tear the port off the road and track. Actually, neither the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party nor the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left seem to have been sufficiently precise. Having said that, we have finally, on the basis of an overall assessment, the country that we support the proposals No. 3, 4 and 5 because we think that short sea shipping needs an extra lift. In addition, short sea shipping and ports and traffic controllers must also have a strong feature of the national transport plan and be provided next year. We also expect this to be prioritised in the 2017 state budget. There's someone here who sits tighter on the process and should follow it. I reacted a little to the procedure. The Committee may have chosen a time frame that was not good enough, but overall we have come out positively. I also reacted to the fact that four of the parties presented a package before the matter was given, and a good part of the proposals that were there were supported by the Central Party, like the Workers' Party. It should have been clear that this was unanimous on the part of Stortinget with a view to wanting to do things to lift short sea shipping further. Finally, I am promoting the proposal on which the Central Party is involved – although it has actually been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1627	It's properly promoted, so it'll get over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1630	Maritime transport is an important industry, both for the country in terms of employment and value creation and because it is an integral part of the transport sector in Norway. 75 pst. of all cargo that takes place in this country is already carried out on ships. It's before a rainer with oil and gas. It goes without saying that an industry that is very important for the wheels to walk around our society is an industry that we should provide for has good conditions. I'm actually going to travel all over the coast with different types of ships in the last two weeks of June, just to experience how the decommissioning, coastguard, coastal works and various types of ships interact with each other, and to experience what works well, and what we have to do a job with. I feel that the debate we have had now, and the proposals of the Christian People's Party point in the direction that the government wants. One supports the course, even if one gives clear information that one should have a full gas ahead. I think that's very good. It is important that we create a good framework and have an attractive transport offer, so that those who buy transport in our country choose shipping and rail, preferably in combination. Then it's about having both good frequencies and good volume, and also looking at what we can do to reduce costs. Part of the government’s approach is also to ensure that competition in the market is overall fair, not only between shipping companies but also between the various modes of transport. Knowing that there have been some unprofessional players in the vehicle train industry who contribute to a lower cost level than what is proper, the efforts we have made for increased control and stricter rules to take out the unprofessional players are part of the work for a better balance in the market. I think it's a little strange to hear from the opposition that nothing has happened. Then at least it is worth pointing out that it would have been interesting if the opposition could point out one single instrument that the previous government had, which has been removed by today's government. It doesn't exist. Then it's actually a sign that for too long you haven't done the grips yourself like a shell. Because when one lists the grips that several have already taken, things that are already going on and during work, the list becomes quite a long one. So a national port strategy, the first of its kind, has been put forward. There are also grant schemes worth more than 10 million. kr to improve port cooperation. It's okay to bring before one comes with too much criticism. A pilot project has been undertaken to reduce the costs for many, especially in the area of short sea shipping, and to increase the use of evidence of fairway. It also means lower costs. Through Enova, which has record money, several support schemes are already available. I cannot quite see the need to establish parallel support schemes, both in Enova, and outside Enova, when the purpose of Enova is clearly defined. Enova has, among others: supported the expansion of rural power plants in many places, and in the State budget a low electricity charge for the use of shore-side electricity was imposed on the bourgeois parties. There is a system of wreckage, which means that the replacement of old short sea shipping ships has an economic incentive in itself. It is better for environmentally friendly ships than for less environmentally friendly ships. It's under today's government and today's majority, for example. reduced charges to ensure that ships of up to 8000 gross tonnes do not pay a disembarkation fee. Ships of less than 70 metres do not pay a safety charge. And if you have a high score on environmental indices, you don't pay a fee no matter how big you are. So it's a tax reduction of 86 million. kr. I remember that when I myself sat in opposition and the previous government came with a fee reduction of between 10 and 15 million. kr, it was a big bet. So now the tax relief is only in the 2016 budget of almost 90 million. kr. In addition, the revised budget includes: a green technology support scheme to make competitive, environmentally friendly shipping more attractive again. It's happening a lot. Are we on target? No, in no way, because we started off on quite a hill, but I think we're showing a direction that the Storting is now in fortifying. We will take that effort further, and it will appear in the national transport plan, which will be presented in less than a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1652	My fairly good colleague, Mr Juvik, asked the Council of State, Mr Solvik-Olsen, in the Question Time some time ago, about how he addressed the criticism as, among other things, NHO Logistics and Transport have directed towards the government for the lack of follow-up of NTP in its area of short sea shipping. The council then answered something such as that it was a criticism he took with crushing calm. We're only allowed to take note of that. But does the Council of State think that those who are closest to the industry in this case, and who are calling for concrete follow-up to the measures already presented, do not have insight and do not understand their own best?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1657	We have very good contact with many individual companies, but not least with the professional organisations. I take the criticism from the Workers' Party with a crushing calm, because what we hear from the trade unions is usually much more nuanced. There is no doubt that professional organisations want more subsidies. Anyone I talk to who can get free money, usually tends to say yes to it. But what we're pointing out is that we also see that it's not just the follow-up figure at national transport level that's the important thing, but the totality that happens. For example, the percentage follow-up of NTP does not reflect the fee reductions made. Had a brought with them, one would see that one lay far better off. One sees that we are in front of the form when it comes to repairing traffic controllers. It is an important part of the competitive situation of the shipping companies. It helps little to have ships if one does not enter the ports with them. We see that a job is done to reduce the cost of handling goods in ports. It is also an important part of the industry’s competitiveness. So even though there is a lot left, I think we have a very good dialogue with the industry, and we don't have the impression that the Workers' Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1662	I think I refer to NHO Logistics and Transport correctly. In addition, I see the Council of State from previous debates there that it is not overly enthusiastic about the numbering of years and percentages, for example. in the field of climate policy, but rather call for concrete action. But I don't think it's going to be any different. Concrete objectives must be followed up by concrete measures. Can the Council of State promise that he will return to the 2017 state budget with a strong commitment, so that the ambitions that we now jointly adopt today can also become a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1667	From the government and from the majority of the Stortinges' side, there is already a strong commitment to achieving those goals, so it would be nothing new. But it's about continuing and wanting to increase the course further. When I point out in several debates that setting a year is not the most important thing for a politician to do, but actually to come up with tools to meet the targets, it is simply because one under the previous government promised to clean Kårstø gas power plants by 2009 – the discussion was about 1 January 2009 or 31 December 2009 – and I am not yet aware of the gas power plant cleaned. A promise to clean Mongstad by 2014 – I am aware that the plant has not yet been cleaned. So instead of coming up with ever new dates without the instruments being linked, I am more concerned about getting a discussion about what the policy is, and there I do not register any action from the Workers' Party in addition to what the government is already doing. On the other hand, I note that in many political debates we are told that the Labour Party has promised 50 million. kr for ferry operations, and that one gives the impression that the government is doing nothing, even if the government has already granted more than 350 million. kr for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1672	I note the support of the Centre Party for proposals from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We appreciate that very much, they'll get the necessary majority. Then I also take note of the criticism that came from both Rommetveit and Janne Sjelmo Nordås, and I can well admit that here we have potential for improvement. It could well have been done in a different way, for there is no doubt that an overall committee is behind moving the most possible goods away from the road and over to the sea and the path. As far as my question to the Council of State is concerned, such an investigation will come, but pending that investigation, I hope that the Council of State can have a plan for how, in the meantime, we can also help to make ports more efficient, what can be done for them to cooperate better, for them to become more environmentally friendly. Does the Council have any thoughts about how to work towards this and until such an investigation is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1680	This work is already under way, because a national strategy for action has been put forward and a strategy presented must also be intended to actually implement and implement it. There's money in there. We have a lot of meetings with the port industry, and I'm not going to least have the last two weeks now in June. At the same time, we are working against Enova, precisely because they are the professionals who manage the grant schemes adopted by the Stortinget and on which the government wholeheartedly supports – that the money should be spent in the best possible way. Not least, we are working towards a national transport plan, which will be the big document. I noticed that the Workers' Party believed that before they had a Coastal Minister, unlike now. In the past, a Minister for Fisheries was responsible for the port. Now we have a Minister of Transport responsible for the port. You can only guess which of the themes will ensure that the transport industry is kept as close as possible. I believe it is under today's responsibility, so just a strong reinforcement has been made for the benefit of the ports and for short sea shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1687	We are so accustomed to the fact that the Council of State will not listen to the Workers' Party and their claims, but I will try again. I was present at the lunch meeting on 12 April with NHO Maritime, and there they pointed out to the NTP where they boast that it is set at 300 fresh million annually – aid for infrastructure investment in designated ports, aid for freight hubs in port regions, incentive schemes for the movement of goods from road to sea, funds for the mapping of goods that can be transferred to maritime transport. And their characteristic was that the government doesn't follow up. It should actually be a matter for the National Audit Office, were the words used by the NHO. At the hearing they repeated the same point. Then you can try to ignore it. But my question to the Council of State is: he has shown that he will not follow up on the NTP as the red-green submitted. Can we now trust that the Council of State will follow up the document adopted tonight?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1694	The government always follows the decisions of the Storting – that is our duty, and we do. I also have a lot of contact with the NHO, and we get a very constructive feedback on what you have to do more of, and what you think is good on track. What is not mentioned in the list of representatives of Juvik is the charging policy, where today's majority, today's government has said that reducing the tax burden on industry is also a way of supporting it. We could maintain the level of fees and rather distribute the money into subsidies, but the net impact on industry would have been exactly the same. Then it's a little interesting when the representative Juvik takes up the Riksrevision, because the Riksrevision looked at the short sea shipping and the port bet when the Stortinget discussed it for approx. one and a half years ago. It was a total slaughter. It was a total slaughter of the short sea shipping policy and port policy conducted under the previous government. It's a little strange that the representative Juvik has completely forgotten it, and it's actually the Riks revision's last review of the policy that the Workers' Party was in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1703	I didn't quote the Riksrevision. It was the NHO -- just to clarify it. It is a little more reassuring that it will be followed up now when there is a proposal with a wide opening in the back of the Stortinget. At least we can see that it has not been done based on the otherwise well-followed NTP. I will challenge the Council of State at another moment, getting more goods across from the road to the sea. Then we know that the boat offer, which was an extension of the Nordlandsbahn, was dropped, and that it is now working to find a solution. How will the Council of States work together on a solution to get to the path that used to go north at the end of the Northern Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1712	First, I think it's a little strange that you try to create conflict when the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left are actually behind exactly the same proposals as everyone else. So it's a monotonous big thing that adopts a lot of things, and then gives the impression that it's something other than what the government is doing. I can say that we have such good contact with our own representatives from the Right and the Advance Party that there is actually a consensus here. Then it is true that the representative Juvik was not the one who quoted the Riksaudition, but I pointed out that the Riksaudition has seen the Labour Party's port and short sea shipping policy in the maps, and that was a reasonable slaughter of the situation. With regard to the different routes where we could have had the advantage of getting new liners, I myself have been asked in many conferences and debates to both replace ‘Tege’, get fishing transport better in place and get a base in the West. There are exciting things we're working on, and not least Enova will be the one that triggers funds for that kind of bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1721	As the representative, Juvik, pointed out, there was a short-haul shipping strategy that was little followed up, at least if we were to listen to those who were at the hearing of the Transport Committee. One of the measures that were there was an incentive mechanism for more goods to be transferred from road to sea, and it has now been followed up for several years. When we have discussions about the state budget, representatives come from the port industry and ask us to get it in place. Now there is a proposal – which gets a majority – asking the government in the 2017 budget to make concrete proposals that will stimulate more owners of goods to choose the maritime route. Will the Council of State take action in the direction requested by the port industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1732	We've been in government for the 31 months, working hard to strengthen shipping in general, and short sea shipping in particular. I remind you again that in the charging policy we have ensured that short-haul shipping ships up to 8 000 gross tons no longer pay a ransom charge. Vessels less than 70 metres are no longer paying a safety charge. That means a lot to those ships. So there's a lot going on, and I think it's a little strange time and time again to experience that there are different areas of transport policy being discussed without the opposition taking into account the decisions that are actually taken. It is okay that someone thinks that it is not good enough, or that someone has alternative proposals, but when the debate is about a later one like it has not taken place, the debate becomes a little pointless. We're going to continue the work we've been doing, and I think we're getting good marshalls from what the Storting decides here. I do not feel that there is a change in course, but on the contrary that there is a quite collective Norwegian political environment that wants the same direction, and we will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1737	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1740	Let me first of all congratulate the proposers on their seemingly slipping the government, not to say at sea, in this matter. Last week's news that the government and the cooperation parties are now moving more goods from road to sea, I also thought brilliant, even though the terms «to open doors» and «new clothes of the emperor» have never been better suited. We don't have to wait for the next national transport plan. The size has already adopted most of what is being adopted today. This was done by Stortinget in the treatment of the current NTP. A short sea shipping strategy has already been developed. I brought it with me, and in case the council doesn't have a copy, he can bring it with him. He would perhaps have read it before he now goes out on his great coastal journey, which I would rather recommend that he take in the autumn or winter to get a good enough impression. What is tragic is that the government has not followed up what the Storing has decided. That's three million. kr in the current NTP, so it is only for the Minister of Transport to make proposals in the budget, he gets a majority for measures to move goods from road to sea. It is twice tragic for the environment, because while the Minister for Transport has been busy driving E6, with or without DDE, nothing is happening on the coast of his area of responsibility. Everyone's talking about the green shift. Moving more goods across the sea is green shift. But it is not least tragic for those who are working on bombs just to get boat routes started in order to get more goods transported by sea. We have a very concrete project from Middle Norway where the Coastal Harbour Alliance has established a cooperation with a Danish shipping company. They are ready to move 13,000 salmon trailers annually from road to sea. For them, the uncertainty is related to return loads, which is, of course, an important part of bringing the economy together. So now they've been talking well about political leadership in the Ministry of Transport for almost a year. The Government of Stoltenberg II has just proposed an incentive scheme to provide companies with a small start-up security at the bottom, while they are working to ensure good regularity for their owners when choosing their mode of transport. The Minister of Transport continues to boast that he will over-comply with the national transport plan. On the coast, many will be delighted only to meet the current national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1773	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1780	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its very good and constructive cooperation in finding agreed solutions. That thank you goes to all the lots represented in the Committee. It is nice to be able to present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on this matter. The E18 is the main road link between the East and the South. E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, which is the current treatment route, has a poor standard and many off-roads, which reduce road safety on the route. The development shall be carried out under the auspices of New Weger AS and is the first extension project to be realised by the new road company. In line with local policy decisions, the project has been extended to the Stølen-Harebakken sub-section of the municipality of Arendal. In addition, the project is covered by traffic regulation measures at today’s E18. The line is prioritised in NTP 2014-2023, with a length that was planned to be 21 kilometres, but which as a result of the extension Stolen – Harebakken has increased to 23 kilometres. Provision is made for the opening of sections in the course of the construction project, but the whole route is to be opened up to traffic in 2019 – an opening time which represents an acceleration in relation to the financing plan set up in the NTP. An overall committee has noted that a calculation rate of 5,5 pst has been applied in the proposal. The majority of the Committee, the parties Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, emphasise that a lower calculation technical interest rate than the basis for the proposition should be applied, but that must nevertheless be sufficient and robust in view of fluctuations in market interest rates and traffic base. The Committee refers to answers to questions addressed to the Ministry of Transport by letter dated 21 April 2016, with reference to the estimates made by Nye Weier AS of the effect of the level of interest on the time of amortisation. At a level of interest of 2 and 3 pst respectively. the interest cost will be EUR 323,5 million and EUR 540 million respectively. By 2 pst. As a result, the amortisation period could be reduced by three years and by 3 pst. by two years, subject to the same rate. Another of the Committee's majority, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refers to the budgetary position, Innst. 2 S for 2015-2016, Decision 71, where the Stortinget asks the Government to assess alternative devices in order to achieve lower financing and collection costs in line with the intention of the toll reform. The minority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Centre, point out that an interest-rate compensation scheme would act bureaucratically and instead suggests, as an alternative, that the State grant a higher State share. An overall committee asks the government, in cooperation with New Veier AS and in line with the Innst. 2 S for 2015-2016, consider whether a lower interest rate can be taken into account provided that agreement is reached with local authorities on how to optimise the availability of additional funds as a result of lower interest rates. The Committee refers to the Council of State's replies to the Committee's questions relating to the Harebakken-Stoa section, which states that the regulatory plan for this section must be approved and the necessary due diligence implemented before any price estimate can be provided for this project. The Committee is aware that it is a local political desire to realise the development of this route as soon as possible. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party point out that lower costs must be borne by the drivers through lower bombing rates, shorter collection periods or by using the Harebakken-Stoa route. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party refer to the wish of the East-Agder County to set aside up up to 200 million. kr from tolling funds to ensure further planning of adjacent sections and, furthermore, that a lower calculation technical interest rate may allow for either lower fares, shorter amortisation times or be used for the extension of the project, including planning funds. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Left, points to the need for the further development of E18 in the State to strengthen the South as a region of residence and work and that the development of Harebakken-Stoa will be a natural extension of the project. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1810	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done in the Committee on this matter. The E18 is the main road link through East Agder and between the East and South countries, and there are probably some people in East Agder who are now following closely the negotiations in the Stortinget. Too many people, it's a big day. And I'll say, "Congratulations!" The Storting will today give green light to build a new E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal in East Agder, which many have waited a long time for. Unnecessary long, maybe a lot of people will also think. Today's road between Tvedestrand and Arendal is of very different standard with partial edge construction, many crossings and about 100 departures. There is high traffic, which, together with the poor standard, leads to many serious accidents and reduces the number of arrivals. Traffic also poses environmental disadvantages for the periphery. The construction of the route is part of Meld. St. 26 for 2012–2013, National Transport Plan 2014–2023 but then with the construction of quadruple road on the 21 km distance between Tvedestrand and Stolen in Arendal. I am very pleased that local policy wishes have been followed gradually and found room to extend the route by 2 km, to include a total of 23 km of new road from Tvedestrand to Harebakken. The route is partly toll-financed, and it is a fact that the route has been delayed according to the promises of the Right and Advance Party before the 2013 Grand Prix elections. For it is clearly just as difficult to comply with the toll reduction and faster completion commitments as it is to say: interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. The government’s promises of interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans on the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand route led to a direct delay in the project because new local policy treatments had to be made when the government’s performance scheme proved not to have much performance yet and was negotiated in Stortinget. This led to an increase in the use of time and financial resources – consequences of the Government Party The Progress Party has not always been an equal champion. I conclude that there is clearly a difference between the Progress Party in the opposition and the Progress Party in the position – which I also believe and hope is 16.3 pst. by the voters, and the other voters, too, are well aware. Of course, the working party believes that it makes sense to look at the calculation technical interest rate on toll loans, both on this project and on other projects. It opens up at lower rates, shorter downtime, or an extension of the project, which will provide more money. A unanimous increase is going to give that signal today to the Minister of Transport and the Government. The Workers' Party will then point to the decision of the district council in East-Agder on 9 February 2016, where the county council points to a wish that it be set aside up to 200 million. toll money to ensure further planning of adjacent sections. We know that on the major stretch between the East and South, E18, there will still be a need to do more. It's one of the country's most important transport corridors. This probably won't be the last time we have issues about E18 for treatment in Stortinget, fortunately, you might say. But today it is about Tvedestrand, Arendal and Aust-Agder, and the message from Stortinget today is: Start – build a new road! So the working party supports the setting in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1833	It is a pleasure to be able to deal with the toll proposal for the first project to be carried out under the auspices of Nye Weier AS. We have great expectations for the rapid and effective implementation of the Arendal–Tvedestrand route, and that we can lay a good foundation through the treatment of this proposition. I'm not going to go into detail on the content, it's well described in the toll proposition, but I'm still going to highlight some important elements. The E18 is the most important transport year between the south and the east. I think we can all agree that it is time that we now have a more coherent and comprehensive development of E18, and that a good basis for this is laid by the fact that New Veier AS has been given responsibility and has been given a predictable funding. The European road network in Norway has several functions. It must deal with transport over greater distances and serve the business needs of efficient transport of goods. At the same time, an efficient road network will also help to reduce distances and build stronger housing and labour market regions. The Arendal-Tvedestrand line is an example of such an extension. The journey time on this route is reduced by 8 minutes and 100 departures on the old E18 are replaced by 3 departures on the new road. It will help to strengthen the everyday region, improve accessibility and improve road safety on an accident-free route. The project has been extended with the Stølen-Harebakken section of the municipality of Arendal. This part of the project was not part of the national transport plan. This is in line with local policy wishes and is in line with our political objectives of building longer distances. The Arendal–Tvedestrand route was prioritised in the last part of this four-year period in the national transport plan. Now the project will start in 2016 in addition to expanding the project. This means that through these decisions and the establishment of New Roads AS, we get a faster start and implementation of the route. It is the first to be launched under the auspices of New Roads AS, not least because the project has positive societal benefits and will make a valuable contribution to the development of the whole region. It is also worth noting that there are two new propositions for treatment in Stortinget, where New Weier AS has the development responsibility. I'm assuming that both of these are adopted in Stortinget, and then it's 81,5 km with a quadruple highway at a total value of 18.6 billion. kr to be built out of the new company. I expect the Workers' Party, which was opposed to the establishment of the Nye Veier AS and still is, to note this progress and the pace shift in the development of the motorway in Norway. In the 2016 government budget, the government proposed an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans, both in order to stimulate the pooling of toll companies and to reduce interest rate risk, thus laying the basis for lower toll rates or faster downtime. This proposal did not receive a majority in the Storting and therefore the toll proposition has to be assessed on the basis of a normal interest rate risk. However, there may be grounds for using a lower interest rate for setting the toll rates. It is quite normal for the Ministry to be authorised to agree on the financing arrangements, as in this case as well. This means that adjustments can be made within the framework of the proposal and the decision in the Storting. If a lower interest rate is achieved in the market, it is fully possible to use this space to adjust the financing arrangements, e.g.: by reducing toll rates in cooperation with regional authorities and in this case New Weier AS. In addition, through this decision, we are now opening up a possible space for action to extend the project, so that the Harebakken-Stoa route can also be part of the project. I record that there is a strong local desire for it, and it would be very positive if it could be done. Further assessments of the financing arrangement and expected interest rate developments will determine whether there is a basis for including this route. It is extra nice to be allowed to participate in the adoption of the first project to be carried out by Nye Weier AS. There is an important project for the development of the housing and labour market region in the axis between Arendal and Tvedestrand and the rest of the area. This means faster delivery of goods to business and not least a safer road for all those travelling on this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1859	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the examination of the proposal and thanking you for constructive discussions on this matter. The Arendal–Tvedestrand line on E18 through East Agder is an important trajectory that will mean that we are now even closer to a complete four-field E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. The stretch is very vulnerable to accidents, and that the development can now be started is very enjoyable with regard to the safety of road users. The Arendal-Tvedestrand line is allocated to the newly created road company Nye Veier AS, as one of five in their portfolio. I would like to take this opportunity to express my enthusiasm that we have finally got this company in place, and that we now have more people to go closer to how we build infrastructure in Norway. The mandate of new roads is to challenge us on how we have done so far, and to find solutions that will enable us to build infrastructure faster, more reasonable and more efficiently for the future. We in the Progress Party are pleased to follow this. That being said, it is natural for me to comment on the toll proposition further. Let me first make it clear that road development financed by tolls is not the policy of the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes this is an expensive way of building infrastructure. Rather, we support an approach where investing more of your own money in your own country must be profitable. That being said, we are loyal to the majority of the Storting that supports this way of financing the way. It is tempting to follow recent debates when we see that even SV has become the party for a strong reduction in bombing tariffs and recovery time. It is with great enthusiasm that I record that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are calling for measures that will enable the bomb tariffs to be reduced. Let me remind Stortinget that at the government's budget proposal for 2016, Stortinget was presented for the government's proposal with the toll reform. This was proposed as an interest-rate compensation scheme; the State would have to bear a greater share of the interest cost of the loans, so that the tariffs for the drivers could be reduced. This was voted by the majority in the Grand Duchy. In examining this toll proposal, the Committee now has a majority in favour of contributing to a reduction in the tariffs for loans. An overall committee now supports the proposal for a Decision, III, which asks the government, in cooperation with Nye Veier AS, to try to reduce the calculation technical interest rate for the toll loan. This is simply a day of joy, and we in the Progress Party are looking forward to new tones in the debate on tolls from the other majority in the Stortinget. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that we have a powerful government that, since the government change, has increased the budgets for trade by over 20 billion. kr. It has a meaning who controls, and what priorities are being made. The range we can now ensure is set in motion has a huge impact on the region, on business and, above all, on the environment. Less queue, cork and chaos are positive for everyone, and it's even less now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1882	I am very pleased with the decision that Stortinget is now making to repair a very important road map in South Africa. E18 past Arendal and Tvedestrand have been an infamous road map for many of us who have run it often. Not at least some of those who run it daily have done it with their heart a little bit in their throat. There has been a lot of swings, a lot of off-road and on-road that have been unwieldy, a lot of driving and, unfortunately, a lot of accidents. Now we're going to have to do something about it. This has been long, correct. I've been foaming through some old news clips, where one sees different politicians from the region who promised that if they were elected, the road would come into place in 2009, in 2012, in 2014 – yes, many times, but without the government they became part of, made decisions. There have been many desires, but no decisions. Here we go. New roads make sure that not only is the route Arendal–Tvedestrand built, but one goes on a part, so that we get a complete stretch and not just a stretch that ends in a roundabout, and then the old, bad road again. Now we get what the local population wants, which means that the region of residence and work is even closer together, but also makes it safer, reduces travel time and a little more relaxing when you first travel that distance. It's a little funny -- we'll call it that -- to think that just a little while ago, the Center Party said that New Veger would put Norwegian road construction ten years back in time. It's not much of a memory now. The Labour Party, on the other hand, warned that there would be a road-bonanza with the policy of government and majority with the establishment of New Roads. And roadbonanza, I think we can agree that it's a sign that it's going to be, and I live with that. Because this isn't the only stretch on the E18 that we're discussing. We've already accelerated the completion of the stretch between Sandefjord and Tønsberg. One proposes to complete the lines at Larvik earlier than planned, and the Stortinget now has to process the distance around Porsgrund and Bamble. And so we're making decisions today about Arendal-Tvedestrand. So here it happens very much. It is also a little strange when the working party tries to make sure that there are delays. One of the first things we did after the government change, with the Left and Christian People's Party as well-cooperating partners, was to increase the appropriations for this road section in order to accelerate planning. That's why we can make the decision already now and on a longer distance than what was originally planned. So it's a little strange time and again having a debate about transport policy where the opposition gives the impression that we're pursuing a completely different policy than what is actually adopted. It's perfectly normal for a person to disagree about the priorities, but that a person denies the facts is a little special. Then there will be toll financing on this road section. The government has, as a policy, that we prefer to reduce toll rates, and we've done it on a lot of distances. The government also proposed a toll reform in which we would grant more state resources to reduce the risk of projects, thereby reducing the cost of bombing. It would provide a further reduction in fares along this path. We've seen examples of what it can mean by E18 through Westfold. Where local politicians adopted tolls up to NOK 116 for the whole route, the bomb charges are now down to NOK 50, because government policy is decisive. We could already see clearer examples of that in this proposition. When we haven't put it in, it's simply because the proposal didn't get a majority in the Storting last summer. So we haven't been able to change the computational interest rate as we would like. But we're still working on the matter. I believe that we have already been authorised to reduce the tariffs as we have the necessary decisions in Stortinget. Within this path is open, I believe we will have done that with good margin. And then I'm very happy with the signals that the opposition is now giving, which, however, voted against reducing fares and wouldn't grant money, that anyway, they think it's great that we're adjusting the computational rate. So we know that we can do that from the government with full support in the Storting, at least from the parties that are in the hall now. I also think that is very good. So we've got it as at least I've gone to the election on: we get more way, and we get lower tolls, and I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1908	Government Council Solvik-Olsen and Government Party The Progress Party has always been champions of faster road construction – they should. Now the minister himself has made sure that the project has actually been delayed, even though I hear that the Council of State is trying to explain it. But that was a simple reason. He kept both the voters and not least the local politicians to fool with a scheme that never went off. I would like to ask, how does this fact harmonize with the government's promise of faster completion of the E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1913	The system that the representative addresses, which was not one of them, the representative himself voted against. If the representative believes it was important to have good progress, the representative could have supported the government's proposal, which made sure that the signals the government gave to reduce the toll would have actually been implemented. But it is not a delay in this. As I said, at the turn of the government, we increased the allocations for the planning of Arendal-Tvedestrand. It's not planning for us to spend money on not doing anything, but it was actually to get more people to plan the way and get it done. It is now, ready to be built, and it has been extended. So it's a longer and larger project that's now being adopted than what was originally planned. When one starts that discussion, I am very tempted to think about the national motorway plan that the Workers' Party presented in 1963. Not much has been done. So if it's enough to talk about it when you put yourself in government, I'm more concerned that we actually get to make the decisions, and now the decisions are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1922	A letter sent in February from the Ministry of Transport, signed by Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen, shows that the State Road Administration has to invest in an additional cost of 90 million dollars in the 2016 budget. kr, due to the work of the Statens vägvesen in the New Veger project E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal. We're asking the state councils, $90 million. $90 million. kr less for other measures. What impact does this have on other projects in the Road Service portfolio?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1928	When today's majority took over power in 2013, the planning budget of the Railway Agency and Vegvesenet was about 850 million. kr. In 2016, the planning budget is nearly 3,000 billion. kr, i.e. three and a half more times. We've done that to plan things faster, get built things faster. When the Road Service has actually spent 90 million. kr more than they had planned, because they have got things in place faster. It doesn't harmonize with the previous question, which gave the impression that it was a delay, when someone with the number usage here confirms that it's an acceleration. So it's not like this money is badly used. This is money that's spent in a reasonable way. The discussion that has been has been whether it is Vegvesenet or New Roads that will take the bill. For taxpayers, it does not matter, for both are state corporations. We could well have said that New Roads would take the bill, but then they would have increased the appropriations for New Roads by 90 million. kr and cut the appropriations for Vegvesenet by 90 million. kr. So they'd come out just like that. The important thing for me is that you have got the plans in place, make some decisions, and then I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1940	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1945	I tried out the old road, as I often do, today morning between Arendal and Tvedestrand. I had a little visit coming in. It has to be said to be quite problematic — especially with regard to the number of departures, it does have Norway’s record as a European road. This is a great day for the people of East Agder and especially for the people of the area I come from, the Agder/Tvedestrand area. It's a big day that we're getting an improvement on the tribal road between the South and the East, but not least it's a big day for those who use the road every day. I think it is important to take this into account, that when building the kind of roads in the future, the local population should also be taken into account. Of course, it's a matter of withdrawing history back to the 1960s and 1970s when it comes to this path. I record that there is a little different understanding of history in the case of NTP and this way – when it came in, when it was taken out, what was granted by funds, etc. I'm not going to go into that discussion, but I'm going to thank everyone who's been engaged in this way. It has been reasonably cross-political locally and regionally. I think that's one of the reasons why we've managed to get it to the final decision today. There has been a great deal of agreement in South Africa that this road section should be given priority, and there has been active work with no government. One has had some different solutions, but this way came back a few years ago in the NTP under the red-green government, and it has been followed up. Today we are there, and we are very happy about that. It's very, very important. It is also important for road safety. This road has been very accident-affected, and it is important for the adventurism. There will then be some new challenges, because now there will be new bottlenecks. Then the bottleneck at the end of this road becomes extra visible. Therefore, I am pleased that Harebakken–Stoa has now been brought forward as a possible extension relatively quickly. So there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the entire chin. When I drove that trip into Oslo today, I paid 50 kroner to drive through large parts of Telemark and Vestfold. It's a distance of 4 to 5 miles. But on a distance equal to half, it's calculated the same toll tariff. Clearly, both the Labour Party and other parties will call out a warning and say that enough is enough. There is a risk of congestion of the old road network and one must take those considerations into account. I'm very glad that a total pile points to it and says that the fare that's at stake now, at almost 50 kroner for 2 miles, is too high, and that the original proposal for the county council in East Agder, which was in the cards, at maybe 30-35 kroner, is a more reasonable rate. Today is a big day. Congratulations to the people of East Agder!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1960	I was unable to humiliate myself after the previous speech. I think it's very good that Freddy de Ruiter chose to say that this is a happy day. It's great for all those who use E18, both for those who run this way every day, and for those who use it in between. There's no doubt about it. I'm very happy about that. But it's a little special when the representative de Ruiter is concerned about what has happened, and that this has taken time, etc., because it's just to go into a little Google search, you can see that in the NRK in 2007, the representative de Ruiter promised that he would fight more for the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand. But it took almost ten years before the road now finally began to be built, and that time neither was the small extra distance with. In fact, it was not in the national transport plan that the red-green ones presented. It shows that this government is setting a completely different pace, and you look at new opportunities and new ways of doing things with the new road company. I'm very happy to get there. I think you're going to see a completely different rate of expansion than what you've seen so far. So during eight years of red-green government, nothing happened to reform or look at other ways of doing things in the transport sector. That's what this government has done, and it's right here. I also think you're going to see that when you follow up on the large number now says, that you actually have to look at the level of interest rates, then probably the level of interest rates is going to be much lower. At least that's what the Progress Party is concerned about. We've been fighting for that for eight years under the red-green. Then it was impossible to lower the interest rate anything. But it's actually lowered after it became a new government, which looks at things in a different way. So with the Progress Party and the Right in Government and the two cooperation parties, it is now seen that there are proposals for implementing the project, and then it is a joyous day because road safety, accessibility and the environment are a great project. There are several which lie in the cold and are to be treated in this room. So it shows that you really are betting on transportation. I'm glad. And then there's a cut in the joy of funding with tolls, but a former colleague of mine has been up and well explained what the Progress Party thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1979	I really just want to give a little thought to the treatment that we have now. It may seem that the proposal promoted by most parties, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, in the context of the State budget when it comes to interest compensation, has actually begun to become a little mature. We're about to do a reverse operation here, which means that we can actually cross-politically agree that the bomb tariffs are going down. It's a happy day, I'd say. With regard to the one proposal that is about the fact that, in each case, the Council of State will now be able to consider adjusting the calculation technical rate, it is really opening doors, because it is in the decisions that we have taken in the past. That mandate already has the Council of State – that he can calculate it. What has been the big -- what to say -- the conflict, I think, especially the Workers' Party, has been that one has not wanted to use state funds in terms of the interest-rate compensation scheme. But that would have reduced the risk to the users, i.e. the drivers. And now when you put the interest rate down, it might mean that you can't see past what we call the interest compensation scheme. I'm typing we can come up with a new name, so this is going very well. It also has something to do with the risk to whom the cost is going to roll over. As the interest rate market looks now, I think we're going to get a low interest rate, we're going to get a low and low toll cost, and all in all, I think we cross-politically agree that that's the right thing to do. So we'll probably get a spin operation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e1992	It is quite incredible what to hear from this pulpit. It's okay to get engaged, but I think maybe you should have Googled a little bit shorter back in time before you started criticizing the red-green ones. Then you could have Googled to the last big shot and seen what you said yourself, before going out high and dark in terms of both this distance and tolls. There is no doubt that even if you try as hard as you can, it is not useful to stand on this platform and submit a project after project with sky-high tolls and say that you mean anything else. The party of progress is not getting away from it. They have not been able to deliver in relation to tolls. In terms of interest-rate compensation, if you get a sense that we're suddenly in favour of it, yeah, then I think you've read some posts in a completely different way. We want to spend the money on the way. I know it myself, I myself have been sitting as rapporteur in the municipality and going to build the road. Then it is not primarily to have the most toll possible. No, it's to build a road for them, and not send them as interest compensation to banks or to others. But we want us to build the cheapest way possible. And we're not going to have more interest on the projects than it should be. And then when interest is released, we want a clear principle that you can make the choice: either more way, which it may be more of, shorter collection time, as it has been until today – it's nothing new that it's been faster to pay project – or lower rates. And it's the Progress Party that didn't want to spend the money on more roads, but they're also forced to kneel on the other parties, and I'm very happy about that. Because it may make sense for some projects, such as this, to expand the project or include a project that did not come along. That makes sense, and that's right. You have to consider what to do on a case-by-case basis. There is no doubt that the project we are dealing with today could have been done at least as quickly if we had not had New Roads. Some people are glorifying the new company, that's what's the solution. On the contrary, it increases red tape, there is duplication of expenditure. There is no reason why this project could not be organised in another way. Trying to draw a different story can be done, but the truth is usually not exactly the way someone wants to tell it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2001	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2015	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is understood to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2022	President, it's a pleasure to see you in this chair. Norway's target is to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 in cooperation with the EU. It's a demanding, but necessary ambition. The difficult part of a green shift is to ensure that the low-carbon society does not end well, but the start of something better – new jobs, fresher air, a richer life, a better, simpler and more efficient everyday life where we continue to create the values that are needed to finance the welfare society that we all appreciate. Climate policy must also be seen in a different perspective. We are becoming more and more people who need to share more and more scarce resources. In 1950 we were two and a half billion people on earth. In 2050 we will approach ten billion. And while almost a quarter of the world's population in 1950 was European, we're now just seven psts. It tells us that climate and environmental challenges are neither a Norway Championship nor a European Championship. It's a global effort that everyone has to contribute. With Norwegian technology, capital and competence, we can contribute to a development in which economic growth and high standard of living can be reconciled with low emissions and a resource use of the earth. Norway’s contribution must be to implement measures at home that also affect the world out there. We've already shown that we can. Since 1990, emissions from Norwegian industry have almost halved, while production has almost doubled. Technological progress and our clean, renewable energy have made it possible in Norway to produce eight with the same emissions that China has in the production of one shower box. However, the sector in which Norwegian short-term emission reductions are most important for global emissions accounts is transport. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee has a vision of zero emissions from the transport sector. The speed with which we are able to achieve zero emissions will largely depend on technological developments in renewable fuels, engine technologies, material technologies and intelligent transport systems. At the same time, we need to provide policy framework conditions that both contribute to the development of technology and to its rapid implementation. Our ambition must also be that the green shift creates new, exciting jobs, technology environments and community values. Fortunately, there is broad agreement on the level of ambition, and there is broad agreement on many important measures that will help the transport sector to take the necessary emission reductions by 2030. In recent years, the green shift in the transport sector has slowed down. In the case of environmentally friendly fuels, the biodiesel tax has been removed and biogas has become competitive, which has led to soil penetration for what will become Europe’s largest biogas plant in Forests. The placing on the market of biofuels has increased and will continue to increase in the future. From 2018, the placing on the market obligation will also cover air transport. In sum, this contributes to the return of industrial actors to exciting projects in the production of biofuels based on Norwegian raw material. The benefits for electric cars have been extended and the car charge has changed so that CO2 and NOx weigh more heavily in the charging system than before. At the same time, Enova rolls out high-speed chargers along all its transport corridors and substantial subsidies are granted to shore-side power plants at Norwegian ports. Enova launched a total of seven different green transport support programmes in 2015, and as of May 2016 these have distributed more money than Transnova did throughout its lifetime. Enova and Innovation Norway have been providing significant funds in recent years and are therefore strongly equipped to contribute to a green shift in the transport sector. In green shipping we see a raging development with many exciting projects within biofuels, hybrid power lines and battery electric vessels. Within heavy transport, Enova and major actors such as Posten, Bring, ASKO and Router go forward with exciting projects within, among others. hydrogen and other environmentally friendly alternatives. Hydrogen can also be an exciting and reasonable alternative to traditional electrification of the routes currently using diesel locomotives. The public sector has significant market power, and through more than 400 billion. kr in annual, public procurement and public procurement requirements, new green solutions may be developed and put into service. This is a tool that we are already using, but which can be further developed in the service of the environment in the years to come. Railway investment, public transport in major cities, increased use of bicycles and environmentally friendly urban and urban development are also key elements in sustainable development and in reducing emissions, while these are very good examples of measures that also make everyday life easier and better for people. Finally, let me thank the proposers for playing an important debate on the transport system of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2051	Norway shall realise the low-emission society by 2050. The objective is almost zero emissions from the transport sector in the long term, as the rapporteur said. In the draft transport plan for 2018-2029, transport modes have an ambition to reduce emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. A number of representative proposals from different parties have been promoted to address measures to reduce climate change emissions in Norway. This is a consequence of the fact that we have a government that does not seem to have ambitions to develop new policies and measures until after an agreement with the EU is in place. The working party considers it urgent to take new action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore striking that the Storting itself must take the initiative in all these proposals because of the lack of initiatives by today's government. It must not and should not be such that everything has to be put on hold, either for a new NTP, or with other attempts to explain. The representative proposal from the SV representatives is commendable, and I find it strange that no more parties have addressed parts of the proposals. When the Workers' Party does not choose to go into more of the 49 proposals than we do, it's because some of them are natural to come back to the NTP, and some of them are also natural to look at the budget. The Labour Party also refers to its proposal, which is now under consideration in the Energy and Environment Committee. Several of the proposals will be dealt with and discussed there, or in the Energy Communication. But the Workers' Party has chosen to promote seven concrete proposals in this case, and the Centre Party has gone into six of them. We had probably expected those who wanted to be environmental parties and say it out loud, but who have not been on the proposals, to have gone into them. Then I think especially of the Left and Christian People's Party. I thought I would briefly go into the seven proposals of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 is a proposal we believe that everyone – according to what you say you are – should be able to support. Proposal No. 2 is the same thing. It is asking for targets along the way and not just looking towards 2030, but having en route targets in 2020 and 2025. Proposal No. 3 goes on an obligatory escalating plan for grants to municipalities and county councils to build bicycle paths, in order to increase the bicycle share. It's not just the big cities that need bike routes. It's needed all over the country. Proposal No. 4 should be something exciting that everyone could be on, and it's testing hydrogen as an alternative to electricity on some of the diesel-powered train sections. Proposal No. 5 is a matter for which the Stortinget has previously agreed, so it is actually an announcement of a matter that should be currant to go into. Proposal No. 6 is a signal you should get in place as early as possible, and it goes on when we are about to launch the next offer on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route. We believe it is quite natural that all vessels are required to be prepared for shore-side electricity. Proposal No. 7 requires the State to commit by up to 70 pst. the investment costs of large collective investment in large cities. Here, as we know, the government has gone up to 50 pst. But as we know, this is a huge uplift for many, and I think it's important that the state goes in heavier to succeed in a faster expansion. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2068	The representative Kjell-Idar Juvik then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2071	In the Christian People's Party we have reasonably good memory. We remember very well the time when SV was in government, and there is no doubt, seen with the eyes of the Christian People's Party, that we get more back on the environment and climate with today's government than when SV was in government, and then SV was in charge of the Ministry of Environment. I am pleased with the offensive policy of today's government under pressure from the Left and Christian People's Party. Now we have a different attitude, a different will, to results also in terms of the environment, transport and climate. But in the Christian People's Party, of course, we take all suggestions seriously. This also applies, of course, to the proposals from SV. But there is no doubt that today's government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is engaged in good and important environmental measures in the field of transport. I am pleased because we have lost many valuable years under the red-green regime. Greenhouse gas emissions are increasing in Norway. New figures that became known just a week ago show that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway rose by 1.5pst. in 2015. The preliminary emissions figures from the Statistical Central Agency show that greenhouse gas emissions amounted to a total of 53,9 million tonnes in 2015, an increase of nearly 0,8 million tonnes from the previous year. The main reason for this increase is the increased use of natural gas offshore. The emissions from oil and gas extraction rose by 2.3 pst. and emissions have also increased in road traffic. Transport accounts for a significant proportion of emissions in Norway and the transport sector must take its part in the responsibility. It's about climate globally, but it's also about local air pollution. We have to provide cleaner air where people live and stay. We have to be able to breathe safely in our cities without going crazy. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left are adopting and implementing new measures. More goods are to be moved from road to sea, road transport is electrified, charging stations are to be built at high speed, electric car policy is working, and charges are to be shifted in a greener direction. Yes, with regard to charging infrastructure for electric cars, we now have a commitment to expand charging stations in all transport corridors on the national road network, so that by 1 November 2017 one can run electrically on all national roads in Norway. This is a completely different give than what we've seen before, and the Christian People's Party was not close to getting to anything like that in collaboration with an SV in government. The allocation of routes and bicycles has increased sharply through several budgetary conciliations between the cooperation parties, and the reward system for routes and bicycles has provided 85 million. new government crowns in 2015 and 162.5 million. kr in 2016. SV and the red-greens were never willing to consider anything like that. They voted in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party time and time again, including: our cycling bet and reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. Before the change of government, the metropolitan areas had to take the big bill for large collective efforts, while the cooperation parties have now committed themselves to contributing 50 pst to the state through the urban environment agreements. investment aid for large collective investment in the four major urban areas. When SV ran, the city track in Bergen did not even get more than 15 pst. support from the Red-Green Government. It's new times. In addition to this, we have received a much more offensive investment on the railways than under the red-green government. But the challenges are still great. We have a long-term and important job ahead of us. Emissions are going down, and we're going to rig a modern transport system that's both more environmentally friendly and at the same time gives people a better and simpler transport business. And we're going to continue to rotate the charging system in a greener direction. I see all the suggestions from SV here and now. We have carefully considered all the proposals, and there is little doubt that the proposals are primarily related to the budget and the priorities in particular. National transport plan. Nothing is better than whether there can be a large majority for offensive environmental and climate action in NTP, and we look forward to that plan being addressed in the spring of 2017. For it is there, and in the future state budgets, that the proposals for S.V. need to be assessed in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2092	It was nice to see the new president in action. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation both in the Chamber today and in the written part of the matter. It was very good. I'm a technology optimist. I think we'll get far if we focus on technology, and the committee was lucky enough to be in South Korea and Japan and have a look at the technology developments that are happening there. That was very interesting. We got tested hydrogen as a source of fuel – very interesting. A lot is happening here in a lot of areas, but it requires willingness to bet, it requires willingness to put it into practice, and it also requires that we use it, and that the state is involved in financing a lot of things. In fact, there may be new industries of some, e.g. that which goes on biofuels. It's exciting, but we have to want to. As has previously been said, a number of representative proposals have been made in the 2015–2016 session dealing with measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. That, I think, is a consequence of the fact that the Storting is impatient, and you think it's too little from the government. Impatience is good – it is necessary to bring forward new solutions. It is an affordable initiative from SV we have to deal with today, but we from the Central Party think that many of the proposals need to be addressed in the context of the national transport plan and the assessments that we are going to make there, and some we need to look at the tax system in each year's budget. But, as I said, a pressure from the Stortinget is necessary, and it is important that we take the debates that lie here. We from the Central Party support the proposals promoted by the Labour Party. I see today that it is promoted loose proposals from SV. Let's look at them. I do not think we can support everyone, but there are enough things that can be supported. I registered that the representative Hans Fredrik Grövan spoke about the urban environmental agreements as something that this government has invented. It is probably right to say that it was in the national transport plan, and thus was adopted earlier than that. The matter is as good, but it's perhaps easy to say that it's something that the Storting has been very unanimous about. It is also nice of course to listen to the self-criticism of the Christian People's Party. This is very good, but when you are so unilaterally focused on what you think you have done, you also take on a great responsibility for the state budget for 2017 and for the national transport plan. That's the responsibility I expect you to take. The centre party will at least take on the responsibility that we should push forward good solutions in cooperation with other parties, and we believe that the discussions around both the state budget and the national transport plan will be good in this way. It's important that we think about the climate challenges we're all affected by wherever we live. It's no longer that air quality is just a problem in Oslo, it's actually a problem in many cities around. There are problems with the climate challenges. Given that it rages – you get challenges with the slippage of masses both on roads and in ports. There are major challenges in several sectors. It is important that we think through it, and that we can try to help get new solutions to ensure that we have less climate challenges in the future. Then we have to act, and we have to act now, and we have to be willing to take action from the state to get it done. The Labour Party has promoted the proposals that the Central Party also supports, so I expect them to be duly noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2111	The transport sector is known to account for about one third of national emissions. It is therefore essential that national strategies and plans are put in place to ensure that climate change emissions from the transport sector are reduced. It was therefore very bad news that we recently received that in 2015 we were going in the wrong direction, and that greenhouse gas emissions increased by 1.5 pst. The left has been clear that next year’s government budget must therefore be the climate budget of the time to reverse this trend. There can no longer be any doubt about where to go. Following a historical climate summit in Paris, the answer is zero – zero greenhouse gas emissions. If we're going to be able to reach the 2 degree point and reach the 1.5 degree point, we can't go on like before. I think all sectors of society now realize that. I share the impatience of the representatives behind the proposal, but it should also be so that what the Stortinget adopts is well thought out. I therefore believe it may be a little unwise to adopt all these 49 proposals, as they are today. The urban environment agreements are mentioned, and I understand the zeal of all parties after taking credit for it. It's good, it's an agreement that several parties end up about, but if I'm not completely wrong, I think it was Left's Torild Skogsholm who introduced this when she was Minister of Transport, but I may have a bad memory of this. The left refers to the agreed objective of taking passenger transport growth in urban areas with public transport, cycling and walking, which currently applies to the nine urban areas concerned with urban environmental agreements. On the left, reference is made to the basic document for the new national transport plan for 2018-2029, where the trades unions, the railway works, the coastal works and the state road network and the Avinor recommend that the zero growth target ‘extended to cover all urban regions where the environment and capacity challenges make it appropriate to manage passenger transport by public transport, walking and cycling. The zero growth target should be applied as a minimum in all cities where urban packages are concerned.’;» The left refers to the basic document for the new national transport plan, drawn up by the trade unions, which proposes to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 50 pst. by 2030 and that transport shall be free of emissions by 2050. The left supports the objectives of becoming completely emission-free and asks the government to base them on the development of the national transport plan. The left refers to the fact that there can be no vote on proposals twice in one and the same roll-out session. For this reason, the Left points to a number of proposals in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which concern the same subject as this proposal for a representative, inter alia. in the Energy Communication. The left will therefore refer to these issues, where we are promoting a number of proposals for reducing climate emissions from the transport sector. Finally, let me be quite clear: the next national transport plan must be a plan that helps to reduce climate change emissions. Large projects such as intercity therefore need to be given a very high priority and implemented. How we can move people in an environmentally friendly and efficient way must be absolutely central to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2135	Only the results count, and if Norway is to make its fair share of the efforts to stop the dangerous climate change and follow up the Paris Agreement, only zero emissions count. Unfortunately, we have a government that is completely free of national ambitions for emissions. They know the recipe, they've asked for the recipe on how to achieve the targets that the Storting has decided to reduce emissions to 47 million. tonnes by 2020, but they have refused to deliver anything. There is no single government proposal that has a significant reduction in emissions. And now I recently read in the Financial Newspaper that the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, would not provide figures for what was net emission reductions as a result of this government’s emission policy and climate policy – and that is all that says. This is a government that has not come with any invitation to wide-ranging climate settlements. I hear that the Christian People's Party says that the previous government was so bad and little inclusive, but the previous government promoted in two rounds invitations to large, wide climate settlements, which led to emission reductions. If you follow the analysis of the Central Statistical Agency, they clearly say that from 2007/2008, when we had the first climate agreement, we had a decline in climate emissions until 2013/2014. And in the last year, 2015, the Central Statistical Office says that the trend is reversed. I notice that both the Left and the Christian People's Party say there has been a change of pace in climate policy. Well, that rate shift leads to increased emissions after eight years with a continuous decrease from 2007 onwards. I am surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support the proposal to set a target, i.e. to set a concrete target – this was an invitation to a broad settlement since the government does not promote that kind of invitation – for what national transport plan will cut greenhouse gas emissions in the period up to 2030. We get a national transport plan that will apply until 2029. The factions themselves say that they are able to cut 50 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector by 2030. Therefore, SV promoted such a proposal, and it was a direct follow-up to the proposal as a majority of the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party and the Left, that last year, the national transport plan had to have a measure of climate change. If you don't, the Storting must be blind and try to figure out what the sum of all the grips taken in the national transport plan means to manage to cut greenhouse gas emissions. I must admit that I have confidence in the rapporteur. He initially wanted this matter to the Transport Committee. The transport committee got it, but I only realized that it was to bury all the proposals instead of taking care of them and follow up on those that were agreed upon. I have no confidence that a government that has managed to deliver the increase in greenhouse gas emissions to this day will be able to deliver reductions in greenhouse gas emissions through a national transport plan. Their own trade unions say that the climate agreement's 2020 target is 47 million. tonnes of emissions, as the Storting has decided, will not be reached even by 2030, as the forecasts are now. There are forecasts that the Council of State from the Right, Vidar Helgesen, says he has not intended to be moved. On the contrary, he says as the last time we got an increase in emissions: this was expected. A government made up of people who say they expect emissions growth at a time when we need to cut is the wrong people for the job. I need a government that says we're going to have a decline in greenhouse gas emissions instead of increasing them, which is happening now, who knows the recipe for how they're going to get it when they're introduced, and who's actually following it. We have a drop in the proportion of newly sold electric cars, without it obviously worrying the government at all. In other words, they have a charging policy that does not help to ensure zero emissions are in place. We have a government that is big in words, but little in action when it comes to delivering results. Our children are going to measure whether we did our best to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The government that is now sitting increases them instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2152	In the field of transport policy, there are many objectives to be met. But the main purpose of transportation is to get around – get to and from work, work, to and from school, cultural activities, outdoors and the like. That's why an important part of the job we have to do is to improve mobility, both for our everyday travellers and for business. In addition, we have to make sure that it gets safer. It shall be safe to travel on Norwegian roads, rail, sea and air. We have to bring down the number of accidents, and, not least, we have to bring down the number of fatalities and injuries. Then we have to make sure that traffic is cleaner. We need to reduce noise, local emissions and global emissions. Then it's important that we have solutions that work. We don't solve the climate challenges by filling our cities with diesel cars, which somebody's done before us. The direction of action shows that we are going in the right direction. Emissions have increased appropriately as a result of oil activities in particular. I want to make a little visit to it, because I'm recording that someone from the opposition is making it essentially that the numbers from the last year went in the wrong direction. Then I remember that when the climate report was presented under the previous government, it outlined a decrease in the emissions from the oil business. But when the oil report was submitted approx. at the same time, it outlined an increase in emissions. We see that the oil report was one of the realities, and so we see increased emissions now. It does not help that one has a climate rhetoric when the measures are promoted, not accompanied by the swings. So it's the oil sector's emissions that are now causing the accounts to go in a substantially wrong direction. Not this government and a majority of today – what I think the representatives of Gruvan and Raja have so well shown – have intended neither to allow old sins nor today's evolution to rule. We're putting in a lot of measures that will reduce emissions in the long term. It's important. In the national transport plan, there will be a climate strategy – for the first time. So it's not like the government doesn't care. The climate strategy comes – for the first time. The government is conducting several conversion conferences, which are just about green technology, green economy. It's also a sign that we involve both business and other countries in an idea of what you can do, and how to do it. It's just not right when you say you don't care. Then there are also a lot of measures that have been implemented and that will deliver results as volumes become large. In the vehicle sector, we have extended the electric car benefits. We've reinforced the benefits for hybrid cars, and it's free to drive hydrogen cars. We see that the emissions from new cars are now at the lowest levels, lower than when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was in government. To give the impression that nothing is happening is simply not right. Within fuel, more money is now used than before to build charging stations. One has introduced tax advantages for biofuels, which was removed by the previous government. But it is important that these biofuels also have to be sustainable. In shipping – as we discussed earlier, but I repeat it – there are both environmental technology support schemes, aid schemes that were not in existence before, support schemes for shore-side electricity, which were not in existence before, and the construction of battery ferries. A battery ferry was built during the previous government, and there are several orders now. In addition, we need to get a better frequency on many of the same ferry connections. We make it possible for people to choose away the car by giving them a better alternative. No one can solve their problems if they get longer travel time. That is why it is important that we strengthen both public transport and rail. The appropriations for the railway have been increased by about 50 pst. after the government change. That's equal to 6 billion. kr per year. Now more than 100 trains are going from Oslo S – to mention one station – with a passenger growth far higher than the traffic growth on the road. Everything is in the way that we will now have an upturn in rail freight due to increased maintenance under today's majority. Even as late as today, I met a big company in the field of hydrogen technology on trains. The government is already doing this work, which some parties are proposing in the Stortinget. Collective action in cities has increased sharply. Oslo got a total of 180 million. kr in the reward scheme for public transport in 2012 and 2013. In 2014 and 2015 they received SEK 715 million. SEK and only in 2016 450 million. kr – i.e. five times the annual average under the red-green government. I record that someone wants 70 pst. support for collective action, while giving 10 pst. when they crashed. The list is long -- I'm happy to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2182	It's good that we have a government council that's looking forward to the continuation, and now we're going to see what it's going to be like. The basic material of the transport sector raises a number of challenges in transport policy. One of the most important is that the desired growth in the use of public transport in the long term would lead to major economic challenges for the counties and major cities. As the transport modes point to, the counties and major cities will have no backbone to bear neither the future increased operating costs nor the upcoming large investments. Therefore, the Government of Stoltenberg introduced in NTP 2014-2023 a system of urban environmental agreements and provided funds for the negotiations currently under way in the major cities by the Ministry of Transport. The Government has relied on a 50 pst investment cost principle for major investment projects in question. The Labour Party has assessed the implementation of several of these major investments, but with a larger contribution from the State. My question is: Will the Council of State forward to the next NTP consider whether it is unwise for the state to assume greater responsibilities in some cases than the government of its platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2193	As I mentioned in my post, today's government has far surpassed the plans of the previous government in its national transport plan, both on the railways and collectively. That's because we believe that one actually has to have a stronger bet than what was the most offensive SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party thought. I would also like to mention the point made by the representative Raja. It is fine that the previous government talked about urban environmental agreements and reward schemes, but it is actually former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm from the Left who should be credited most for this. I think it is very good that the Workers' Party now also says that the state should commit itself to investing more when building out local collective infrastructure in the largest cities. The mountains were given approx. 10 pst. support under the Red-Green Government. Today's government has said we commit ourselves to 50 pst. So that's five times that. I record that the Workers' Party, which would not figure this number in position, now in opposition will suddenly have 70 pst., but not necessarily more money for the scheme. However, it does not give any more money to each state.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2202	I record that you are satisfied with the 50 percent and at least you don't want to say that you want to go beyond that. Now it's like time goes on, and things change, even if someone tries to tell the story of how things were before. One example of that is the electric car. Obviously, when you have few electric cars, there is little need for charging stations. Fortunately, we have pursued a policy that has given more electric cars. It's not like it's just the new government that has built out charging stations. The construction of Transnova and the bet there, and what eventually became Enova, was the cross-political agreement. That is why we need to adapt our policies to the time we are in at all times. I understand that the Council of State will talk about the time before the red-green era, but you can't help but realize that it's the red-green ones that have lifted the urban environment agreements. But back to Enova and Transnova: does the Council feel sure that the tasks that Transnova had earlier are now well-managed by Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2209	Yes, I feel very sure that Enova manages the total responsibility they have. They've both got a much bigger framework than they've had before, and they've got more responsibility, so they can see things in a whole. There is no reason to believe that Enova is not doing that job. However, if the Labour Party is in doubt, they will have to discuss it. I would also like to remind you that I have not registered so far that there was a single urban environment agreement under the previous government. I think it is very good that we now have an agreement with Trondheim – red-green controlled – so the party color here means nothing. The important thing is that we work together to figure out how to develop collective solutions in cities, so that people get a better alternative. I think there is evidence of populism when the Workers' Party in its national transport plan refuses to say that the State should at all undertake to contribute. It was only then that the state can contribute, but not that the state should contribute. When today's government fivefolds the amount compared to what they used to do under red-green government, it's suddenly too small. I think it bears more witness to some populism from the representative Juvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2218	Now we're not going to have any Norway championship in populism here. I'm not quite sure how it would have turned out in the end. But I just want to mention that it's not a populist measure when a national meeting in a big party like the Workers' Party makes a decision, and that's what we're talking about here today. That's what we're promoting here again today, in terms of commitments, and in terms of 70 pst. I can understand that the Council of State seems to be making a lot of noise and is a hairy goal to achieve, and I'm recording that you're overjoyed to reach 50 pst. But it's not like it's populism when you've anchored it that way. My question remains – just to check whether the Council of State feels that he has answered clearly enough: Is it the case that the next NTP will also put itself on a maxline of 50 pst., or will you agree to consider a higher share in some major projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2225	I believe that everyone who is familiar with the national transport plan – and not least should be in a large responsible batch – knows that one does not go out and concludes at national transport level before it is presented to the Stortinget. But what I'm very pleased with is that today's majority in Stortinget ensures that the urban environment agreements provide five times more money in state support for collective infrastructure than the representative Juvik's party adopted when they themselves ruled. So we're going to grant 40 pst. more money for the reward schemes. This means that, for example: Oslo came out very well, because the needs are also greatest. So they get five times more money in 2016 than they got on average in 2012 and 2013. It's one thing to talk about what goals one adopts at its party meetings, and another thing one actually adopts and implements when one sits and governs the country. There's nothing to be ashamed of today's majority. This will also benefit the public travellers very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2232	These are the results that count, and the emissions from Norway are thus going up under Ketil Solvik-Olsen, also from the transport sector, as the Minister for Transport said. So it's the results, and not how many times you say technology and climate, that count. Then I think the Council of State has a unique and impressive ability to enjoy all the things he's been forced to do. He mentions in flig biofuels and zero-emission ferries as things he has almost driven through, despite the fact that he and the Progress Party have been forced by the majority to implement it. And the majority of the railway investments that have come to this great period have been forced through the Christian People's Party and the Left – kudos to them, zero praise to the Council of State. The key question is: is the Council of State going to present a climate strategy, or is he going to follow what the Stortinget has said in connection with NTP, namely to set a numerical target for greenhouse gas emission reductions in NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2241	I remind the representative Eidsvoll Holmås of what is actually on the government platform. For in the government platform, which the Stortinget has not adopted and in which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre did not have a finger in the game, it is said that this government will implement zero-emission or low-emission technologies in all areas of the transport sector as soon as the technology is available. That's what we're doing. The fact that the Storting and the opposition have subsequently adopted similar measures does not mean that we are thus forced in that direction, when we have already started marching in that direction. That in a way, we're kind of getting ahead of each other, we're going to get to take as a good thing. But I understand that it hurts a little bit for SV when they can't present themselves as the most offensive party in climate policy. I remind you that the Swedish Climate Communication outlined lower emissions in the oil sector. The oil message the red-green presented outlined increased emissions. We see that the results of the red-green policy were increased emissions from the oil sector. That's what's outlined by the latest emission figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2248	I notice that the Council of State again does what he often does when he's in debate, he jumps over the question and raids instead. What was my question was this: The majority of the population in the United Kingdom voted down the Right and the Progress Party's proposal to have climate strategies in the National Transport Plan. It happened last year. What we wanted instead was a numerical target, a climate target, for emission reductions in the national transport plan. Governments are still talking about climate strategies as if the Stortinget had not taken a decision. Well, that's the state council's style. But I want the Council of State to respond corroboratingly to: Is he going to comply with the Storting decision to base an emission reduction target in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2253	In the basic material from the transport modes, there is a target to cut emissions. So Ergo is part of the idea that we're going to get the emissions down. Of course, we are dealing with the decisions Stortinget has made, but that does not mean that we are dealing with all the thoughts SV has about how the goals are to be achieved. We have got lower average emissions from new cars now than it was when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was in government. Such things refuse to deal with when the representative discusses climate policy, but it is equally fully a fact. There are several charging stations, there are several land power plants, there is more of everything that is in a climate-friendly direction, compared to when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was in government. I think it's a little weird when you give the impression that it's actually almost less of everything that's good, instead of accepting and admitting that things have gone in the right direction, and that there's more of it. But we also have to live with old decisions such as this. emissions from the oil industry have increased in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2258	I do not expect the Council of State to be a think-tank reader for SV, I expect the Council of State to deal with the decision-making decisions that have been taken. So we are clearly saying that a climate target should be set for the national transport plan. The reason why it's important, and the reason why it would have been important to confirm this figure before the Council of State submits its National Transport Plan, is that there's a huge difference in whether you have ambitions to cut 2 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector or ambitions to cut 50 pst. by 2030. But leave it alone, I have a very concrete Oslo question. Governments ridicule the Workers' Party's proposal for 70 p.m. and manufactures it as if all measures are given 50 pst. in the major cities of major investment. Very well known is not the case for the Oslo tunnel signalling system, which will lead to 25 pst. increased capacity through the Oslo Tunnel, the centre tunnel of the T-Bahn, and in Appendix 7000 additional people. He'll guarantee 50 pst. There?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2266	I find that the questioner himself delivered NOK 0 to that type of plant, so when the government today has said that we should grant NOK 50. For new infrastructure projects, and that is what the urban environment agreement is all about, it is therefore more than the challenger. I am not mocking the discussion that we are going to contribute more with state resources to building collective infrastructure in the largest cities. I just pointed out that the one who delivered 10 pst. averaged to Bergen, now believes that 50 pst. is too small. Those who listen to the debate will be able to assess who they believe the most. But then there's also this with ambitions. We know that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås represented a government that had ambitions to clean Kårstø in 2009. It has still not happened. They had ambitions to clean Mongstad in 2014. It hasn't happened. Being taught about ambitions after you now see the results for yourself... No, you know what, then I rely more on my own judgment and the actions of today's majority are already in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2273	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2278	I notice that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås criticises the Council of State for raiding. It is an exercise with which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is well known – and quite good at. Let me start with the representative Juvik, who believes the government is waiting for everything and waiting for the EU before implementing measures. This must be a reflection of a lack of understanding of what the government and the cooperation parties are actually doing. This debate should in that case be informative to the representative Juvik, for there is no doubt that there has never been so much to speed up a green shift in the transport sector as it has done under this government, with the support of the cooperation parties with which we have a cooperation agreement. Examples have already been mentioned – and there are many – in the debate. I'm not going to go into everyone, but I think it's worth staying at the example that is used to say that you want to use up to 70 pst. State funds for collective action in large cities, since it is proven under the red-green that up to 70 pst. can be 10 pst. – and then I actually prefer that you grant 50 pst. for the major measures, so that municipalities and county councils are able to implement the major major projects. The supplemental scheme for bicycles is another example; 250 million have been used. kr there in 2015 and 2016, and this is under a system that the Workers' Party voted down when they themselves were in government. Now we're doing – and then we're doing it. I myself sat and negotiated the climate agreement in 2012 and remember well how we had to drag the red-greens with us to get them on something that was ambitious and committed to the future. The reason why there was a climate settlement – and it might be good to remind the representative Eidsvoll Holmås of – was that the government had submitted a climate announcement that was slaughtered unisonably by both the opposition and civil society and the environmental movement, and there was a need to put in place more binding measures. That's what we contributed to. Then the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has also talked about climate statistics, and then it can be worth mentioning that from 2006 to 2007, emissions rose sharply, during the red-green ones, so they fell to a bottom during the financial crisis in 2009, and then they rose sharply in 2010. But it's not like there's a financial crisis and a decline in economic activity that's going to save us, it's a transition to a society where we're maintaining the activity, but reducing emissions. That is the decoupling of economic growth and emissions that we need to achieve, and we are not saving the world by making Norway a poor country. That I think it might be okay for the representative Eidsvoll Holmås to put himself in memory. Then the government has done something important, and that is to invite us to join the EU's climate policy in 2030. It will lead to a significant shift in the transport sector and significant reductions in emissions up to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2295	It is great that the committee chairman and the case rapporteur are satisfied with their pressure in view of the green shift. They make it look like something that happened after the government change. The representative, Astrup, and I are not. The reason I made it in my post is that you consistently postpone all good suggestions and don't come up with the diversity of proposals for the Storting. In fact, the Stortinget itself has submitted a proposal for a representative to speed up the green shift. So now it's like this, and you just get to accept that you have a hard time understanding, that the Workers' Party is proposing up to 70 pst, because you see that it's not enough and you're not satisfied with 50 pst. It is after clear feedback – not least from the city we are in now, but also from others. Then you try to make it so that the Workers' Party is not too bet on a bicycle. At least the budgets that have been in this transport plan, for which I can vouch for, have not been included. And then you can just keep looking back in time – way back in time. We have a government council that wants to look all the way back to 1963, before both he and I were born. You might want to do that to raddle with other parties, but I think maybe we should see a little bit more in the future. I note that none of the proposals currently being put forward are currently in the hands of any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2306	I'll be brief. Thus, the representative Nikolai Astrup clearly states that they envisage a major and significant change up to 2030 as a result of the conclusion of the agreement with the EU he mentions. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there is now an exchange between the government and the EU and between the energy and environmental committee and the state councils in the climate field, where it is now becoming clearer and clearer that the government is putting forward a very broad strategy to plant forest in Norway and implement forest measures instead of implementing emission reductions, and where emission reductions are being made, i.e. reductions in the transport sector in other countries, rather than doing something in Norway. I am concerned about that development and think that this is enough of an example that the government only pushes on the emissions commitments, says they will not come back and determine anything for the transport sector until the EU has completed its work, instead of doing so an offensive government should have done, that is to say they intend to follow the development of the EU in their work on climate change in parallel, with exactly the same plans for its implementation. But we don't get plans. Concrete plans for how to become a zero-emission society, and how much to cut, I don't hear the Council of State saying he's going to put forward in connection with the national transport plan, and I encourage the Council of State to surprise me positively. If he does, I'll give the jam a message. The thing that I think it is important to point out when Nikolai Astrup pulls this up here with a wide climate settlement, is that it is quite clear that the reason why we wanted broad climate settlements from our side of SV in the previous government period was that we had faith and hope that it would move development in the right direction. At that time, there were suggestions from both the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right with things that contributed, and that it was possible to find together to go in a positive direction. This time, during this ageing period, one broad, inviting document with emission reductions, with ambitious emission reductions in Norway, has not been promoted in order to move closer to the goals we set in 2007, 2008 and 2012 – not one document that moves us in that direction. What has been done exclusively is to abolish all national targets by 2030. It has been part of the Christian People's Party and the Left, and then only goals have been set at EU level. It's the opposite of being the driver of conversion, it's stagnation, and unfortunately backward looking instead of forward looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2315	I am here at Stortinget and especially in the Transport and Communications Committee because I want to be with and build the country and try to get something for the future. This seems more like a history lesson of what happened before, and not the big challenges: what to do. This is especially true of Bergen's history. The mountain is a historic city – yes. So it's said that one has got 10-15 pst. State aid from the red-green in the case of collective investment. The big thing in Bergen is the city track. But I was on the Transport Committee at that time, and then it was like the Progress Party didn't want any city track – they called it sour tea, and there was something you shouldn't spend money on, at least not government money. Locally they were also skeptical, but now they're too urban tracks, and everyone likes the city tracks. The right was very busy – because then there was a reward scheme, it was a reward for the big cities, they got a reward in advance to bet on collective – and meant that no, there was only to be an objective criterion. We then searched for the objective criteria. Then Bergen had not received anything. So by means of a reward scheme, Bergen got about half a billion over a few years, which never went to the city track. Now we're talking about just giving 10-15 pst. And now one will give 70, while we guarantee 50 pst., five times more than that. I thought it was very wrong – when you look at this, if you are going to run history first. But initially, I didn't think we should run history; it's the control committee that's going to dig in it. We shall build the land, we, and look forward. Then one has to be glad that my party at the national meeting has said up to 70 pst. We're going to have to work very hard to get that much, but it turns out that the collective challenges in the big cities are bigger than what we thought, and there's a need not only for investment, but also for operations. I asked questions in the Question Time not so long ago if one would open so that more of the tolls could also go to operation, because it is requested in these big cities. But then the state council talked about something else, and then he said the state would give more. I don't think it's planned for the state to give more, but it's going to be exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2320	The representative Juvik reiterated his claim that we postpone all good proposals, and it was mentioned by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that there are many proposals in Stortinget. That's right, there's a lot of proposals in the Storting, but that doesn't necessarily mean that there are good suggestions. And what the story over the last few years has shown is that the government and the cooperation parties are able to work together on actions that are ambitious and that will deliver great results in the future. It is not correct that nothing is done in Norway, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says. There has been an enormous amount of happening on biofuels, and good news is constantly coming to light on new industrial projects as a result of changes in the framework conditions by the government and the cooperation parties. Electric car policy has been brought forward. Let us remember that the red-greens were not willing to extend beyond that we should have electric car advantages until it was sold 50,000 cars or 2017, whichever came first. Now we've extended the electric car benefits for a long time after we've passed 50,000 electric cars sold, we've changed the charge for hybrid trucks, so they've also become a good alternative. And it is not that electric car sales are stagnating due to a lack of benefits — if anything, it is that the supply of cars is too little to meet the needs of a pig-grown population in a country like Norway. It's going to change. Now Volkswagen has said that they are going to bet on all-electric cars throughout their chain. They shall build a battery factory twice the size of Tesla’s construction. This will change, and Norway is extremely well positioned to rapidly phase in many zero-emission vehicles with the framework conditions that this government and the cooperation parties have put in place. Jet fuel may now be placed on the market of biofuels from 2018. We're looking at how we can replace diesel trains with environmentally friendly alternatives, and green shipping is one of the bet areas for the government. So it's working systematically at all stages of the transport sector to reduce emissions. So the emissions increase by 1.5 pst. from last year. But let's see where they increased. They increased mainly in the quota sector, they increased in industry, and they increased in petroleum. But that means that as it increases in the ETS, European emissions do not rise, and so it is in the transport sector that Norwegian emission reductions can really have an impact on the global emission accounts, and therefore we are working as systematically as we do on this. Some were in the reward scheme. I think it was the representative Rommetveit who had a little history lesson for us there. Let's look at Oslo. Car traffic in Oslo fell by 7 percentage points between 2007 and 2014, and in the same period population growth was 14 p.m., and Oslo was smoldering by the government in rewards. I believe that was wrong. Fortunately, this government has corrected this error.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2333	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2336	Again, the representative Nikolai Astrup reiterates his claim that when emissions rise in the quota sector, they fall into the EU. It is – objectively – wrong. There are so many surplus quotas in the EU that there are no other places to reduce even if emissions increase in Norway. I think it is interesting that what the representative Nikolai Astrup is bringing forward is so much better under this government than under the previous government, is biofuel investment, all the time it is that the biofuel effort is something that the government has been forced to agree in two rounds, even though the Ministry of Finance countered the revised national budget and created uncertain framework conditions – once again, honour being a Christian People's Party and the Left. I did not say that the number of electric cars went down due to a lack of benefits. I said that the electric car sales went down, and the reason for that is that we have two government councils from the Progress Party who sit with the key here, and who oppose any increase in the total fossil car price, and the electric cars will not be more competitive either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2345	As far as the quota sector is concerned, I perceive that the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is wrong for several reasons. It is such that the number of EU emission rights will decrease by 43 pst. in 2030 in the quota sector compared to 2005. It is all the same that emissions in Europe will fall significantly in this sector, and industry and the petroleum sector are covered by this. I believe Norway should have the ambition to take a greater share of industrial growth internationally than what we are doing today, and that will also be good for the global climate. This will allow emissions from industry in isolation to rise somewhat in Norway, but it will cause global emissions to fall sharply in everything else, and then we will need to assist in technology development in order to make our industry as clean as possible within the framework we have at our disposal. In the case of biofuels, I believe that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has the gift of frenzy, because I remember very well that the then state council Erik Solheim opened a new biodiesel plant in Norway, and a few months later the same government introduced a biodiesel tax that forced the same plant to shut down, as a direct consequence of the government's tax policy. So when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås talks about that we have spread uncertainty about the framework conditions of this industry, well, then he should take a look in the mirror, because there were some people who created uncertainty about this – and not only created uncertainty, but put the entire industrial investment in Norway on hold – it was just the red-green ones. I understand that it was not the representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ wish that it should be so, but it was on his guard that it happened, and he must take responsibility as a result of it. In the case of the fossil car park, we – the government and cooperation parties – have changed the car charges, so that we pay even more attention to CO2 and NOx than we do today. It is positive, not least when the EU is now revising its test regime for these cars, and then Norway will have a charging system that is very well adapted to the future, and will help us to be able to phase in as environmentally friendly cars as possible as quickly as possible, and not least with a significant share of zero and low-carbon cars, thanks to the continued benefits that have been there, and we have ambitions to continue to do so. We have to have a charging system that is proportionate to the ambitions we have for 2030. Those ambitions are high, and fortunately there is an overall committee behind those ambitions. It promises well for the future – then we can let history be history and look forward, and then we have a lot to enjoy – and hopefully also for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2364	There is probably better expression than saying about their fellow debaters that they have ‘the gift of luck’. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2381	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2388	In this case, the Committee has largely agreed on most of the issues, with a few exceptions. Aviation plays an important role and air traffic is central to a well-functioning society. Aviation is undoubtedly part of public transport in Norway, and air traffic is essential for effective mobility both within and outside the borders of the country. Avinor’s societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of airports and air navigation services. In addition, the non-state airports come. Aviation shall provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system with good access for all. In addition, the transport system shall meet the societal needs for transport and promote national and regional development. Norway is a long-distance country, and people in Norway depend on planes to get around quickly and efficiently in this country. An overall committee therefore considers the flight routes as an important part of the collective offer, not least in District Norway, where there are many places where there are few alternatives. In recent years, airlines have taken important steps in a more environmentally friendly direction. Measures to reduce fuel use are good for the economic sustainability of aviation, while saving the environment for emissions. Increased use of sustainable biofuels is a forward-looking instrument for reducing aviation emissions. These developments agree that the Committee should be stimulated and intensified. Therefore, it is gratifying that Avinor is already betting on biofuels, and that this has now been made available at Oslo Airport – actually as the first airport in the world. Avinor has in addition set at 100 million. kr over a 10-year period to invest in biofuels and foresee a competitive price in 2025. Several industrial actors are developing synthetic bio-jet production. With a high supply of biomass from forests here in Norway and the Nordic countries, we have good assumptions for such production. Technology is known but needs to be further developed through large-scale production. In the long term – yes, to the extent that already – algae, both micro- and macro-algae, are also thought to be relevant, including in the case of biofuels. Investigations, including: a joint project between the aviation industry and Avinor shows that biojet production is fully feasible in Norway. The costs of such production in the start-up years will be higher than the expected market price of fossil fuels. Incentives are therefore important to move towards the creation of sustainable jet fuel in Norway. Financial support for the production of biofuels during a start-up period can contribute strongly to the development of new bio-industry in Norway, strengthen the Norwegian forest industry and make important contributions to more climate-friendly aviation. Avinor himself has set himself the objective of reaching 30 pst of biofuels. of all aviation fuels in 2030. An overall committee, with the exception of the Left, also opens the way for independent monitoring of the airport offer in the Eastern region, and is also requested to take a closer look at the location of non-governmental airports in Norwegian aviation. This has been even more updated with the decision of Rygge civil airport, which became known last week, to close Moss Airport Rygge from 1 November 2016 due to the much-mentioned flight seating fee. According to information from Avinor, the airport capacity in the East has already been investigated by a Swedish company in connection with the NTP report without me being familiar with all the details in it. This independent investigation shows at least that the OSL reaches its 2030 capacity cap with 90 planned movements per hour and then will trigger the need for a third runway. The Committee agrees to make Oslo Airport a strong hub in order to develop good, coherent route systems that meet the needs also in District Norway, and to prevent traffic transfers to foreign hubs such as: Copenhagen, Stockholm, Amsterdam, London and Frankfurt. The Committee believes that Sandefjord and Moss Airport are good airports for their regions but cannot fulfil the role of national aviation hub. The majority of the Committee, other than the Centre Party and the Left, also refers to the budgetary position for 2015, in which the majority of the Committee stated: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, will point out that it is urgent to clarify the required area for the third runway at Oslo Airport.’ The majority still assumes this. As I said, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee, with the exception of the Left, which will certainly argue for its own view.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2438	I would first like to thank the Christian People's Party for promoting an important and current document proposal, a proposal that focuses on two important elements. Firstly, it is the climate challenges. In recent years, airlines have taken important steps in a more environmentally friendly direction, with measures that both reduce fuel consumption and increase the use of sustainable biofuels. Studies show that the production of biojet is possible in Norway but that the cost of production in the start-up years will be higher than the expected market price of fossil fuel. It is therefore important for the State to provide incentives to facilitate the establishment of sustainable jet fuel in Norway. The government is asked to assess whether the instruments currently available for the development, production and use of sustainable biofuels and other zero and low-emission solutions are sufficient. The objective must be to enable aviation to achieve the emission reductions necessary for Norway to meet its emissions obligations by 2030. Increased use of sustainable biofuels is a forward-looking instrument for reducing aviation emissions. Reference is made here to the budgetary agreement between the government and the cooperation parties, where there was an agreement to reduce the initial fee by 25 pst. for aeroplanes using 25 pst. sustainable biofuels, with a view to replacing this scheme with a turnover requirement from 1 January 2018. Enova's fund for climate, renewable energy and energy conversion has almost doubled since 2013 and is approaching 70 billion. kr. The return from this fund may also be used to support pilot plants and technology development related to zero and low-emission solutions for air traffic. Innovation Norway's eco-innovation scheme has almost tripled since the government's proposed state budget for 2014 and thereby contributes to the support of a number of enterprises. Annex 1 to NTP 2018-2029, Basis for Climate Strategy, states: ‘In the guidelines for NTP 2018-2029, the overall objective for the transport sector is defined as follows: ‘A secure transport system promotes value creation and contributes to the transition to the low-carbon society’. Etats need to develop their role as a knowledge provider and drive to meet society’s expectations for the sector, while at the same time providing the low-carbon society with a long-term premise for future priorities in interaction with security and value creation.» For the purposes of this Annex, the entities have chosen to base the absolute cut of 50 pst. compared to today’s emissions of 16,5 million. tonnes by 2030, which is in line with the Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU. It is worth noting, however, that the climate strategy concludes that without a major shift to new technologies and fuels, it will be almost impossible to achieve a sufficiently large cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The second part of the proposal of the Christian People's Party includes the total flight capacity in the East. In Norway, aviation is part of public transport. Aviation shall provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system with good access for all. An overall survey of aerodrome capacity in the eastern part of the region is needed, including: Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge are included. This is updated in the context of the treatment of NTP 2018-2029. The time at which a third runway on the Gardermoen is to be built must be assessed in the light of such a total analysis. What cannot wait is the determination of the location of any third runway on the Gardermoen. We now have five non-state airports. The right considers that the investigation carried out by Avinor is largely concerned with the fact that non-governmental airports are involved in providing air passengers with an option. We believe that the non-state airports have a place in Norwegian aviation. The noise surrounding the air passenger charge must not overshadow the fact that there are many other elements of greater importance to the non-state aerodromes. Not least this is true of Avinor. That's why we want an independent investigation that can be corrective to what's in the NTP's basic document. This does not mean that the Right will rock the role of the OSL Gardermoen as the central ‘hub’ — both nationally and in Scandinavia — but we believe it is important that there is a competitive corrigendum for Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2471	The use of aeroplanes for both passenger and goods transport has become a very important and necessary means of transport for very many. Many communities have also flourished significantly as smaller airports have made them available for larger markets. It's a fact that the use of aircraft is going to increase. Environmentally adjusted? Yes. And to the delight of many – although perhaps some politicians would have wanted to ban aviation in general. The Progress Party has always shown technology development and how simple grips enable the market to deliver the services and goods we are looking for. We've been clear that carrots over whips must be mantra. This also applies in this case of a sustainable aviation sector. The Progress Party has always been and is still sceptical about fees rather than good incentives. I am therefore pleased that the Committee can continue to work through this proposal to get this further in place. There have already been good moves to ensure that airlines are rewarded for more use of biofuels. This is done with both a reduced take-off fee for aeroplanes and a large increase in the appropriations for Enova, which is constantly working on this. Although the percentage of biofuels per day is not as high as we might have wanted, it's at least an important signal that we're on our way in the right direction. It is beyond doubt when you see all the attention that OSL has received in setting this up — it almost gives you knowledge status. The Progress Party welcomes the fact that, in addition to this, we can also look at what incentives can be useful to ensure that biofuel production and use continue to increase. Furthermore, we believe it is important to assess such measures in the context of the development of a new national transport plan, to be adopted in spring/summer 2017. The opportunity we now have to look at our transport modes in a complete and coherent way, we must take advantage of it. It is therefore important that, through this transport plan, we ensure that we get a comprehensive picture of how the airport structure will be in the future. Changed and improved conditions on the road or on the road between cities could give rise to local aerodromes. We have to follow this up. Through this proposal, we support the independent mapping of aerodrome capacity in the central eastern region. It will be important to ensure predictability of aerodromes. It will also be particularly important for private actors who are not part of the Avinor system. During this we might imagine an extension of the flight, that what goes today from Gardermoen down to Drammen, maybe should go down to Torp – just to make them synergize with each other. People's transport and travel habits are ultimately about availability. There are several things working in these days that are constantly challenging our travel pattern. New technological innovations make transport easier and faster. Improved rail capacity or other public transport capacity will change the distances between city and country, north and south and east and west. We are following this trend very closely. But technology is moving so fast that the few of us here in the room today are able to imagine that the planes of the future may be driverless, and that trains in the future will not go on rails – it's going to go on their way. This means that we need to facilitate growth, facilitate demand, and not least for unreal opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2494	This motion for a resolution is twofold. We have two proposals for decisions, both of which seem to have a majority today. There's a little bit different thematic in the two proposals, and I'll go into both of them. One of the proposals on which the rapporteur was concerned is the total airport capacity in the central eastern region. For aviation it will become increasingly important in the time to come. Aviation is an important part of our transport system. We have a long country, we're getting more and more traveling, and the population is increasing. Then it is important that we make sure that we have an offer that not only meets today's needs, but also takes into account the need of the years to come. Travel patterns and population composition change over time. It is an important task for the State to assess the overall needs of aviation and the overall resources from an overall perspective, including as regards the infrastructure not included in the Avinor portfolio. That's why the Christian People's Party, and I'm glad that the majority supports us on this, believes that there is a need for an independent investigation that provides an overall survey of the airport capacity in the central eastern region. Yes, there's been a lot of attention, as more people have been about, around Moss Airport Smoking lately. This airport will be a natural part of such an investigation, and we need to look at what opportunities exist. At the same time, I would say that such an independent investigation must go beyond this current issue. It's important. We're going to get an overview of the overall need, and not least how we can make the best use of resources. This work shall also include a closer look at the location of non-governmental airports in Norwegian aviation. The second issue – the second proposal that we have made, and which we are largely in agreement with – is more environmentally friendly air transport. Air carriers themselves have taken important steps in a more environmentally friendly direction and have introduced measures to reduce fuel consumption. That's good. This is good for the economic sustainability of aviation and at the same time saves the environment for emissions. Over time, technological developments can provide the basis for a high-capacity aviation industry, adapted to new market needs, while respecting environmental considerations. In this image, sustainable biofuels are a keyword. Biofuels, well and branding sustainable biofuels, are a forward-looking instrument for reducing aviation emissions. This development should be stimulated and intensified. Several industrial actors are developing synthetic bio-jet production. There is good access to biomass from forests in Norway and the Nordic countries, and we have good assumptions for such production. The technologies are known, but they need to be further developed through large-scale production, which can be commercial and portable also in an economic perspective. So at the same time, we know that the production costs will be higher than the expected market price of fossil fuels in a start-up phase. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes that the state should contribute incentives. Then we can get a faster phase-in, and we can get ahead of establishing sustainable biofuels for planes in Norway. At the same time, this will also be positive for the Norwegian forest industry. I refer to what is now the proposal for a decision. That is a very good proposal. It is positive for aviation, it is good for the climate, and it could help Norway, in cooperation with the EU, to meet its emissions commitments of 40 p.m. reduction by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2513	I would first of all like to thank the Christian People's Party for promoting this proposal. It is an important matter, and it is important that we have it debated. Secondly, I would like to thank the rapporteur on the matter for bringing together so much detail on the three points on which it is based. I also think that is very positive. Aviation is important for the whole country. It's public transport. I use to say that's my bus. Without the ability to take planes, it would have been a long journey. Even if trains pass by near where I live, it takes so long that it is not an alternative – between 13 and 15 hours. Then it goes without saying that one is not very connected when one is going to be out as often as many of us are. So aviation is important, and it's important that we find good solutions for the future to have an aviation offer that allows people to be mobile and can commute, as many do. The central party supports independent mapping of aerodrome capacity in the central Eastern region in a future perspective. We believe it's very right time to do it, not just based on the situation that is today, but also on the future. Now, at these times, the debate on Rygge and the dramatic developments are going there. It has to be taken and looked at in view of what may be relevant to the future, with the aerodrome lying there. Another is Torp, which is not a state airport either. It's good to see this in an overall perspective. Oslo Airport Gardermoen is going to be a hub for many of us, and it's important for us, but you should look at the whole of the east. There are several people who have pointed out good arguments for doing so, so I'm happy that the committee is unanimous. In the Centre Party, we also believe that increasing the use of sustainable biofuels is a truly forward-looking instrument, and I am very pleased with the initiative that has been taken, which not least Avinor has stood for, in the case of biofuels for aircraft. It's very, very good. It is a forward-looking tool to reduce emissions from aviation, and it is a work that needs to be intensified. We also believe that financial support for the production of sustainable biofuels in Norway is a good thing. It contributes strongly to the development of new bio-industry. It will strengthen the Norwegian forest industry and make an important contribution to more climate-friendly aviation. In other words, social benefits are significant and can contribute to a healthy growth of aviation, which promotes competitiveness and well-being in a country that is highly dependent on mobility. We are today, and we are going to be dependent on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2526	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and not least the rapporteurs. It is very important to reduce aviation pollution, as proposed by the representative. The left is pleased that aviation is taking climate responsibility and that Avinor is betting on biofuels. At Oslo Airport, as the first airport in the world, this is now made available. Avinor's set 100 million. kr over a 10-year period to invest in biofuels and foresee a competitive price in 2020-2025. Left will have an aviation with reduced CO2 emissions. However, the left considers that biofuels will not solve all air pollution and it is therefore appropriate to charge emissions from aviation. The left believes that ticket prices are very low and that a low oil price contributes to it. Low prices lead to increased air traffic and pollution. As part of a green tax shift, activities such as pollution must therefore cost more, such as: to fly, while at the same time a lower tax on income must be applied. The left believes that we need significantly higher taxes on what we want less, namely pollution and CO2 emissions, and much less taxes on what we want more of, namely work, businesses and environmentally friendly behaviour. The left considers that aviation should be stimulated to use more environmentally friendly energy sources. Both second-generation biofuels and hydrogen solutions need to be stimulated. In the 2016 government budget, the left was passed through to give 25 pst. in discount on the blending fee for aeroplanes with a minimum of 25 pst. Biofuels. The left refers to Lufthansa, Swissair, Austrian Airlines, Germanwings, Eurowings, Brussels Airlines, SAS and KLM, which have entered into biofuel agreements. The result is that these companies participating in the green shift come out better and will be able to offer lower prices to their customers. The left considers increased use of sustainable biofuels to be a forward-looking tool for reducing aviation emissions. This development should be stimulated and intensified. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, I would like to inform you that we support the proposal to ask the Government to assess whether the instruments currently available for the development, production and use of sustainable biofuels and other zero and low-emission solutions are sufficient and, where appropriate, propose new concrete measures, so that aviation can contribute to emission reductions that are necessary for Norway to meet its 40 pst emission obligations. reduction by 2030 in cooperation with the EU and return to the Storting in connection with the submission of NTP for 2018-2029. The left considers railway policy and aviation policy to be two sides of the same coin. Trains have to replace flights domestically in South Norway much more. It is good environmental policy to use existing infrastructure on Rygge and Torp instead of building a new runway on the Gardermoen. The left believes that a new intercity network will lead to an even closer link between the airports of Rygge and Torp to the central parts of the East and thus to an enlarged surrounding area. The left believes that a connection of the Westfold Railway, the country's most busy route, with the Southland Railway will also shorten the journey to Oslo from Southwest Norway. Therefore, the left considers that new runway 3 on the Gardermoen must be postponed beyond the next national transport plan 2018–2029. At the surrender meeting, we were incurred outside the proposal submitted by the majority, as I was not at the surrender meeting, but we can fix that now. So the left will inform us that we are going to vote in favour of the majority proposal, where the Storting asks the government to do an independent mapping of the airport capacity in the central eastern region in a future perspective. In this context, consideration must also be given to the location of non-state airports in Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2551	Good transport and good infrastructure also means that we're going to help people travel the long distances in a simple way. Then aviation is one of the best modes of transport we have. Contributing to the development of good, efficient and safe aerodromes is important. This has been done through, for example: change in Avinor's dividend policy, where Avinor has retained more of its profits in order to finance, inter alia, the investment. Flesland and Gardermoen. That's a policy we think is right, and we're going to keep going. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that the aircraft that flies have as low emissions as possible, and that the state is involved in contributing to it. It takes place through, for example: charging policies, but this can also be done by investing Avinor, owned by the State, in more environmentally friendly fuels. I think that Avinor has gone ahead and shown both the willingness of responsibility and the ability to redeploy in the way they see new projects. They have been involved and taken responsibility, as several have mentioned here, and have an investment programme of 100 million. kr to look at how to develop new, sustainable and profitable biofuels. One has also made a major contribution to the deployment of biofuels on aeroplanes. I have on several occasions been involved in marking milestones on the Gardermoen, for declarations of willingness to use biofuels and even actual use of biofuels. I want us to facilitate that. It is important that the biofuels used are sustainable. I have seen that everyone in the hall agrees. And I would like to make this happen in Norway, but it has to be profitable in the long term. It makes no sense to contribute to producing something that one could do better and cheaper elsewhere, while taxpayers are going to subsidize it. However, it is very interesting to see that many major players in Norway are seeing a technological development that will enable profitable and sustainable biofuel production in Norway to become a reality. Enova has many programmes to contribute to investment support to establish that type of production facility, and we will continue to work on that. The Committee then asks that we also look at the airport structure in the East. In the basic document of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, the transport modes and Avinor have assessed the need for a third runway at Oslo Airport Gardermoen. In this context, an aerodrome capacity mapping has been carried out in the central eastern region. In line with the decisions that Stortinget is now making, I want an independent mapping of airport capacity to be carried out from a future perspective, so one will take on the basis of what is and what one has done, but also try to predict developments. As part of this survey, I would also like to look at the place of non-state airports in Norwegian aviation. We have said in our government platform that we want to facilitate incentives for private operators to operate airports as well as provide services in and around them. That's something that we want to follow up, and that's also in line with what the mass mass here wants. That means we should be able to do a good job with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2572	I see in the document that lies here, that the Left is pleased that the Progress Party and the Right were in favour of a seat tax, which we now see has great consequences. Yes, if the NHO figure hits, it can actually mean a loss of 5,000 to 6000 jobs. But unlike the Left, which calls this an environmental tax, the Minister of Finance admits that this is a tax to balance the budget. I'm excited about what the Council of State will do in the future. On 27 May we could read in Today's Business that research director at the Transport Economics Institute, Harald Thune-Larsen, believed that if the government really wants a fee that reduces the number of flights, the fare for the flight of 88 kroner would have to be approximately five-folded to around 400 kroner. My question to the Council of State is whether we can fear a further increase in next year's government budget, so that it not only becomes a fiscal charge, but, as the Left wishes, a tax that reduces people's desire to use both domestic and foreign aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2581	I think that if the representative Juvik thinks carefully about it, he knows very well that today's government did not propose the air passenger fee, and that it is not in the nature of our party to resort to increased charges. At the same time, we are faced with the compromises reached by the majority of the population, and the government is obliged to implement them. At the same time, I am very pleased that today's majority chooses this solution if one is to have a fee first, rather than the solution that the Workers' Party, the Centre and others have rather wanted, namely to remove the tax-free scheme. Removing the tax-free system would have been the safe death not only for Back, but for very many other airports. We know that if one were to compensate for the loss of the income of the Avinor system from tax-free, one would have to have a tax that was far higher than the air passenger fee that is now involved. In the choice between two different approaches where one tax more flights, the scheme now adopted by the majority is the least evil.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2588	For once, I'm glad that the Council of State responded to something quite different, namely the tax-free system, because it's starting to go back to this room, without any root in reality. It is correct that there was a sample that looked at the tax-free system, but the State Council has probably got what the Workers' Party concluded in that case. The working party has not intended to remove the tax-free scheme in Norway. You're looking at the organization, that's right. So let's at least leave this stuck. There should be no doubt about where the Workers' Party is in that case. I think people are much more concerned about what the Progress Party and the Right in the government can do about new taxes in the years to come, but I record that the Council of State will not respond to it. Turning to another issue concerning airports: one is for an investigation of the non-governmental, but is it that the Council of State is willing to do so at the expense of today's Avinor airports, or should it be a supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2595	Even today, private airports are an addition to the Avinor airports. So I answered the question, just as I also answered the previous question. I went some parallels and some history, because if you look at what the Workers' Party has written in the Stortinget setting, it is more serious in terms of the tax-free arrangement than the representative Juvik now gives the impression. Similarly, the National Assembly of the Workers' Party also proposed to investigate the fee that has now been introduced. However, I still note that I do not think the last words have been said about the flight situation and the fee. SAS announced early that there would be fewer departures as a result of the fee. Now that they have presented their programme, it shows that there is a sharp increase in the number of take-offs. In contrast, what is likely to be the case for Smoking is that it is due to a requirement for proper working conditions and similar to the one at the base of Røgge that Ryanair will no longer be involved – and not the fee. That's what most analysts know about the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2602	I'm not going to contribute to the debate on things that have been, I'm going to ask the Council of State about what's going on on sustainable biofuels, and what we have to do to get it developed on a slightly larger industrial scale. The councils were so far within it in their posts and were positive, but pointed out to a large extent that Enova had a lot of resources that could be used for setting up industry. But the Storting asks the government to see if that is enough, and I ask – in this situation where the oil industry is facing challenges, and we have seen over a long time that unemployment is increasing, in some areas of the country at least: wouldn't it make sense to go a little stronger from the state, so that you get established industry that can produce sustainable fuel? It'll be a cheek egg in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2607	It is important to participate in and contribute to the development of many types of industries with more legs to stand on. Over the past eight to ten years, and indeed since the trend reversed in 2003, growth in the Norwegian economy has largely resulted from increased investment in the oil and gas industries. It made us very unilaterally dependent on one industry, despite the fact that many warned against it and wanted to improve the framework conditions for, for example. Power manufacturing industry from data centres, etc. I'm very proud that today's majority in Stortinget has just done so – improved the framework conditions so that it is now more profitable to invest in renewable energy than it was before, through changes in the depreciation rules and green certificates. We have made it more profitable to operate the hydropower-based industry in Norway by getting more control of the hydropower, as opposed to the change the previous government made. And you've reduced some charges on green data centers. That we should also look at the possibility of investing in biofuels is quite natural, and that is part of the policy that the government has, but that is not the only thing we have to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2612	It is positive that the Council of State warns that he will take a look at it. I would like to remind the Council of State that a good part of the changes that have taken place in the field of renewable energy has been a broader majority for than just the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, so that's something the Storting is concerned about. You want to develop the country so that you have more legs to stand on. Then I think it's important that we are offensive from the state when we're in the situation we're in. We need jobs, we need to create. By the way, ‘the green shift’ is the word I’m not very happy with. For me, it's more about putting nature into action wisely. Here we have the opportunity to do that, so I ask the Council of State to look carefully at whether it is possible to intensify the work so that we can both phased into biofuels in the aviation industry and established industries that can be important, for example. in the case of biofuels, long-distance and road transport. How do the government councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2617	I believe the best response to this was actually the representative of Astrup in the previous debate, who pointed out the history behind the biofuels policy and the tax. The previous government opened up the biofuel pumping plant, which had to decline due to the previous government's tax increases, while with today's government we have reduced the fees and have seen a sharp increase in investment. I think that's very good. I also record that the forest industry is becoming increasingly involved in methods for producing biofuels. We also see that the forest industry says that they have reduced their transport costs by up to 50 million. kr in the year so far, as a result of the efforts made by the majority of today on road maintenance. It also makes it easier for the industry to make money in delivering raw material to the biofuel industry. Then I would also like to stress that I have registered that among today's large majority, there is a broader expansion that is for the changes in the framework conditions that I mentioned, green data centres and so on. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that in the previous eight years. Then the same proposals were voted down by the usual majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2624	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2640	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2647	This representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is based on a situation where the costs of ferry operations have increased significantly in recent years. At the same time, there are relatively few operators left in this market, and we are facing a significant replacement of ferry services in the renewal of tenders and the transition to low- and zero-emission technologies. I think most people agree on the problem description, but there may be different perceptions of how this can be solved. In the proposal for a representative, the Christian People's Party proposes to establish a state-owned company and that market players compete only for the operation of the ferries. According to the proposers, this will provide a basis for more competition, increased innovation and stronger governance of environmental technology requirements. I'm not going to go into the different parties' assessment of the proposal, I'm going to leave it to the individual, but I'm going to give some consideration to the challenges we see in the ferry market. It is a fact that competition in the ferry market is characterised by few operators. In total, there are four companies in this market and this allows competition to be perceived as limited in a number of calls for tender. The tendering system as such depends on effective competition, and the situation is today, there is reason to raise questions as to its proper functioning. When we know at the same time that two of the companies are considering joining forces, a matter that is now under the supervision of the Competition Authority, that does not make the situation any better. Furthermore, we have a situation with a relatively high average age at the fermenterial. This is a result of many years of neglect, in which there has been insufficient call for tenders or contracts with the ferry companies. So there's a aftermath in the renewal of the shuttle. In the coming years it will be necessary to impose stricter emission requirements. The government has already started that process, for example: the Anda-Lote route was called for low- and zero-emission technology at the time of the submission of the tender. That means that two new ferries, one elf and one hybrid ferries will be built. Another example is the good news before the weekend that the company Boreal is building a new environmental ferry at Fischerstrand Verft AS on Sunnmøre, developed by Multi Maritime in Førde. This is a low-emission diesel electric ferry with the possibility to run on biodiesel. In addition, it is prepared for conversion to hybrid, plug-in hybrid or full-electric battery mode. It is impressive to see how both the shipping company, the yard and the maritime industry meet this challenge, which in turn means new, exciting jobs. A very large proportion of the ferry sections, both on national and county roads, will be invited to tender in the next few years. It will then be important to impose strict environmental requirements while at the same time ensuring that the standard for transport is raised. At the same time, we need to ensure that new technologies are put in place in a sensible way. DNV GL has pointed out that there is a risk that we will get too many ferries with first-generation technology unless this is handled in a sensible way. The Labour Party has called for an acceleration of tenders in previous debates, but it will be doing ourselves a service of bears. The solution is a controlled phase-in of new technology. We will then have the best solutions, reliability, rational cost development and many opportunities for Norwegian industry. The administrative reform in 2010 transferred a large proportion of ferry services to county municipalities. It was probably the worst possible time for the county councils to assume responsibility. After the first round of calls for tender and reduced costs, we have seen a consolidation and significant increase in costs since 2010. This is a significant challenge for ferries and makes some county councils struggling to impose the necessary requirements on standard and environmental technologies for the renewal of tenders. Therefore, it is good that the government now updates the cost keys for ferries in the income system, so that they better reflect actual costs. In addition, we see good examples as Hordaland County Municipality, which has received considerable funding from Enova to facilitate new environmental technologies. This is an example of follow-up for other counties. The challenges of creating an environmentally friendly ferry offering with sufficient capacity and frequency are extensive. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has already started work on how we can develop the ferry market, including the market situation, the forms of contract and the organisation of the purchasing function. This work also includes an assessment of any distinction between operation and ship. This work will be completed by 2016, and it is natural that it is part of the work on the national transport plan. Although we see some challenges and practical problems related to the model as proposed by the Christian People's Party, we still find it natural that this is part of the Road Service's assessments, as the Council of State has also pointed out. It would not be right to exclude any alternatives at this stage of the process. Then we'll do a total assessment when the investigation is complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2673	Let me first thank the case-speaker Helge Orten, who, throughout his case-speaker's proposal, has provided an excellent and good description of the challenges when it comes to the ferry business in this country. I would also like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for addressing, through the representative proposal, a matter that is very important to those of us who travel along the coast and who are also important in transport policy. Although the main focus of the proposal for a representative is on the national road transport network, the problem description is almost identical to that of the county authorities. These are challenges that need to be addressed. I also think it is good that the Ministry of Transport has started a holistic assessment, which is a warning to be done within a short time, because there can be no doubt that the cost developments of recent years, the general need to renew the ferry fleet and not least the need to quickly get to a ferry sector with low- and zero-emission ferries, mean that we need to look at the organisation and structure again and with an open mind. The Labour Party meets the work of which the State Road Administration is now due to be in the final phase. However, I want to show that in the composite proposition, Prop. 126 S for 2015–2016, which we will deal with here in Stortinget in just a few days, shows that in 2016 and 2017, competition for a whole of ten new national road haulage service will be published or published. In addition to the major challenges I have just mentioned, the number of competitively based areas is showing that it is now urgent to review and define future principles of organisation and structure in the ferry sector. It makes sense for the country in the contracts to be entered into in the near future to consider whether they can be entered into in such a way that they are not locked up for any future changes in the sector. After the Workers' Party's assessment, it is disappointing that the Government Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been some of them to put this matter into the big message about the National Transport Plan, which is due to come in spring 2017. I was so lucky that I was able to be involved in the handling of Stoltenberg II's transport plan in the spring of 2013, the same plan as the state council Ketil Solvik-Olsen is so lucky to be allowed to run after, and that makes a lot of good in Samferdsels-Noreg. I can assure all those engaged in transport policy that the treatment of NTP is a very comprehensive task that will require all our time and attention towards the end of spring session 20l7. Adding such an important issue as the future arrangement of the ferry sector into the upcoming NTP is therefore not a good idea. The Labour Party has then also asked the Stortinget to present this matter earlier. As a conclusion, I know that the Central Party too has been busy, I would like to stress once again that the challenges are not less within the state-owned ferries regime – perhaps rather the opposite. I hope, therefore, that the matter, when the government returns to the Stortinget, also contains a review and suggestions that you can look at across the board. The working party expects the government to propose measures to facilitate the situation in the state. Together with the Centre Party, we are therefore also some of the reasons why the government has to propose a scheme to compensate counties for additional investment costs, such as the transition to low- and zero-emission technologies in the ferry sector. It is surprising that this proposal has been supported only by the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I'm making this up with the suggestions the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2692	The representative of Magne Rommetveit has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2695	We live in a country with a very long coastline, and very many of our inhabitants use ferry as a means of transport to get to work or other tasks. Many of these have been shown to be operationally stable. Working on ferry-free routes is well under way, and the government is working intensively on this. It will be essential to ensure the stability of the inhabitants of these areas. Bad weather conditions sometimes also contribute to the stoppage of ferry traffic, and fixed connections will ensure that this is no longer so vulnerable. That being said, we will still have a few years in advance to insist that ferries are necessary for many. Then we have to make sure that this offer is the best possible. Over the last few years, a formidable increase in costs has been recorded in new offers for ferries. There is no single reason for this, but different requirements and the need for increased capacity may be some. Furthermore, it is also a fact that the administrative reform in 2010 transferred the main weight of the ferry link to the county municipalities. A large part of our ferry fleet is very old, and there is a need for renewal. There are feedback that a fragmented ownership and an unfortunate focus on the renewal of the ferry are being followed very differently. I would like to point out that the government has put in place an important work to explore the organisation of ferry services in Norway. The Progress Party welcomes this work but supports the proposal that is being promoted. We support the idea that a state-owned company can be viewed as one of several opportunities for organisation. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention that Norway has a significant yard industry ready to accept orders for upgrades or to order new ferries. We have to make use of this. A large part of the contracts for ferry services, whether state or county, shall be renewed in the coming years. This picture must then be seen in an overall context. Like the rapporteur, I would like to say that the Progress Party also shares the skepticism of the Christian People's Party's original proposal, but is pleased with the proposal on which we now stand. I will also leave it up to each party to comment on the proposal as they wish, but I want to mention that there is absolutely no automatic in that a full state ownership is always the best solution. Having said that, I fully share the concern about fragmented ownership and different follow-up. The Party agrees that it is important that the ferry fleet also be renewed in order to comply with environmental requirements. But I want to make it clear that it's also important here to use good incentives and carrots over whips. Increased number and cost-effective requirements will have a negative impact on reducing the costs of ferry services. With this in mind, we look forward to getting back to the ministry's review of the matter. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal County, who have done a great deal of work to get an overview of the status of the ferry fleet and its costs. It is my call to the Department that we now look at the work done there, before we conclude with the further organisation of the ferry sector. Finally, I would also like to highlight the importance of looking at the upgrading of the ferry sector in the context of the establishment of continental connections on the routes in question in order to obtain the full cost and investment picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2723	Norway is a ferry country. The highways and highways are a natural and important part of many people's lives and everyday lives. Therefore, it is important that the offer must be good and reliable with frequent departures and good comfort. At the same time, we need to make the ferry more environmentally friendly. There are a total of 17 national road ferries transporting a total of 9.6 million vehicles per year in Norway today. It's 113 counties ferries transporting 11.4 million vehicles. A total of 130 national and county ferries and 200 ferries total 21 million vehicles per year. The annual turnover of the national and county roads is 5 billion. kr, of which 50 pst. is a grant. In 2016, the country will purchase national road haulage services for nearly 1 billion. kr. This says a little bit about the scale. Norway is a ferry country. However, the challenge is that there has been a large increase in costs in many ferry services. Government expenditure on the purchase of services and materials has increased more than the average price increase would be expected. The transport budgets basic document to NTP shows that national expenditure on the purchase of national road haulage services has increased by 60 pst. from 2010 to 2015. The budget assumes that the cost will increase by a further 50 pst. by 2017. At the same time, transport modes estimate that needs will only increase, and more capacity is needed on ferries and berths. It will provide further increased cost growth. This is a challenge for many states, and at worst it can also provide more expensive tickets for customers. Some of the problem is clearly lack of providers. In some places we have almost a monopoly state. Then there can be artificially high pricing from the provider. Ferry connections are currently exposed to competition, but the market is not functioning well enough. The tender contracts will be unnecessarily expensive. In addition, many ferries are very old, several of them built in the 1960s and 1970s with old-fashioned technology and high emissions. These should be replaced. A large part of the procurement contracts for both State and county relations shall be renewed in the next few years. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the renewal of ferry offers is used to renew the ferry and ensure new and more environmentally friendly ferries. It will provide better ferry services while making a significant contribution to lower emissions from the transport sector. In addition, requirements for new and environmentally friendly ferries will mean new tasks for the yard industry. It is important at a time of downsizing and failure of mission volumes in other markets. The Christian People's Party will organise ownership and operation of ferry services in a different way from today. As I have already seen, one of the main challenges of today's situation is just a lack of competition. It's simply too few providers. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the state must take greater responsibility for the material situation on the highways. I am pleased that it is a majority to ask the government to evaluate this proposal by the Christian People's Party. A state ferry company as one of several alternatives we think is good. In a State company, the State may own all cargoes, but the operation of the ferry services itself is put out of competition. This means that the State will own and control the ferry and that the material will be made available to private operators operating the individual route. The Christian People's Party understands that this needs to be investigated, and that the government considers this when reviewing the future organisation of the ferry sector. The results of the work are then presented to the size of the NTP, in line with the decision taken here today. I am pleased that it is clear from the decision that the future organisation of the ferry sector must meet the objectives of increased innovation, phase-in of environmentally friendly technology and cost-effective operation. The Christian People's Party believes that with a new organisation in line with our proposal, the state can contribute more effectively to technology development, and we can phase in new and more environmentally friendly ferries faster. New and modern ferries can at the same time provide a better offer to travellers, with increased ease of use and better comfort. Through a new model, the state can stimulate innovation and development more effectively and, at the same time, when we know that the yard industry is in a difficult situation, a state-owned company with a clear innovation strategy can provide new jobs in a pressurised industry. I look forward to the work that will now be done, and I would like to commend the government parties for the offensive and positive attitude in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2744	The centre party points to the fact that the background to the proposal to set up a state ferry company is the cost increase in the operation of ferry services. We in the Center Party do not believe that the increase in costs is due to the lack of a state company. We think it is rather a consequence of a new tendering regime and demands made by the buyer. That is why we are not going to support the proposal. But that being said, the Central Party shares the concern about the increase in costs, especially for the county road links where the county council has not been compensated for increased costs. We have a lot of county road links in this country, and it's quite demanding in the framework of county municipalities. We support increased environmental requirements. We've been doing that for years. We want to ensure a zero-emission vision in both national and county road connections. It requires major replacement and conversion of material, which will reflect the price of the ferry contracts. Therefore, the conversion to a more environmentally friendly ferry sector must be ensured by government funding. Then we believe it is necessary to establish a state funding mechanism to ensure that county councils can play an active role in realising the zero-emission vision for the ferry sector. I know a lot of county councils like that, but they don't have an economic opportunity to do that. We have therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The State budget is requested by the government for 2017 to propose a mechanism to compensate the county council’s additional costs by requiring zero and/or low-emission schemes for the ferry sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2758	The left does not support the proposal for a representative to establish a state carrier. We have noticed the recording from NHO Maritime that the organisation of the ferry sector is now more fragmented after the counties assumed responsibility for the county roads. However, we believe that this will be resolved when larger and strong regions are created, which can see more holistically in traffic within the region. The left considers that the cost increases in the ferry sector are more complex than those expressed by the proposers. This includes increased quality requirements such as opening hours, regularity, environment, safety, equipment and universal design. I would like to refer here to Oslo Economics, which highlights in a report that it cannot be concluded that there are too few operators in the Norwegian ferry market. The left also believes that time to design contract offers is essential to get more providers for each call. The NHO Maritime Service points out that much can be done to organise this in a better way on the mission side. The left will therefore warn against eliminating the competence of operators experienced in ferry operations. The establishment of a state-owned company to build ferries could lead to a reduction in the rate of innovation and likely to increase the costs associated with the maintenance and upgrading of materials. The left indicates that the world's first all-electric ferry goes between Lavik and Oppedal. It can therefore not be claimed that the industry is not innovative enough. The State and Enova contribute to the green conversion of the industry, and the Left believes that the development of a domestic market for low- and zero-emission ferries will enable Norwegian shipyards to compete on the international market. The left considers that predictable framework conditions need to be established so that shipping companies can choose the best environmental solution at any time. We're a little surprised at the government's accession here. In any case, the left considers that there is no need to investigate the proposal for a State carrier of its own, and will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2771	Ensuring good transport over the fjords is important. Many of us who come from the West know how annoying it can be when the last ferry has gone – and not necessarily just then, but when one is only half a minute late and knows that it is an hour to the next departure. It's important to look at the ferries as an extension of the road on which a driver runs. These include: This is why a person also works hard to establish mainland crossings in many places where he has a ferry today. But we have to deal with the ferries being part of the everyday life of many and will be there for a long time. However, we are a little concerned about the cost growth that is, because it can mean more expensive tickets for travellers, but also because it seizes appropriations for the state budget. That's why we in the government have discussed this with the Road Directorate many times, just to see what we can do to bring down the costs. Some of the costs are properly imposed by ourselves as politicians. Decision-making on more stringent environmental requirements, increased capacity, improved material and multiple take-offs also imposes costs on you. We have to take them. But in it there is also a cost increase at the bottom, which makes you worry about development. We also see that one has gone in the direction that there are fewer ferry companies, but still many buyers. It may also mean something for the price that the market ultimately requires to provide a particular service. That's why we've done the job that I said, and because we've got the Directorate of Road to start an investigation to look at both ownership, purchasing systems, contract strategies and opportunities to distinguish between operations and ships. What's reasonable and not, I'm not going to conclude with now, but we're attending the report that the Road Directorate is going to be doing, and that's probably coming to the autumn. As soon as that report is available, it will be sent to the county councils at the hearing. I think it's important that we find a solution here that's long-term and that stands. That's why I also think it makes sense for one to do this in conjunction with the national transport plan. When someone shows impatience, it's so far nice and good, but in general, the same people tend to think that everything else the government does is happening too fast. In view of the fact that we want the county councils to be involved here precisely because this is both the state and the states that are the buyers, I think it makes sense that the county councils also get some time to change when they give their input to the state. If we were to present our case already in the State budget for the autumn, that means that the county councils would in practice not have a hearing period. It wouldn't give you any good solutions. But I have very much faith that we will find good solutions when we deal with this in the national transport plan. Let me also remind you, when someone says that there is too much to be decided on in the national transport plan that one gets done properly if one is also going to think about the ferries, that there is a lot to be adopted in the state budget too in a very short time, which makes me think it would be a worse treatment of a matter as important as this. But I appreciate the commitment that the proposers have. It's important that we find common solutions here, which means it's over time. If that means that a dramatic change in organisation and responsibility, if you get better cooperation or in other ways make changes, I think we can discuss up to. But I'm concerned that it's not just the Road Directorate and the government that's going to have views on this, but also the county councils, which are big and important road owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2792	I understand that we're going to be knocked down when it comes to our proposal for urgent decisions, so this gets us in the national transport plan. I refer again to something I mentioned in my article. I Prop. 126 S shows that a competition for ten new ferry connections will be launched in 2016 and 2017. My question is: wouldn't it make sense if the state in the contracts to be concluded in the near future could rig the contracts so that they don't lock up any future changes in the sector? Can one at least take a height for it, so that one does not, when one after the NTP process comes to a system that should be almost permanent, have already locked up on some contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2799	Firstly, I believe that doing as the Workers' Party proposes will be an unfortunate haste. When the Directorate of Roads is going to present its report in the autumn and we want to get the counties to give feedback, that means that the counties would not be given the chance to give feedback if we were to simultaneously get the case into the budget papers that Stortinget will have in October. To do as the Workers' Party suggests, to omit the states from working on such a scheme, I will regard it as very, very unwise. With regard to the contracts to be concluded, it will always be that the more risk is imposed on the offer, the more costs will be assumed. Of course, it's in everyone's interest that we make sure that we have some flexibility, so if we find better solutions, we'll be able to take it with us. We'll try to take that into account as best we can. Which form it will find in the contracts, is a little too early to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2806	Thank you for that. I think it's nice that one is at least obsessive about that aspect. It's another aspect that I didn't include in my article. This is true of the ferry strategy's link to industrial policy. Several of our best companies that live by developing a maritime product depend on a home market that helps build, develop and test new products. The Norwegian maritime supplier industry is a major international industry, and it is the international market that drives the companies. In the light of the review of the State Road Service, I am busy with facilitating Norwegian business in the future strategy for the ferry sector. Can the Council of State confirm that in his proposal for the Stortinget he will also focus on these aspects – and I am also thinking about Norwegian environmental technology and not just the yard?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2815	I believe that the government is already doing so in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have said that we need to invest more in environmentally friendly ferry technology. It is also part of the government platform and as part of the understanding between the four batches that we should apply zero-emission and low-emission technologies when allowed by the market. I think someone already sees it. On the Anda-Lote section, mentioned in the setting, one, as mentioned above, uses environmental technologies. So one more order an electric ferry and a ferry with a little bit more optional technology, but still with environmental categories at the bottom. Hordaland County has been allocated nearly 300 million in two rounds. to support their work in purchasing eco-friendly ferries when they are about to publish new tenders. So we see that Enova also provides a lot of support for the construction of electricity and other land installations, which will facilitate this. We know that ferries with a lot of environmental technology at the bottom will often be best for Norwegian shipyards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2822	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2838	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2852	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2866	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2872	An application for sick leave is submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen from 30 May until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2890	Lene Langemyr is present and will take the seat. We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2899	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 3, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that children of 12 years of age who wish to change their legal sex, but who do not receive the consent of any of the parents, be allowed to apply to the State or any other appropriate body on an independent basis for an assessment of their wishes.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2927	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to carry out an impact assessment of legislative proposals for the change of legal gender before the Stortinget takes a final position on the legislative proposal. The size asks the government to take into account this work that a change in legal gender is based on a declaration model, where the requirement for sterilisation and medical conditions/diagnosis is lifted. The government further asks the government to base its work on the Impact Assessment Expert Selection Recommendation that authority ages should be a general rule, that persons between 16 and 18 years of age should be able to change legal gender if none of the parents disagrees, possibly that the County decides that from 12 to 16 years of age parents may require change if the child so wishes, and from 0 to 12 years of age according to their parents’ requirements and according to expert judgement. The size request that a 3 to 4 month reflection period be introduced and that legal re-adjustment be made only if specific reasons warrant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e2941	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive investigation explaining the possible consequences of the proposed law amending legal gender in Norway, in line with the initial order.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3058	The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3069	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3080	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3087	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Centre Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government, in the context of the overall review of the compulsory legislation, to evaluate and review the Commission’s work to ensure that it is highly professionally strong, has sufficient resources and transparency to do a full job.’ The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3112	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess an evaluation of the changes to the Law on Mental Health and any other changes to the health legislation governing the use of coercive measures, in order to make visible the extent of coercive measures and how the services/measures are experienced by users.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3208	The second paragraph of Section 4-6 of Section I is the first to be voted on. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3219	It goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3228	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3237	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3244	During the debate Kjersti Toppe put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in international efforts to ensure the transparency of the pharmaceutical market.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3314	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3323	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3330	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a concrete action plan for increasing the use of mobile health technology.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to develop a technology-neutral funding model that provides incentives for the use of different health technologies in healthcare.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3360	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide annual information on the State of the National Welfare Technology Programme and the National eHealth Action Plan and to ensure that welfare technology is an integral part of healthcare by 2020.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3391	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the solution introduced for the distribution of laboratory samples does not entail additional costs for patients, municipalities, contract specialists or healthcare undertakings.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for temporary solutions that ensure the right of the population to an equivalent health and patient safety.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3421	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an appropriate permanent solution for the distribution of laboratory samples on Fridays, so that they can be sent to the laboratory on Saturdays.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3725	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3734	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3741	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Helge Orten on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 3–5, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Magne Rommetveit on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to consider establishing an incentive scheme for transport buyers in its work on the strategy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3769	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and submit a national port plan with a view to strengthening the competitive conditions of shipping.’ Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government is asking for such a national port plan to ensure better cooperation between ports, to help make ports more efficient and environmentally friendly, and to improve logistics in and out of ports.’ Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to put in place a system of grants for ports in an appropriate way to make them more efficient, more environmentally friendly and more intermodal.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3795	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government in the context of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 to investigate and present measures to improve port cooperation, to improve port efficiency and environmental compatibility, and to improve logistics in and out of ports. Such an investigation must include assessments of the port structure and the measures that can be taken to make it more efficient.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size refers to the national transport plan basic document 2018-2029 where a port grant scheme has been proposed and asks the Government to assess the appropriateness of such a scheme to make ports more efficient, environmentally friendly and intermodal.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3890	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Kjell-Idar Juvik, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 7, by Kjell-Idar Juvik on behalf of the Workers' Party, 8-13, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for advance payment of road pricing for all heavy goods transport, as an alternative to today’s fuel user charge, to strengthen the ability of rail and shipping to compete for freight.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3916	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the proposal for a new national transport plan to set a target of at least a 10 per cent reduction in passenger car kilometres in the major cities and zero growth in the rest of the country, and to set this as a minimum requirement in all agreements with the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the proposal for a new national transport plan to base zero growth in air traffic.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to stop plans for new runways on Gardermoen and on Flesland in the submission to the new National Transport Plan.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3942	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in the submission to the new National Transport Plan to set a target of a minimum bicycle share of 15 per cent in 2030 in all cities concerned by urban packages.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3958	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose strict emission requirements on NOx and SOx emissions for all cruise ships to operate in Norwegian fjords.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3974	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the State supports large collective investment in the major cities by up to 70 per cent of the investment costs of these projects, against the commitment of cities to the zero growth target in passenger transport and contributing to environmentally friendly urban development.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3982	President! SV shall also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3987	The Socialist Left has then announced that they should also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e3998	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take into account a long-term objective of zero emissions from the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government to provide a comprehensive overview of potential instruments and their potential emission reductions in 2020, 2025 and 2030 in the context of the National Transport Plan Scoreboard 2018-2029. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the forthcoming National Transport Plan Communication 2018-2029 to propose a binding escalation of the subsidy scheme for the construction of bicycle paths on municipal and county roads, in order to achieve the objectives of an increased bicycle share.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative to test hydrogen trains on one of the non- electrified sections in the passenger and/or rail freight modes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the draft government budget for 2017 to present a plan for how Storting’s decision No. 388 requiring public transport as a general rule to use zero or low-emission technologies or climate-neutral fuels.’;» [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for shore-side electricity for all vessels in the next tender on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e4092	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Magne Rommetveit on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, by Magne Rommetveit on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case on the future organisation and structure of the ferry sector in the state budget for 2017.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e4117	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget is requested by the government for 2017 to propose a mechanism to compensate the county council’s additional costs by requiring zero and/or low-emission schemes for the ferry sector.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e4141	Behind the setting is the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Central Party, the Left and the Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e4189	Case No. 14 and 15 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 69 and 70. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-30.ana.ud1336e4264	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
