ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e25	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Sverre Myrli from 11 October to 13 October to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dnipro, Ukraine from the representative of Kristin Ørmen Johnsen on leave from 11 October to 13 October and from the representative of Snorre Serigstad Valen on leave in days 12 and 13 October, both to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health For Buskerud County: Christopher Wand For the South Tribute County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e71	State Council Siv Jensen exceeded 4 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e90	On our watch we have been confronted with one of the largest covers of the Norwegian economy in recent times. From summer 2014 and last year the oil price fell by over 70 pst. This is the most serious fall in oil prices in 30 years. It's noticed. Our oil-heavy economy in the South and West is particularly hard hit. Oil companies have had to cut costs, and several have lost their jobs, both in the petroleum industry and in completely different industries in the region. The government takes the challenges on the labour market very seriously. Having a job to go to is important for the individual. Safe jobs balance differences, provide freedom of choice and greater opportunities for all — and this is not least important for both value creation and well-being. Unemployment is not just numbers, percentages or statistics. It's a single man, a person who loses his job. They lose work-groups, colleagues and not least the income that finance family expenditure. Safe jobs for even more people are the government's most important job. The government will use targeted measures to create activity and jobs in the regions and industries most affected by the oil price drop. It's a composite picture. Parts of business go well. The many companies I meet around the country experience harsh thanks, but it is also a strong move against and optimism. The switchover is therefore also about thinking new and forward-looking. This is the state budget. At the same time, we see that the policy we have pursued over three years begins to produce results. Fewer is in a health queue. There are more policemen. More children go to kindergarten, and school classes around the country are getting more and more skilled and engaged teachers with professional replenishment. Municipalities merge and prepare for the challenges of the future. There are more entrepreneurs, and there have probably never been so many new businesses. Trains are more frequent and increased maintenance has made trains more precise. The maintenance run on the roads has also gone down, and many of us now travel on safer and better roads. This creates a safer and simpler everyday life for most people and facilitates the creation of value in business. Today's budget will solve several of the challenges people most face today, and prepare us for what's coming. In 2017, we continue our efforts to strengthen our social security network – for vulnerable children, for young people who need help to master everyday life, for adults who risk falling out of work, for addicts and for those who need health care. We continue to invest in transportation and build more roads and lanes. We will facilitate tomorrow's jobs by focusing on knowledge, research and innovation. We continue the implementation of the tax reform, and we reduce taxes to make it more profitable to start new businesses and create new jobs. This will strengthen our well-being today and secure Norway for the future. It's in challenging times that we're now fully seeing the benefits of our solid economy. While most other oil exporting countries have had to tighten public budgets after the fall in the oil price, we have been able to face economic hardship by using the freedom of action provided by the oil fund. Both in 2015 and 2016, the State budget, together with low interest rates and weaker crowns, has contributed significantly to supporting work, activity and conversion. I am glad that the improvement we have been waiting for in the Norwegian economy, now seems to be coming. Growth is on the rise, supported by strong economic policies. Both households and businesses look brighter in the future, and registered unemployment has fallen in most of the country's counties in the last year. But it's too early to report the Norwegian economy. Economic growth has so far been moderate, and employment has not kept pace with population growth. There are considerable geographical differences, and in the south and west countries, unemployment has increased considerably after the oil market covers. The budget contains an equally large package of measures aimed at the South and the West and affected industries as in last year's budget, totaling 4 billion. kr. We propose, among other things: exceptional maintenance grants to municipalities in the South and West so that they can clean up schools and nursing homes. Hospitals in the South and West are to be modernised. Roads shall be paved and pedestrian and cycle roads constructed and upgraded. In addition, we propose additional funds for flood and scrap protection. The measures meet two important concerns; we put free hands at work, while at the same time carrying out the necessary upgrades of public construction and roads. We continue to raise to an exceptionally high level of labour market measures. We continue to extend the right to daily allowance during the period of leave and incentives for outlawed and retired apprentices. It gives more help on the way back to work. A variety of private ownership is important for creating and securing jobs that contribute to value creation and well-being. The Government proposes to introduce a temporary arrangement for the deferred payment of property taxes for owners of accounting deficit businesses. Thus, owners of enterprises in a demanding phase do not have to bottle up the company for capital in order to pay the property tax. These measures also include the DEMO 2000 oil research programme, the upgrading of research vessels, the maintenance of maritime defence and grants for the maintenance of churches and the restoration of museums. Temporary recruitment positions at universities and higher education institutions and new places of study are continued at a high level. Similarly, a number of business-oriented schemes are designed to help businesses and entrepreneurs from good ideas to profitable jobs. The government will also accelerate the acquisition of new coastguard vessels by two years. The acquisition is reserved for Norwegian industry for national safety reasons and increases activity for Norwegian shipyards from 2018. These measures will help to keep the wheels in operation in the affected areas. The government has focused on giving priority to action that can work quickly, while at the same time being able to reverse it when the situation so warrants. The 2017 State budget thus responds to the challenges facing Norway and continues to make a strong effort to mitigate the effects of lower oil prices where it has been hardest hit. The measures come at the top of the government's already offensive effort on the road and track, health and police. Overall, the 2017 government budget contributes to a 0.4 pst increase in demand for goods and services. of the value creation of the mainland economy. The use of oil money is increased by 15 billion. kr, to 225,6 brd. kr. Economic policy is working. The action package aimed at the South and the West has helped to limit the growth of unemployment. Continued vigorous efforts for work, activity and migration are important to avoid high levels of unemployment in those parts of the country where it has increased. At the same time, the significant improvement in our competitiveness gives cause for optimism. With a dollar rate as it has been on average in the last few months, our cost level is back at levels from the mid-2000s. It is expected to contribute to an increase in exports in the future. Low interest rates are also likely to continue to support consumption and investment at home. Although it may take some time before we see the full effects of improved competitiveness, we already see signs of growth in some industries. An example is the tourism industry. Several have spent their holidays in Norway, and the number of overnight stays has increased in the last year. There is also a great demand for Norwegian seafood. The fourth year was tough, and the forecasts show that we also have a challenging year ahead of us. But the danger of an even stronger setback in the Norwegian economy now appears to be less than in winter. After being halved twice in a short time, the oil price has now risen to about $50. The future market indicates that the oil price should be slightly higher in the long term. In oil companies and supplier companies, large cost cuts are carried out, cost cuts that contribute to the profitability of more oil fields. Norwegian companies have won many of the assignments in the construction of the large Johan Sverdrup field. Several thousand people go to work every day on the project in the current phase. In the years ahead, the Johan Sverdrup field will generate revenues for the community of several hundred billion dollars. It tells us that the Norwegian oil adventure is far from over. But the petroleum activity will not be the same engine for the economy as before. Norway must therefore be converted. We've been through conversions before, and we know that changes are always demanding. But history has also told us that there is no alternative. That's the way it is now. We have known for a long time that the Norwegian economy must get more legs to stand on. The oil price drop has accelerated this. Less dredging from the oil industry is a lasting structural change. The challenges cannot be met with short-term measures alone or with a large-scale expansion of the public sector. We need to create new jobs in the private sector that can help finance well-being in the future. The heroes in this transition, yes, it's not us politicians. It is the founders, the businessmen, those who see solutions and opportunities. It is the labour effort of people across the country, in small and large businesses, who carry the Norwegian welfare society on their shoulders. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one presupposes the other. Safe and good jobs with the ability to create profits over time do not come of their own. A good tax system is important for the competitiveness of business, for jobs and the basis for value creation and well-being. A good tax system is also important for individuals. When you can decide about larger parts of your own income, it stimulates you to work more. When we lower corporate tax, we make it more profitable for business to invest, invest and create new jobs in Norway. So far, we've reduced taxes by over 18 billion. kr. Both the majority of people and the business community have been relieved. The government proposes new net reliefs in taxes and taxes of a total of 2.8 billion. NOK 2017 and we continue the phase-in of the tax reform. Most importantly, the proposal to reduce the tax rate for companies and persons from 25 to 24 pst. The rate is to go down to 23 pst. in 2018, in line with the tax settlement in Stortinget. At the same time, we reduce marginal tax rates so that most people get lower taxes on last earned heads. Then it becomes more attractive to work a little extra. With the government's tax relief, a normal family with two incomes and debts on owner-occupied dwellings will pay over NOK 8 000 less in taxes than when we took over. Over the years, considerable investment has been made in machinery, technology and premises to create safe jobs. The government wants Norwegian companies and owners to continue to have good assumptions in future when investing in and converting Norwegian business. The property tax inhibits private Norwegian ownership because it only affects Norwegian owners and can weaken investment in enterprises dependent on Norwegian capital. Strong Norwegian ownership of the business sector is important, not least in economically demanding times. Therefore, the government reduces not only the corporation tax but also the property tax, especially on working capital. The government is now proposing to introduce a 10 pst valuation discount. for shares and operating funds and the associated liabilities. The discount is increased to 20 pst. in 2018, in line with the tax settlement. We have already reduced the tax favorisation of secondary housing and commercial property. From 2017, the government proposes that the corresponding debt be valued in the same way as these property items, i.e. 80 pst. With the changes, more of the private savings can go to investments in business. At the same time, the Government proposes to further strengthen the FUNN Scheme in order to stimulate research and development in enterprises. The amount limits are increased for both self-executed and purchased research and development. This comes at the top of the government's previous changes to the TaxFUNN scheme, which have contributed to the fact that the appropriations are more than doubled from 2013, to about 3,1 billion. kr in 2016. In line with the tax settlement in the Stortinget, the government also proposes the introduction of a financial tax on wages and profits. The purpose of the financial tax is to correct for the absence of VAT on financial services. The government has provided significant relief in corporate tax that has also benefited the financial industry. In addition, the value of the VAT exemption currently enjoyed by the industry will continue to be significantly higher than the financial tax. The Green Tax Commission has given us advice on how the tax system should be changed in order to take more account of environmentally harmful activities. The government follows up by proposing a green tax shift in this budget. The government's proposal means that environmentally justified taxes are increased by nearly 1.6 billion. kr. Those who pollute a lot have to pay a little more. We add up to sectoral reliefs in taxes and charges together with compensations, so that the drivers will pay in total less next year than they do today, while delivering a green shift in line with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The government proposes to increase user charges for petrol and diesel by 15 and 35 øre per litre respectively. The proposal helps to balance the tax differential between diesel and petrol and to improve the pricing of the cost to society of road traffic. The CO 2 tax on mineral oil for off-road use is today lower than for petrol and diesel for cars and trucks – although a gram of CO 2 has a similar adverse effect if it comes from a boat, excavator or car. In line with the recommendations of the Green Tax Commission, we are proposing to raise the CO 2 tax on mineral oil to the same level as for petrol and diesel. In order to tackle the climate challenge and reduce emissions, we need businesses and most of the people on the team. Even with a slightly higher price of petrol and diesel, the drivers come out of this, with a total relief of more than 900 million. kr. We propose to reduce the annual fee for cars by 12 pst. real. It makes it cheaper to own a car. We move the charging load from owning to polluting. It's a good environmental grip. The travel allowance is increased. It's important for many with a long way to go to work. The deduction also applies to persons using collective services on long journeys and thus, overall, it becomes more profitable to travel collectively for those who have the opportunity to do so. In order to compensate business for increased fuel costs, the government proposes to increase the depreciation rate on taxis, buses, trucks and vans. In addition, a subsidy scheme is proposed to reduce toll tariffs outside urban areas. Less tolls will benefit ordinary families and businessmen. Overall, the green tax conversion contributes to strengthening climate reconciliation and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The one-off charge for vehicles is proposed to be further shifted in an environmentally friendly direction. This has become an important tool in climate policy. We have had good results with previous conversions of the one-off fee. No EU country had lower CO 2 emissions from new car sales than Norway last year. This is due, inter alia, to: that the parties to the government and the parties to the cooperation Christian People's Party and the Left have changed the car charges. When we premium those who buy low-emission cars, yeah, people buy low-emission cars. During the previous government, there was a record in the sale of diesel cars. Under this government, there is a record in the sale of low-emission cars. This is how the environmental policy of the future must be designed. A faster renewal of the car park will contribute to more environmentally friendly transport. It does not just keep increasing the fees. Taxes and taxes also have to be reduced, that's how we get a green shift. New challenges give rise to new technologies, new industries and new jobs. The conversion of the Norwegian economy and the green shift are therefore going hand in hand. The government has raised Norway’s ambitions in climate policy. Our goal is to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. There is a change of pace in Norwegian climate policy, and we are following up with concrete proposals. We are increasing efforts to develop and implement new climate-friendly technologies. We've got a railway budget that prioritises maintenance. Trains are more frequent and more precise. In addition, it is cheaper to travel because the price of the annual and monthly tickets on the train in several areas is reduced by 20 pst. And we're increasing the effort of large-scale collective projects in cities. At the same time, we know that there are still challenges that we have not found solutions to. Then the focus on technology and research needs to be improved. CO 2 management is important for the world to achieve its climate goals. The size and government have high ambitions for a full-scale demonstration installation for the capture and storage of CO 2. It requires that we work with a focus on establishing a good decision-making basis. The government is therefore proposing to grant 360 million. kr for concept studies of full-scale CO 2 management in Norway. The government will make green and environmentally friendly production a competitive advantage. Norway has a good starting point – with pure force, a well-educated population, advanced technology and world-leading knowledge environments. A good example of this transition is the development of Hydro's pilot plant in Karmøy, which, with the support of Enova, will develop technologies to reduce energy consumption in the production of aluminium. In the State budget, Enova is allocated approximately 2.3 billion. kr. In addition, the initiative on the ENERGY programme is promised, and we propose to allocate 71.5 million. for research. The effort shall focus on achieving the 2030 climate objectives, especially in the transport sector. Together with the government's commitment to research for change and innovation in business, the government is making this budget possible for Norwegian knowledge environments to contribute to green transition. The government has made a significant contribution to trade. With the draft budget, the appropriations for transport will increase by over 20 billion. kr since the government change. That's an increase of almost 50 pst. In the state budget, we continue to build the country through a major investment in infrastructure. The government is proposing a budget for approximately 66.8 billion traffic. kr. Overall, the appropriations for road, rail and public transport development will exceed the framework for the first four-year period of the current national transport plan by nearly 9 billion. kr. A well-developed infrastructure provides the basis for increased value creation in the Norwegian economy. Good accessibility and low transport costs improve business environment, so that new jobs can be created. It also makes everyday life easier for us all, whether we commute to work, pick up children in kindergarten or drive to a cabin. At the same time, we should get more back for our investments. Then we have to take care of the infrastructure we have. After several decades of increasing delays, the maintenance run on the road and on the railway have been reduced. The government will continue to give priority to maintenance in 2017, so that our companies can get ahead faster with their goods. We also make arrangements to build new roads. We're switching funds to new ways over Solli Height between Bjørum and Skaret. It facilitates a faster connection of E16 between Oslo and Hønefoss. With a new route on E39 between Bjørset and Skei in Sogn and Fjordane, there will be a safer route on a route that currently has some very poor standards. And with funds for starting up Rogfast, the government is taking an important step for the ambition of new ferry-free E39. At the same time, the new road operator shall plan, build, operate and maintain several road sections. The government proposes a significant increase in the subsidy to the new company to provide continuous development once the machinery is in place. It means more way for the money. There is a high level of activity for railway investments. The government's draft budget provides for good progress on all railway projects under way and for the planning of new projects. We prioritise the maintenance and renewal of the railway so that more people can get to and from work faster and more effectively. Since the beginning of the 2000s, crime has fallen, and there is one group of people that has a particular impact on our security. I would like to thank the police. It delights when Norwegian policemen calm worried families, use words before physical power and get smiled at by children who have experienced things they should be careful for. The police act with cleanliness and respect, are professional and give us all security. But we know that the fight against crime is far from over. The government wants a safe society. A secure society creates freedom – the freedom to move freely without fear of assault, the freedom to live the life that you want, without fear of being harmed. For three years in government, we have provided more than 1,000 new police posts. It's increasing the proximity of the police. At the same time, we are implementing a close police reform that will improve the police's ability to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts. The government will further increase the police staff, and we will therefore expand the police districts' area of action so that they can recruit 350 new police officers in the coming year. Today's police helicopters are old and have to be replaced. Purchases of two new police helicopters that will be operational from 2019, with an option of a third will be initiated. It strengthens preparedness. The modernisation of police ICT systems continues with this budget. When the police have increased resources and become more effective, the settlement capacity may be pressured. The government has assessed both traditional and non-traditional solutions to improve prison capacity and to remove the reconciliation queue inherited from the previous government. The best short-term solution was found in the Netherlands, where incarceration in Norway is 242 places. Last year, the first prisoners moved in, and this helps to reduce the number of settlement queues. While we continue to rent prisons in the Netherlands, several prisons are to be built in Norwegian prisons. 181 new prisons in Ullersmo and Eidsberg are completed until next year, and a new prison in Agder with departments in Fromand and Mandal is under construction. The defence of the country is one of the most important tasks of the country. At a time of more uncertainty in the world and a new security policy situation, the defence's ability to deal with crisis and armed conflict in its own and allied neighbourhoods must be given higher priority. The level of ambition and preparedness requirements of the defence must correspond to the threat picture required. In the decades behind us, the defense has neither been given priority nor the necessary resources. The former governments have left behind and must now be brought in. The 2017 State Budget represents a change in the pace of defence policy. The government’s proposal for a new long-term defence plan was submitted to the Stortinget before the summer. It's an ambitious plan, and it'll take time to implement. A modern and adequate defence cannot be built up overnight. 2017 will be the first year of the new long-term plan. The government is proposing to strengthen the defence budget by 1.1 billion. kr in 2017 for the follow-up to the long-term plan. By doing so, we will be able to step up efforts to rebuild the defence capacity of Norway. This will secure Norway for the future. Substantial resources are made available to absorb the maintenance kit run that has built up, to acquire spare parts and to rebuild emergency stocks. The aim is to increase the operational capability of defence in the short and long term, by strengthening accessibility, endurance and preparedness and by renewing the material.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e253	If Norway is to have a defence capable of addressing changing challenges at all times, the current threat picture does not only require a sustained commitment to the Defence through adequate financial framework conditions. It is also necessary to continue to renew and continue to improve the efficiency of the internal sector. One year ago, Norway was in an exceptional situation. Our borders were under double pressure – partly from migrants seeking to escape poverty, partly from people fleeing from war and destruction. Some of those who come to Norway have higher education. It should be used. Others need basic language skills and education. We're making that right, while we're also very clear that it requires self-help. We propose to continue the mechanisms of integration, volunteer coordinators and dialogue groups against violence in reception. At the same time, we introduce 50 hours of cultural and social education for asylum seekers, and increase the number of test runs in Norwegian. The increased grants to settle refugees continue. Over time, it is crucial for successful integration that those who are allowed to stay, have a home, learn Norwegian, work and participate in society. The government therefore places emphasis on the work of integration policy. But we must be honest that high levels of immigration challenge integration policy and the sustainability of Norwegian welfare systems. If the good Norwegian welfare systems are to be sustainable in the long term, it is essential that those who are allowed to stay contribute to the labour market. So far, few asylum seekers have come to Norway. This contrasts sharply with the record arrivals last autumn. Strict regulation, rapid return and successful integration are essential to safeguard the Norwegian welfare society. We've only recently seen a negative development in Greenland in Oslo. Children and young people go streetways, they get in touch with crime easily, and many don't have a living environment that gives good growth conditions. It inhibits integration. The Oslo Police are warning of developments they are seeing. For this reason, the government is proposing funds for a regional effort to reduce crime and create a better daily life for residents in the area. The government's objective is that everyone should have access to equivalent quality health care. Norway should be a welfare society that provides us with security of care and care at the stages of life where we need it most. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, the Government shows that we give priority to the health and care sector. In recent years, waiting times in specialist health services have been significantly reduced. The average waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment is reduced by 11 days from 2014 to 2015. In somatic treatment, waiting times decreased by four days from 2014 to 2015. The government wants to facilitate this development. The number of treatment queues has also been significantly reduced. There is a result of three years of significant increase in hospital appropriations. At the same time, we have introduced free treatment options, deployed available capacity, increased use of input-driven funding and removed the ceiling that determined how many patients could treat hospitals. But too many people are still waiting for treatment. It's a bad economy to keep people waiting too long for treatment. In addition, rapid treatment provides safety for individuals. Therefore, the government proposes to increase the appropriations for the specialist health service by nearly 1.9 billion. kr in 2017. It allows for a growth in patient treatment of about 2.1 pst. In 2017, the government with new investment loans will contribute to several hospital projects. The government proposes to grant investment loans to a new hospital in Stavanger, upgrading the central block of Haukeland University Hospital, new psychiatry building at the Southern Hospital and upgrades at the Health Executive. These are in addition to the continuation of loans to investment projects already under way. Cancer patients must experience good quality, rapid follow-up and safe treatment. We have built up diagnostic centres in all health regions in cancer. We have established a package process, which provides quick and predictable treatment. Now the government will start a new cancer operation. In the State budget, we propose to start work on the establishment of proton treatment in Norway. For some, proton therapy may be an alternative to regular radiation therapy. It is promising that long-term radiation damage will be reduced for some. It is particularly important to facilitate children and young people to live as normal a life as possible, complete school and participate in the labour market. The government's budget proposal enables municipalities to strengthen important welfare services. Under this government, municipalities have achieved a significant real growth in their income. Operating profit for the municipal sector in 2015 was the best since 2006, and the tax intake in 2016 has been significantly higher than previously estimated. This has given room to cancel the service offer in the municipalities of the country. The government is proposing a growth in the free income of the municipal sector of 4 billion. NOK 3,6 billion. NOK to the municipalities and SEK 450 million. kr to counties. It gives municipalities a good space to continue developing services that are most important in people's everyday lives — kindergartens, schools and care services. A worthy care for the elderly is a heart issue for the government. We nordics live longer and longer. It in itself confirms that we have a well-developed welfare society, with good housing and good health care. That's why there's a development we're going to enjoy. More older people in the coming years also mean an increased need for more care places than is currently the case. In 2014, the government increased the State investment grant for the construction and upgrading of lucky day care facilities. This has led to a change of pace. The number of places of granted grants per year is on average approximately doubled compared to the years before 2014. To date, the government has facilitated investment grants for rehabilitation and the expansion of 7 500 lucky days care places, and the government's aim is to facilitate an additional 1 800 places per year. At the same time, we are proposing to change the investment grant into lucky day care facilities, so that from 2021 onward, only projects that increase the total number of places will be supported. It facilitates the increase in the number of happy days care places in the coming years. The government also wants people with dementia to have a daily activity offer. Day activities are presented as one of the most important measures to live a good life with dementia, as they can contribute to meaningful days of social inclusion, security and mastery experience. This budget provides 750 more day-to-day activities for residents with dementia. The government will also ensure that the care of the elderly has both warm hands and – not least – wise heads. That is why we are committed to raising the skills of employees. Most families are doing well today, but many may experience crises or challenges requiring assistance from a good public utility. When crises occur in families, they can quickly have ring-effects, for children and for the working situation of their parents. I am pleased that we have arrangements that can assist, such as care for parents with very ill children. But we've seen that today's system doesn't work well enough. We are several who have met despairing parents who strive to get their everyday lives together – a everyday life that will balance working life with leisure time and being a good mother and father to a child with a serious illness. We have seen that today's care arrangements are strict, complicated and not predictable. And we've met parents who are put in the impossible situation that they have to choose whether they're still going to work or provide the care and care that their children require. It's not a worthwhile situation. Therefore, the government parties have said that we will make changes to the care allowance scheme. In this budget, we deliver on it. Children who are ill need their parents. We are now proposing to extend the care scheme by including working parents to some groups of sick children who are currently outside. This applies to children who are not life-threatening or very seriously ill but who still have a continuous need for care, and to children with a permanent illness. At the same time, we will simplify current legislation and make it more flexible by increasing the possibility of gradating performance to facilitate the combination of care and professional participation. This is a matter which fortunately does not apply to so many, but it is an issue that is incredibly important, and which will make everyday life easier for them. The new scheme will provide more dignity and well-being for the vulnerable children who need it most. A better offer for those with drug problems has been important to the government. Regional health establishments should therefore give priority to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. In the draft budget, there are 300 million. kr of the growth of the free income of municipalities, justified by the Land of Detoxification Plan. Good health is not just the absence of disease. Good health is also mastering your own life. With the escalation plan for the drug field, we provide a strong boost for treatment, housing, health care, early interventions and aftercare. It's about creating good and holistic services and getting a change for the better for the individual addicts. Good health is also about mastering damage or disability. I have been present at the Knight's Purgatory for now three years in a row. There I've seen impressive sports performances. Most of us think that two miles of skiing is a long trip. But imagine then that you stack the same distance only by using your arms, or go the distance without being able to see, or put out steep hills and swoop into narrow turns without otherwise governing after the voice of your companion. The riders are the spokesmen of most, and they will hardly characterize themselves as sick. So there's no doubt: good health is about mastering. This is the starting point for government policy – including, of course, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. At the same time as this draft budget, the Government is presenting the Plan of Stepping Up and Rehabilitation and proposes 200 million. kr to the plan in 2017. The plan will help to enable municipalities to provide a good rehabilitation offer to their inhabitants and to take over more rehabilitation tasks from the specialist health service over time. It shall contribute to strengthening the user perspective and quality. Changes in both forms of work and competences are necessary to achieve this. Getting back quickly after illness and injury or getting good help living with a chronic disease contributes to increased mastery feeling, better health and a safer everyday life. Nothing is more important to people's opportunities in life than education. Ensuring good education that facilitates competent and innovative citizens in the future is one of our most important tasks. Today's children and young people are going to meet a technology shift that we don't know the dimensions of today. Technology will invariably characterize many of the jobs of the future. It's an exciting development. It challenges the way we think about work and economics today, but there will be changes that we will not be able to do in the future. In order to succeed, we must start early in the course of education. All children must benefit from school. Today, students who are starting to hang out in school have a lot of problems getting back in. About 20 pst. students leaving primary school have so weak basic skills that they can have problems with further education and work. Early effort is a support bar in government's school investment. So the government is proposing 150 million. kr to the municipalities in order to lift the early school effort. A good learning environment at school ensures that all children are given the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in the future. We're not going to tolerate children being afraid to go to school in fear of meeting the bully. Bullying poses a risk of long-term health damage, reduced working capacity and reduced functioning for many students. The fight against bullying and for more children to feel good at school, we never give up. The government will therefore strengthen the enforcement apparatus for bullying, facilitate better support and guidance for students and parents, and improve the competence of molestation in kindergartens and schools. Good schools also require competent teachers. The government continues the great teaching promise and facilitates more than 5,000 teachers to be offered further training next year. From 2017, the Government will introduce new, five-year, master-level education for primary school teachers. It will enhance the skills of teachers and provide better education in school in the future. Good students with full focus on the studies are an important premise for future competence. The government has presented a plan to extend the period of educational support to eleven months in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In 2017, the government proposes that full-time students in higher education and post-secondary education should receive support for about a week more than that resulting from the current legislation. In order to ensure future growth and prosperity, it is also essential that we focus on research and innovation. The government is following up in the budget the great commitment to research that is part of the long-term plan for research and higher education presented by the government in 2014. The long-term plan is a milestone for Norwegian research and higher education and provides predictability and long-termity for both business and research and education environments. In 2017, we are following the long-term plan with increased appropriations of approximately 550 million. kr. With this, the government will increase the appropriations for the long-term steps and long-term priorities by more than 2.3 billion. kr for the period 2015-2017. The 2017 government budget is a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. The budget is characterised by the results of government policies. The government has responded to the challenges facing Norway, with effective measures and a responsible economic policy. We have met a lower oil price with a powerful package of measures that keeps the wheels running and puts several hands to work. At the same time, we are preparing for tomorrow's challenges: We simplify, renew and improve Norway. The reforms we have launched will increase productivity and secure well-being. We're making a significant contribution to transportation, we're building more roads and lanes. We facilitate tomorrow's jobs through increased awareness, research and innovation. The implementation of the tax reform continues, and we reduce taxes to make it more profitable to create Norwegian jobs and to work more. We reduce the waiting time in the healthcare system, so that more people can get back to work faster and a well-functioning everyday life. We're expanding care provision with new places, while raising quality. We're raising the stakes for addicted and vulnerable children. We are strengthening the local economy, and we are strengthening integration. This is how we guarantee well-being today and take Norway safely through the long-term transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e375	The President will now propose that a comment round be opened limited to one entry from each group with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representative of the opposition party is given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up in up to 3 minutes to the end. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e386	Today, the government has presented its last government budget in this period, and with that we have received the final answer to what choices they have made, and what priorities they have made and have not made. The Right Party and the Advance Party took over a country in very good condition in 2013, and today we are starting the summary of what state the Right Party and the Advance Party are leaving the country in. There is a lot of good going on in Norway, and we have a starting point that most people can just envy us. Despite the crippling criticism of the Norwegian model by the Minister of Finance, she does not quite have to tear it apart, and in some areas there are signs of enlightenment in the Norwegian economy. That's good. We get good drag help from a low crown price, but there is no doubt that several arrows point in the wrong direction either. The proportion of the non-working population has not been higher than 20 years. The proportion of the working population has not been lower in 20 years. Almost no private sector jobs are created on this government's watch. The budget presented today shows that there is a situation that is getting stuck, and it is serious. It is worrying both in the short and long term, and it is an expression of an economic policy that does not work, despite the record high use of money. Erna Solberg, who was supposed to make us less oil addicts and give us a better priority, has increased oil money usage by over 100 billion. DKK in four years. This budget sets a new record, and yet the government does not have the power to give priority to measures that create activity, measures that get people to work, measures that give us the jobs of the future. The results are clear: government policy has given rise to greater inequality. Differences in Norway should have gone down, they go up. The government's policy has given no more jobs, and the government has been passive in meeting the climate challenges. The tax havens are now up to 25 billion. kr annually, we were told. At the same time, the government is far below its own very concrete promises in hospitals before the elections. They are far below their own proposed long-term defence plan, thus pushing the bill in front of them. In the last budget of the government, we must note that the Emergency Centre is not coming. There's little or nothing happening on climate. Early efforts, referred to by the Minister of Finance as a supporter of education policy, are being made in time and are to be taken into account within a local framework of real zero growth. On the way into the last year of the Right Party government, the picture is clear: the government has a wrong priority and has short-term responses to the major challenges we face. The budget presented today does very little to correct that impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e399	Before I came here today, I was absolutely sure that the opposition, led by the Workers' Party, would be concerned with criticising the government's budget. It happened. But I must say that I am disappointed, however, with the Labour Party's approach to this. It seems to me that it has not happened to the Workers' Party that Norway was hit by the most severe oil price shock of 30 years in 2014. It requires something from us. That doesn't mean we just have to set up some measures and then come back to the situation as it was before the oil price drop. That means we're going to convert our entire economy. This means that many previously perceived jobs as safe in oil and gas-related businesses are now gone. Then those jobs have to be created elsewhere. I must admit that I had expected a somewhat more constructive working party in the debate on how to create more jobs for the future. The government has received a lot of praise for the policy we have pursued. There has been a powerful economic policy, through monetary policy, through other instruments, and not least through the expansionary fiscal policy, which has helped to get us through this recession faster than we would otherwise have been. I'm very pleased with that. But we're not on target. The change in the Norwegian economy is now in the middle of it, will last for several years. It is then important that we give priority to measures to enhance the growth capacity of the economy. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is as powerful opponents of tax cuts now as before, but it is a fact that the Norwegian business community's demand to be able to change, in order to strengthen its competitiveness, is to have a competitive tax system, which makes it profitable to invest in Norway rather than in countries around us. As a result, the government continues to implement the tax reform, and therefore the government will continue to make improvements in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e406	Thank you for the answer to the Minister of Finance. She says jobs have to be created elsewhere. Yeah, that's right, the problem is that it doesn't happen. Conversion does not mean increasing unemployment, conversion means that you actually find work in a new industry, or that the job you have involves new jobs. We've been working on conversion all those years. Now the conversion is going too slowly, that's the problem. The government prioritises measures, mainly tax cuts, which do not work. That's the problem. There is full agreement that it is right to use fiscal policy expansively when things go down. This is why last year the Workers' Party put forward an alternative budget that would have seemed more expansive, given more activity in the economy, despite the fact that the use of money was lower overall. It's this Minister of Finance later that she doesn't fully understand how to use the community's money, actually has a meaning. If we're going to spend money to counteract falling activity, the money actually has to be spent in such a way that activity is created. It doesn't do the government of the day. So I'll use a few words on climate. If Norway cuts greenhouse gas emissions at the same rate as today, it will take several decades before we discharge our commitments in the Paris Agreement. A week ago, we were presented with what was supposed to be the government's package for a green tax change. The effect of that package is highly doubtful. The large climate impact will end with a package that could increase greenhouse gas emissions after it has been through the offices of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. So we've been waiting in suspense about the answer to how we should discharge our obligations, was in other parts of the budget than what was presented on Friday. It didn't. The green shift has been reduced to a section of the government budget for next year, and we can only record that those who have been waiting for the green budget of the time have a relatively bad day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e416	This budget continues the work that the government has been doing in the last budgets, namely creating more jobs that can give us an ever better well-being. And we've given powerful answers to the economic situation we're in. It sounds like you haven't noticed that the shakes in the Norwegian economy because of the fall in oil prices are very special, and we've met them with special instruments. But there's no need to lean back, because the slight rise we see is fragile, it can be vulnerable. That is why the 2017 budget – as we have seen so far – is also a good budget to continue a policy that can contribute to the transition and solve the challenges in the labour market, because there are more jobs and more people in jobs that can maintain well-being in the long term. That is why we continue to present a significant package of measures, which essentially goes to the areas affected by the oil spill. That is why we still rate at a high level in labour market measures. This is why the budget continues to show increased investment and maintenance on road, rail and infrastructure – not only spending more money but also making it more efficient. That is why we still have a strong commitment to knowledge, research and innovation, because it provides the basis for the jobs to come in the long term. And that's why we're still stimulating jobs through tax relief, not just on property taxes, but on corporate taxes and on personal taxation. I am very pleased that this budget is the first step towards reducing the tax on working capital. To my great pleasure, we have recorded that in the tax reform, almost all the parties of the Storting have agreed that this is an important way to do it. I also believe that the criticism of the use of oil money, as I hear Marthinsen say here, falls on stone floor. I think most people have agreed that in the recession we have had, it has been necessary to put this in, and it will still be necessary in the future to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e424	Finally, in the short time available, let me say that I invite our good friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left to constructive discussions around the budget. I see that there are significant challenges this year as before, but we have at the bottom a common value view on how to solve the problems, and I would say that where it is will, it will also be a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e427	There is a lot of evidence that the Norwegian economy is on the right track, but we still have major challenges. It is therefore essential that the government, in its 2017 draft budget, continue to focus on work, activity and change. Now we see that there is growth in the private sector, there is an increase in investment in mainland Norway, and unemployment is decreasing. It is very gratifying that the annual figures of the Central Statistical Office show a record in the number of newly established enterprises both in 2014 and 2015 and far higher than in the previous period. So it's a higher rate now for new businesses being established than it was under the previous government. Especially happy is the fact that growth is greatest in the Western countries that were hit hardest by the oil price drop, both in Rogaland, Hordaland and More and Romesdal. And what does that tell us? Can this happen in the reality described by the Workers' Party? Probably not. It tells us that we have a lot of good entrepreneurs out there who are willing to bet, who are willing to take risks, and who have the skills to start new business. So it's not like this happens with lots of new jobs overnight. It takes time, it's a long process, but it's clear evidence that the policy that's being pursued is working. Economic policy is working. What is the most important thing for those who dare to bet and start up again is the belief in the future, that is the belief that the framework conditions that apply are still valid and predictable. It is clear that a very important part of the framework conditions is also the level of taxation and the tax system we have in Norway. We know that lower taxes are the most effective medicine to create more jobs and more value creation in the long term. That is why the main instrument of the tax reform is precisely to reduce taxes on jobs, and it is very good that the government is now following up what has been agreed in the tax reform and is properly phased in in 2017. Then we know that there will be more in 2018, but there is also a choice in the meantime. We're running out of time. I just want to say something about – perhaps a little surprising – the climate and the environment. We are now setting a world record in Norway for the sale of low-carbon cars. And why do we do that? Well, that's because we've changed the charges, we've reduced the car charges, and we've changed the one-time charge. That's what results are. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government is now proposing to make further changes in 2017, and that is completely in line with the consensus we have established with the Christian People's Party and the Left. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e438	It's a shame to interrupt the Progress Party in environmental installations, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e443	It could be tempting to leave a little extra speaking time to Mr. Limi, so he could continue the good news. But I can also continue on the climate and the environment, and I do not need to remind our partners and the government of the consensus that is the basis for this budget on the climate and the environment as well, namely that we should strengthen the climate agreement and provide significant reductions in climate emissions. It's an expectation the Christian People's Party has for this budget, and I want to say it this way: it's the final sum that counts, that's the sum of all measures, both the positive ones and those that go on tax and tax, that's going to give the final result that we've agreed on. Then it is also important that no one goes to this with absolutes. This is also my challenge to the government parties and the Minister of Finance. Unemployment was an important theme for the Minister of Finance. It is also for the Christian People's Party. The package of measures we have reviewed is being continued, and we are engaged in targeted measures that can also be reversed when the labour market situation improves. However, that there is still a need for action, not least in the South and the West, also shows the figures we are now holding. Against the youth, we must continue to invest in increased apprenticeship grants, which also provide incentives to invest in businesses, and the youth deserves such efforts on our part to get more people to work in the long term. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure freedom of choice in family policy in this budget. Early school effort, the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, we have to note that what we have laid down, namely several teachers from 1 to 4. class, if the budget is as it is now, we can risk cutting, and I can only report that it is not current from our side. That's what help is. There the government has said that it meets the 1 pst. goal. As we read it now – I would like to ask for the Minister of Finance’s confirmation – at least 10 pst., perhaps more, of the means of assistance will be used domestically, and that is a very high figure in the case. In conclusion, there is a lot of oil money in this budget, and I can say that the four parties have not spent more money than the government has done when it comes to a final result in the past. Neither should we this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e456	I think the comments to Hans Olav Syversen indicate that there are many things in this budget that the Christian People's Party believes are going the right way, and there are many things in this budget where I think we have a common value base. Of course, there is more freedom of choice for the family. It's about taking care of what's most important to us all, that's a safe job to go to. It is demanding to facilitate the creation of many new jobs, during the demanding time we are facing in the Norwegian economy. I notice that the Workers' Party thinks it's just pinching their fingers, and then those jobs are ready. Those who are in the real world trying to facilitate these jobs experience every day how challenging it is, with the uncertainty that characterizes the Norwegian economy. In the case of the aid budget, the government has followed up with 1 pst. of GNI. But I want to remind Hans Olav Syversen that last year, with the record influx of refugees, we made significant increases and changes in the aid budget to meet this. Now that we have a more normal situation, the aid budget also has to be marked. But we've delivered the one percent that I experience is important for the Christian People's Party. That, hopefully, means that the Storting can use the time to negotiate other and important matters in the budget, which I am sure the Christian People's Party will be occupied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e466	The fact that we are in a more normal situation suggests that we also have it on the aid section, but we should get back to that. I noticed that the Svein Fleet invited me to cooperate. He also said that there are significant challenges. I think we're going to admit that on the climate side we have it, to get to the goal. As I said, and as the Minister of Finance did not respond to it, it is also important not to go to that work on absolutes, but with a common will to achieve what has been our common goal, namely to strengthen climate reconciliation, and to achieve significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. So I can also say that in this budget we will be concerned with the social distribution. We are pleased with the measures we have taken jointly in the field of child poverty. We are concerned about the district profile, so it will also be a topic, I think, for the debates. It is gratifying that the government has followed up much of the consensus in the tax settlement, both in the case of corporate taxes and in the case of a first reduction in the tax on working capital. It is an important contribution to ensuring Norwegian jobs and new jobs, and that there is a willingness to invest in it from the Norwegian side, from those who sit on the capital. Something both the government and the Christian People's Party can agree on, I think, is that we need both short-term and long-term measures in the transition we're in. We look forward – I hope – to constructive negotiations. Where it's a will, it's usually a way. I hope it applies to all four games.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e479	What we've got now is a new budget for centralization. It is a budget for major social and geographical differences. What is so sad is that, for the fourth time in a row, there are cutters in the targeted regional policy instruments – this time with over half a billion dollars – and that has been done every single time. It's just as if you've forgotten that Norway is more than the Oslo center. As far as fiscal policy is concerned, we are actually cutting fishing deductions, in agricultural deductions. For some reason, the Progress Party now appears to be extremely important to introduce taxes on investment vehicles that go to District Norway to create new jobs around the country. When I read the budget paper today, I almost didn't believe what I saw, because I heard the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance last week boasted that they were going to improve the depreciation rates. But, Minister of Finance, you have to read your entire budget. If you read the next section, it says that they need to tighten down the depreciation policy, that they need to introduce a tax tightening of 1.8 billion. kr by removing boot writes. They're sharpening the taxes by 1.8 billion. NOK 300 million, they're going to make it easier. kr – so it's a That's what's on depreciation. I understand that maybe one should also have had a math test to get into the government, because this is tax tightening, not tax relief. It is tax consolidation of the producing economy – those investing in Norwegian enterprises, those investing in construction machinery, in forest machinery and creating values around the whole of Norway. That's completely wrong policy. Then I began to look at the commuting allowance, because I saw that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister were so pleased that now you had to improve the conditions for the country's commuters. I saw that it was with some ear to improve it, and then I began to calculate for my own part – I live in the bar, with 12 miles to Oslo. Is it higher or lower commuting deductions in 2017 than it was in 2013, when we went out of government? It's lower. The commuting deduction in 2017 will for me personally be NOK 21000, and when we left the government in 2013, it was NOK 27,000. So Norwegian commuters have experienced a tax tightening, and Siv Jensen stands and shouts hurrah. Actually, she should be sorry, because it's a tax boost for the country's commuters, it's not a tax relief. And then there's a show of tolls. Then I can inform the leader of the Progress Party that she will set a new Norwegian record in toll collection in 2017. When we left the government, it was 8 billion. kr in annual toll collection. This year it's $9.5 billion. kr. There will never be more toll than with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance – congratulations! In addition, she is the Minister of Finance who increases fuel taxes. It must be sad to be a finance minister who puts record in toll collection, and who has forgotten most of the people. When you look at the distribution profile, they're going to be over 2 million. kr in income which receives the large tax credits. They have received – I have to find the figure here – over $50,000 in tax cuts during her year as Minister of Finance, while a common person who earns about 300,000–400,000 has received 500–600 kroner in tax cuts. The distribution profile is incorrect, both socially and geographically. Norway is a diverse country, and then we must have a policy for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e492	I thought I would take the opportunity to remind the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum about the Central Party's alternative budget for the current year. The Senterpartie proposed to increase the user charge on petrol by 29 cents and on diesel by 20 cents. They suggested some partial compensation, but at the top of this, the Senterpartie proposed to increase the total taxes in Norway by 17 billion. kr. So the ointment that Battle Violence Vedum just ripped off, he could have spared himself. Under this government, taxes and taxes have fallen, so far by 18 billion. kr, and there are new facilitations in the 2017 budget. So I'll remind Battle Violence Vedum that there are differences in depreciation for vans and trucks and the initial write-offs. The question about startup writing was resolved in connection with the tax message. The size agreed that we would wind them up with effect from 2017 in order to get the right value. In the case of tolls, there is one difference between what the Central Party proposed in its alternative budget and what this government proposes. In its alternative budget, the Senterpartie proposed to compensate for the tightening of fuel charges only for heavy goods vehicles passing the toll stations. This government also proposes to compensate ordinary people passing the toll stations. That's good district policy. Then I figured that the first Battle Force Vedum would criticize when he was going to comment on the budget would be the centralization policy – because that's what the Center Party says, whether that's true or not. The truth is that a competitive tax system, better infrastructure and good framework conditions for business are one of the most important things we can do to ensure a country-wide settlement, ensuring a safe framework for value-creating business in rural areas. It creates security, it creates more well-being, and it creates growth in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e503	The truth is, when you look at the grips made by the government, they have one common denominator, and that's centralization. This is the case in tax policy – it is only to go into the document and see: Where are tax and tax austerities coming from? Where are the cuts coming from? Well, that's centralization. When you look at how to run the public sector – which part of Anders Anundsen's budget has increased most? Yes, it's the Oslo Police Directorate. It's an explosive growth; I don't think we've ever seen more bureaucrats in the police than under Anders Anundsen. And if you go out into town and ask them if they've seen a policeman lately, they answer no. It's all-round that it's been centralization. Then we realize that it is exhausting for the finance minister of the Progress Party, but that is what is the truth. And the big winners we saw in a newspaper release earlier this week – that the 50 richest in Norway have received one billion dollars in tax bills. It's been the main priority of the party for most people, and some of the main sponsors have also been on that list. But it is not those who have voted in favour of the Progress Party, because the Progress Party has forgotten who voted in favour of them: the people who voted in favour of them live around the whole of Norway, and they want to have close-up police, close-up hospitals, a living school and a living community. They say no to the centralization you're doing, and they say no to the tax snipers that many common people now experience, because that's the profile. So I hope we get a demanding budget harvest, because the Norwegian big thing has to see the whole country, we have to use the whole country. We need a new government, and I hope more parties will see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e512	With 15 fresh oil billions in the pot, there are many positive things in the left budget, and we have also worked too long: early work, more health sisters, strengthened schooling and a monthly lift for care – more for those who need it the most. Equally, the research effort and the emergency measures, the longer-term ones, to address the employment crisis and to secure green growth. Then, unfortunately, it is a big ‘but’ that literally hangs in the air: man-made climate problems and temperature rises — the greatest societal challenge of our time. Unfortunately, the government has not taken the matter seriously. Most, if not all, want to adjust to the climate. Business and industry point out that green growth and climate change are future and show the way – a fantastic starting point. Politically, the job is to strengthen this and make it easier and more profitable to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life and in the boardroom. It's not that hard, and it won't make our lives harder, on the contrary. Better collective provision, railway bets, multiple times and bicycle paths are decisive for cities. Reduced cost of biofuels on chargeable hybrids — district electric vehicle — several charging stations and several hydrogen stations are important for districts. One must also set climate requirements in concessions and public supply, create home markets where businesses can test and scale up new technologies to increase competitiveness outside, and, of course, use taxes and charges targeted to make use of the most powerful of all instruments: market forces. A green tax shift means less taxes on what we want more of, work, businesses and environmentally friendly behavior, and more taxes on what we want less of, emissions and pollution. But instead of a green tax shift that results in significant spills, the block of the year's budget agreement, and which the government has promised to follow up, they give priority to fossil vehicle charging – the opposite of a green tax shift and, according to experts, equally leads to emissions. Yesterday, the news came that the Paris Agreement is entering into force faster than expected. The government and the Prime Minister will undoubtedly have their share of the era here. The Paris Agreement was a result of good political craftsmanship and solution-oriented negotiations, not least from the government’s side, and he was about one thing – to get rid of it, not to set ultimatum. The left assumes that the same applies to the forthcoming budgetary negotiations. The budget for 2017 must become a budget that contributes to reduced climate change emissions, in line with the Paris agreement the Prime Minister has worked so well for. Of course, the size cannot adopt a government budget for 2017 which increases greenhouse gas emissions and thus goes backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e527	Let me start by saying that I'm glad that the Left has found many positive things in this budget. I actually figured that out. Let me then spend some time presenting what the government has actually done in this budget in terms of climate. We've added Enova two and a half billion. kr. We have proposed the establishment of a new investment company to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, renewable AS, the heart of the Left. We're proposing to allocate 671 million. kr for the payment of CO 2 compensation in 2017. We are proposing the follow-up of the Green Tax Commission through the green tax shift. We propose giving priority to public transport. A total of 18 billion is proposed for rail use in the State budget. kr. We're proposing 1.1 billion. kr for urban rewards and rewards for urban environmental agreements. We've started the conclusion of urban environmental agreements, and we've put off about 600 million. kr to this in 2017. We'll bet on walking and cycling routes. The means of walking and cycling increased more than 60 pst. in the current year's budget, and we are further strengthening this area for the 2017 budget. We work to cut emissions on Norwegian roads. The one-off fee is further revised in line with the agreement negotiated between the four batches. We're proposing over 100 million. kr to Klimasat. We propose to increase the turnover requirement for biofuels to 7 pst. from 2017. We are betting on climate adaptation and have proposed to increase the appropriations by 55 million. to prevent floods and slips in the South and West. We will continue to focus on CO 2 management. We propose to grant money for studies for a full-scale CO 2 handling facility in Norway. We are continuing a strong commitment to the eco-technology system. We are proposing funds for the purchase of UN-approved climate allowances. We're continuing the investment in climate and forest activity at a level of 2.8 billion. kr. We are strengthening research efforts in the climate field by 70 million. kr, and we are strengthening our commitment to energy research and development by 35 million. kr. I have to say that is a powerful climate budget, in which I hope the Left finds great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e547	Thanks to the Minister of Finance for a good summary of many good actions. Of course, the draft budget contains a lot of good measures, and the four cooperation parties agreed on in previous negotiations. I can continue and underline that there is a draft budget that also shows the importance of a new multi-annual figure in 2013. The red-green humpbone for research and higher education is e.g. Now turned to the bet of the times, precisely because for all four are good public schools, education and more knowledge itself the key to success, both for individuals and for business. And on perhaps the most heartbreaking area of everyone in Norway anno 2016, child poverty, where the red-green talk a lot, but did little, is one going on with a force roof. Differentiated maintenance payment and free core time in kindergarten for all three, four and five-year-olds from low-income families are now in place. But unfortunately, it is not that one can measure how climate-friendly a government budget is, according to how much oil money we spend on individual measures, but according to how much the budget contributes to actual greenhouse gas emission reductions. There is one thing left. Unfortunately, it is not enough rhetoric and good work on the road. ‘Change starts at home’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e556	This government has had amazing sums of money at its disposal. They've increased the oil money usage by 70 pst. in three years. They've spent over 20 billion dollars. kr on tax cuts – and not to ordinary people exactly. It hasn't been on the money. What's left after this use of money? What is this government's kindergarten reform? What is this government's climate policy? How did we become a country that, next year, is clearly going to afford to distribute 160,000 DKK to each of the richest – 0.2 per million – of the population, but who can't afford to fight poverty and reduce differences? On Wednesday we were shown how this could have been done: it is because of the civil cooperation. This week we've seen how, for example, The left is completely trapped by this cooperation. On the left, this cooperation is now so close that two days ago they seriously tried to convince the country that the Progress Party has become the best friend of the climate. It didn't work very well. Fasit arrived today – today, Left Reality met. But the Left is not alone in this kind of denial. Regardless of the fact that the differences in Norway are increasing, that more than 90 000 children now grow up in poverty, completely independent of the fact that the growth of housing prices is out of control and effectively shuts down thousands of thousands of young people out of the possibility of owning their own housing, completely independent of the increased unemployment, regardless of the fact that Western trade unions now feel that their members are effectively forced into temporary and unsafe contracts to have a job at all, regardless of the many cuts in Norwegian environmental efforts and completely independent, not least from the fact that greenhouse gas emissions are now rising and not falling, the government insists on their policy functioning. They cannot show how many jobs their billion-dollar budget has provided in the wealth tax. It's not that strange, because it doesn't work, but in the spirit of denial, the government has decided it works. They cannot show that disabled dependants have become magically healthy and got a job as a result of the increasingly hard cuts that continue in this budget, in the children's supplement. In the spirit of denial, you've decided to recover from poverty. They cannot refer to any cut in Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions at all. On the contrary, they have cancelled Norway’s climate targets for 2020. Nevertheless, the government has decided that the boisterous investment in climate will work – blow in the scientists, blow in real life, relax, Left, this is probably going well. In the real world, in the world all of us are in, tax cuts do not work in response to all the world's problems. In the real world, the climate crisis must be met with concrete measures. Not doing that is a choice. I think, given that the government parties signed the agreement with the partners last year, that the government's choice now seems to be a rejection request.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e569	I'm not quite sure where to start. It is at least that creating well-being is not just about the level of taxation we have in the country. It's about how we're able to bring down the health cows. It's about how we get better teachers through the continuing training effort of the government. It's about spending money on drugs and mental health. In the case of a housing market out of control, Valen might be able to take a small phone to his party traps in Oslo. If they are speeded up by regulatory policies and facilitate faster development, the housing market will also be in a better balance. When more people want to live in Oslo than there are dwellings available, prices go up. There's an SV in charge of Oslo. It may be time to do something about regulation policy instead of saying that the answer to this is to increase the tax on people's homes. There won't be any more homes. It'll be more expensive to live. So Valen calls the government's bet on climate for a boisterous bet on climate. I think that's something that hangs again as the feeling an SV had after sitting for eight years in a red-green government. The truth is that during this government we are making significant investments in the climate, and I can only refer to the suggestion that I just had. So I am not surprised that Valen still believes that property taxes are good. Property tax is a special tax on Norwegian ownership in Norway. I do not understand why it should be more expensive to be the Norwegian owner of an enterprise in Norway than a foreign owner of an enterprise in Norway. We know that, especially in bad times, we are dealing with Norwegian owners in Norwegian companies because they take much more account of local challenges in the local environment, such as corner stone holdings in many places. That is why it is important that we provide a competitive tax system, and therefore this government will continue to reduce the wealth tax even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e580	There we have it again – that belief in the government that it is the key words that come with, which are important, and not the policy that leads, that it is the speech points that are important, and not the facts, not the research, not the knowledge-based policy. In the real world, it is always more profitable in Norway to invest in overpriced rentals here in Oslo than to invest in new jobs in the West. It says an almost total economy, which everyone recommends moving taxes from income to property, but we're going to trust that Siv Jensen knows best. Her ideology is more right than all of our comprehensive knowledge of economics. In the real world, it is that one cannot solve the man-made climate change without actually cutting CO 2 emissions. But Siv Jensen knows best, because she's been delivering the greenest state budget of all time. She says it, so that must be true. In the real world, it's that you don't get to fight differences and injustice without being willing to spend the big money on it. Good health is about mastering, said the Minister of Finance in his speech. We have this from a finance minister who has given over 360 of the country's most vulnerable families a cut of $30,000 a year on average, and they are to be extended by next year's budget. One shall speak from a position of fully-declared privilege to believe that being thrown into poverty because of illness and disability leads to more mastery. This is the government's problem. They are, as I said, in a different reality from that country's destitute, poor country, the country's unemployed. They are in a different reality than in the reality where one actually has to act to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. They are different from the people most affected by government policies. The location of the government is probably a good place to be. It's just asking who the government can afford, who they're actually spending money on, that's the ones that benefit from even more tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e596	I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance warmly on a government budget at the heart of the Minister of Finance. She is also the only person in this world I congratulate on this budget, for this budget is a betrayal of future generations. When President Obama talks about the climate crisis, he talks about an existing crisis. When Merkel talks about the climate crisis, she talks about a threat to humanity's existence. When the government of Solberg and Finance Minister Jensen present the 2016 budget the day after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, they present a budget that has a long-term impact, according to the National Budget, that it will cut 2.1 pst. of Norwegian emissions – 2,1 pst. - In 2030. I thought we were going to cut 40 pst. And in the case of road traffic, where we've had a discussion about some ear's additions to the petrol and diesel tax, this adds the state budget and the national budget to 7 pst. increasing emissions in 2030, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Such a budget is a budget that will lead to the climate crisis. If other countries budget in this way, the welfare threats, the security threats and the financial costs for our children, for those who come after us, become astronomical and totally unacceptable. That is the great framework for this budget. The small framework is that such a budget is to throw away a huge potential for real change, for real innovation, for sustainable jobs in Norway, because we know that business will have clear goals, people want to change – everyone wants to contribute to the green shift. This budget was the fourth and last opportunity for the Minister of Finance to cancel the green shift, and she has used all four options. A definition of stupidity and madness is to do the same thing over and over and over and believe that it will give a completely different result than it has done before. This is a budget that one government after another has presented, year in and year out. We know what the result is. Greenhouse gas emissions do not decrease. Oil dependence continues, and we don't create the sustainable society that everyone, when they're settled enough, says they want to enter. This is a budget that the Storting has a heavy responsibility to change, and it's a budget that the Left and Christian People's Party really has a challenge to change. [[President clubs]] If I had been Trine Skei Grande or Knut Arild Hareide, whom I am fortunately not, I would have looked around for new partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e610	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e615	I would advise the representative Hansson to spend a little more time reading the state budget before he takes the verdict we just heard. The projections contained in the budget are based on historical figures – not on the measures currently proposed, which will help us to achieve the targets more quickly by 2030. That's an essential prerequisite for reading the budget paper, and I hope that Rasmus Hansson takes the time to do that. Then I understand that he would like this to be my last opportunity and the government's last opportunity to present a government budget. It is the voters who will decide for the harvest, not Rasmus Hansson. My impression is that the voters probably agree a little more with a course in climate and environmental policy that includes business, which includes ordinary people, because they have to be part of this. Then we have to do it at a pace that allows the companies to change. We have to do it at a pace that makes it possible for our citizens to stick with this. That's why the government has said we have to do a little at a time to meet the challenges we're facing. With regard to the oil dependence that I hear Hansson is so concerned about, the Greens have suggested that the Greens should close all the oil taps as quickly as possible. It would be a serious backsliding for Norwegian business. Many thousands of people have their daily activities in this industry, an industry that makes great contributions to the Norwegian economy, which helps to safeguard the well-being of all of us, and an industry that is going to be part of our industrial policy for decades to come. But it's going to give less impulses than we've expected. That's why the government is so clear that the transformation we're about to undergo has to be green. More attention needs to be paid to development in other industries. It facilitates the government, but at the same time we recognise the value and importance of the values created in oil and gas-related business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e624	What will be a really big problem for Norwegian business is whether the government continues a policy that requires all investments for real change in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to occur in other countries. Are we going to expand the electricity network in Poland so that they can bring down the emissions from their car traffic? Are we going to build on alternative and environmentally friendly technology in other countries so that they can reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, so that we do not cut road traffic and the oil sector? It's a bad business policy. It is to deprive Norwegian business of the enormous opportunity and necessity of being a leader in sustainable markets. And then it's striking that once again there is one black figure in the state budget and the national budget, and there are numbers saying that emissions are almost not going down, and that they are going up in some areas, while the figures for 2020, which we all await with great tension – how much the government intends to cut in 2020 and 2017 – are not there. They're gone. We are sitting in a city that has just presented a detailed climate budget and shown how it can be done. So the government chooses the day after the Paris Agreement is signed, to do the opposite: not to provide figures for how much you intend to cut. You keep saying: cut significantly, cut a lot, this is going to work. But for some remarkable reason, it is impossible for the government to figure out the size of these emissions. Sorry, President, it may be unparliamentary to say ‘dirty’. But we know that in the non-quota sector, the government should cut 800,000 tonnes. Does it? Nothing indicates that only in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e631	An alternative to ‘dry’ may be ‘whole’. Then we open the door for the Minister of Finance to get a final comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e638	Let me first thank the Stortinget for the preliminary comments on the 2017 state budget. So this is a budget that is well adapted to the challenges we are facing. It's a budget that primarily facilitates work and activity and conversion in the Norwegian economy when we need it the most, but at the same time has found room for important efforts. It is an offensive climate budget, which I think you should study in more detail before you make a final judgment. It is a budget that creates more security in the everyday lives of ordinary people through the efforts being made in the health and care sector, in the police sector, in the defence sector – to name a few – and we continue to step up to both transport, research, innovation and key tools to transform business. We continue to phase in the tax reform. Yes, we deliver in the areas the government announced that we should do. That is why it is a predictable budget, which gives confidence in business that we get through this difficult transition for the Norwegian economy, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e647	So we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2017 be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-06.ana.ud95e701	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
