ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e26	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e29	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Micaelsen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Christian Tynning Bjørnø and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the gradual introduction of an hour's physical activity in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e34	The representative, Mrs Skei Grande, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e37	On behalf of the representative Iselin Nybø and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to set up a Data Protection Commission for the Justice sector. And on behalf of the representative André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to propose new and more accurate methods for the ageing of children seeking asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e44	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that, at the end of the meeting, after regular Question Time, there will be a call for a referendum for the Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e58	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Anders Anundsen, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Per Sandberg will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e65	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: The defence capacity of Norway deteriorated from 2014 to 2015. Unfortunately, the head of defence could conclude in his annual report. There was something entirely different today's Minister of Defense promised before the elections: 'In total, our proposals will provide the defence with a greater operational capability than the government's proposal,' said Eriksen Soreide before the elections, when she presented the Hierre's long-term plan for the period 2013–2016. It was also going to increase activity, we heard. The right order was so good, and I quote the Minister of Defense from the time she sat on the Stortinget: it was to be ‘flightd more, sailed more and practiced more’. The reality is unfortunately the opposite: the marine defense sailed less in 2015 than what was planned. It was a minus of 115 sailing days. The Air Force practiced less in 2015, and the Army trained less in 2015 than in 2014. Many thought that the Minister of Defense would solve the problem of more money, as she had promised. Instead, investigations, group of experts, long processes came about the chief of defence's professional military council, and never before has a government spent longer time on a long-term plan. Through numerous and lengthy investigations and criticisms of her predecessors, the Minister of Defense is trying to get the attention away from her failure to deliver. A lot was investigated, long, thorough and good. My question is about a concrete promise the Minister of Defence came along. She said she wanted a massive increase in rural military capability if she became Minister of Defense. My question is, what has the Minister of Defense done to live up to the promise of a massive increase in our country military capability?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e78	It is right, as Huitfeldt's representative says, that the head of defence, when he presented his annual report, pointed out some things that had made the operational capability in some areas weaker. One of the most important things he pointed out was the crack formations we had on the F-16 planes. This meant that they had to be put on the ground and repaired. We have experienced two rounds of crack formations on F-16. It's an ageing aircraft, and it's also a good picture of why we now depend on buying new planes and looking forward to them. I don't think Huitfeldt's representative read or listened to the entire defense chief's reasoning. What he said was: ‘The parts of the Defence that are used continuously in operations and operations at home and abroad are, in some cases, highly qualified and deliverable. However, ageing materials and wear provide high spare part and maintenance costs, challenging the ability to produce operational capability.» We've been open all along. It's one of the biggest challenges in Defence today: the great aftermath. I have stressed this – and the Prime Minister last week – that not only because of the last government, but governments of different colors and composition over the last 20–25 years, who have not prioritised it high enough. Now we're giving a significant increase in the budgets, and we've strengthened both the Maritime Defense, the Army, the Air Force, the HV and the Intelligence Service beyond what was foreseen in the long-term plan, because there it was as well-known not provided that the Defense would get one fresh crown. We've done something about that. Nevertheless, many of the challenges will take time to deal with, and that is why, in the new long-term plan, we will primarily be investing in operations, making what we have, working and strengthening preparedness stocks. This is also one of the reasons why we have prioritised the maintenance of the Naval Defence vessel with more than 300 million. kr in 2016, precisely because it is absolutely necessary for us to be able to produce operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e92	All the challenges were known to the Minister of Defence before the elections, but she did not refuse to make high promises of increased operational capability. I want to repeat my question, because I got absolutely no answer to that. She said that with Right Defense it will mean a massive increase in country military capability. It's not small things! So I repeat my question: what has the Minister of Defense done with the promise of a massive increase in country military capabilities? Are there any further investigations to be carried out? What is concrete delivery?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e97	I will first correct one point that Huitfeldt's representative raised, namely that I should have been familiar with all the challenges in advance. Yes, we have pointed out shortcomings and challenges over a long time, but the picture was even worse than we actually thought, and therefore we have spent the necessary time going into all the assessments that have to be made. We're looking at the defence as a whole, not just piecely and divided, as has been done in the previous long-term plans, and that means that the analyses we're now basing on, both in terms of long-term economic sustainability, operational capacity, operation and investment, are going to be overdue. As far as the country's military capabilities are concerned, we have assumed that precisely because the escalation in Afghanistan went faster than planned, we were able to transfer more of the funds faster to the Army and to the Home Office. It has been important to maintain the level of activity, and it is also done in 2016; the high level of activity in the Army and the Home Office is maintained in 2016. In addition, I think it is important to stress that when we now go into the discussion after a new long-term plan has been presented, we need to look at the defence as a whole, and look at how the individual parts fit well together, in order to provide the best operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e104	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e107	It was not just in some areas that the head of defence pointed out shortcomings in his 2015 report. Among other things, he said: that the Naval Defense sailed less in 2015 than in 2014, the Air Force exercised less in 2015 than in 2014, and the Army exercised less in 2015 than in 2014. It's almost four years since we had a long and - I'll say - intense debate here on the long-term plan of defence. The Minister of Defence, who was then the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee, went very high. If I am not mistaken, she said something such as that there is a fundamental difference initially on how to deal with the defence's further business, and that the Right has a willingness to pay. Now we can let history be history and focus on the present situation. Will there be more flight in 2016, more sailing and more practice, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e116	I understand that the representative Sverre Myrli will let history be history, for the truth of the eight years of his party put with government power, is that the defense together for the eight years was to be met by 800 million. kroner, and I remind you that in the 2016 budget we have increased it by 9.4 pst. It's been a change of pace. We've started the absolutely necessary reverse operation. This is not only about appropriations each year, it is also about long-term economic sustainability, which has been absent in the previous long-term plans. But yes, when it comes to the issue of 2016, we have both given money and started more sailing because, among other things, we did. station a submarine on Ramsund. We're flying more with our Orion planes and flying longer paces -- we've also funded that. We have started to maintain maritime defence vessels just to enable them to carry out their maintained activity, and not least, as the head of defence also said when he presented his annual report, we have strengthened the sailing in the north by 40 p.m. in 2015. It's important, and these are things that have to go on in order for us to have the right operational ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e123	Astrid Aarhus Byrknes - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e126	A lot of people are waiting on the long-term plan and have expectations for him. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that there is a balance between maritime, air and land power. Then there's to be more interaction. After all, the various defence sectors are contributing to our defence, so that both the army and the protection of our homes must interact. Home security plays an important role. They include: object security, and they have local knowledge, both in readiness, in crisis and in war. There is concern about how resources and resources should be distributed in the future. So if we look forward a little bit, how does the Minister of Defense think that this balance should be maintained, and what role does the Minister of Defence think that the Home Security should play in future defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e134	The representative of Aarhus Byrknes is absolutely right that there must be a balance in the defense. Now it's like this in Defense that the balance isn't always about a millimetre balance between the defenses, it's about a balance that gives the best operational ability in the end. In this picture, the Home Office also plays an important role. That's one of the reasons we got an investment project last year on new field cars for the Home Protection Agency to approx. 520 million. kr. It is a necessary modernisation. In these days, the Home Guards are getting new weapons, and it's also an important part of equipping and modernizing Home Protection. An additional emphasis has also been placed on the input strengths by the government in order to increase the training of selected forces in the effort forces. It's also because they're a support for civil society, not just to solve military tasks. They represent, among other things: important support to the police in given situations. So the Home Guard is an important part of a defence structure in Norway. It will continue to be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e143	Jenny Følling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e146	The Prime Minister presented defence policy as a key element of his national meeting. It gave many hopes that the government would present a new long-term defence plan with a significant strengthening of Norway’s defence capabilities. In recent times, the same number of people have lost faith in this. On Thursday 21 April, today's Business could reveal that one did not even plan to meet the Defence Manager's recommendations for a sober minimum defense, but on the contrary, plan to put down the 2nd Battalion at Skold and through this, liquidate Norway's last remaining brigade. Lieutenant Colonel and Chief of Trust in Norway's Officers' Federation Bjørn Tore Woll reacted strongly to this, and encouraged popular reaction. He summarizes the problem in a clear way in an interview with the NRK on Thursday 21 April: "It looks like we're going to have a defense without people," he said. How does the Council of State think that one can maintain a shrewd country power and defense and, as she promised, a massive increase in rural militarism?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e151	Of course, I can't comment on speculation, but as always with speculation, I think those who read them, do the wise thing to breathe through the nose sometimes and wait for the long-term plan to come, and then you'll see the whole and the result there. The government has always been clear that there is a need to do at least three things in the new long-term plan. One is that we're going to spend the money the defense has, in the most reasonable way possible. This means, for example: the need to shift resources from the operation of many bases to the operational capability – to practice, fly and sail, as we are now doing. The second is that we must create a sustainable defence economy over time. It doesn't help to make big investments in the short term if you can't afford to run in the long run, and that's the history of defence planning in the last 25 years. The third is that the defence capacity, and therefore the defence budgets as well, must be considerably strengthened. We're going to spend the money well and more efficiently, but we're going to spend a lot of money on the defense. There is a need for — after many years when that priority has not been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e158	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e161	The left, like many here, is concerned about the position of the Army and the Home Office, and looks forward with anticipation to the long-term plan, where there must be some major strategic choices and priorities. Now I am so pleased that the Minister of Defense says that she should be investing in operations in the years to come, but, as she said, in the role of the Army, it has been freed by the fact that there is a reduction in activity faster in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, there are expectations that we will stay longer in Afghanistan, we have new assignments in Iraq, we have the last in Jordan. Because of the situation in Ukraine, NATO is expecting more participation in Europe, and we need presence in the north. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: does she see any need to strengthen the Army and the Home Office, and how can we do so, not in the long term, but in the short term? Because that's now you need the increased ability -- not just think about what we need in eight and ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e166	That is a very good and meaningful question from the representative Elvesuen. The new tasks that we have undertaken internationally, both in Iraq and now in Jordan, are being further financed, so it does not go beyond the operational budgets of the defence sectors in any way. Then we have also had significant contributions from the Army, particularly in the sedative measures we are implementing in NATO, and it has been important operational for us, but also important for the alliance solidarity in NATO. One of the most important things I think we can do in the short term is rebuilding emergency stocks and operations. It means everything from ammunition storage to other preparedness, which it's been eating very hard for many years. It has been partly because the security policy situation has been able to allow it, but it has also been a balancing item when money is needed for other things. That means that when we add the long-term plan, the short-term perspective is also very important to us, and what we're going to spend on in the first few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e175	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e178	Since the introduction of the long-term system, the long-term plan has been submitted to Stortinget in time for him to be treated before the summer. The reason why this is important is that it can then be brought into effect from the following year, and the final result of the examination may be taken into account in the budget adopted for the following year. If not completed before summer, full implementation may be delayed for one year. The more conspiratory could then suspect – and I stress that I am not one of them – that a push of an invoice would take place until 2018, the year after the election. It is such that this is one of the biggest cases the Stortinget will have to deal with in our – if not the largest – so it takes good time for defensive treatment. Can the Minister of Defence assure us that she will present the long-term plan so that there is ample time for defence proceedings and decisions before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e185	As the representative, Mr Solhjell, correctly points out: this is perhaps the biggest issue we are presenting, at least to the Ministry of Defence. It also means that a lot of work is required on it. We have seen the whole defence sector in a way that has not been done in previous long-term plans. It takes a lot of time. We have been concerned that it is more important to present a good and well-worked long-term plan than that it necessarily needs to be submitted early enough for it to be dealt with in the spring session. The reason why I say that is the following: When we present a long-term plan in the spring session, of course, it is well synchronised with the budgetary processes. All the measures we propose in the long-term plan have been taken into account in the budget. The budget shall normally be adopted in November/December with effect from 1 January of the following year. It's going to happen this time as well. The long-term plan will take effect from 1 January 2017, just as planned. The important thing for us has been that when these processes are well synchronised, it is also the main guarantee that we take into account that what we present in the long-term plan will be financed from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e192	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e196	We write May month, and the tradition faith is Russian times well in progress. And even though you see a lot of tired faces for the time being, there's still a week left by the Russians. For most people, rushing time is fun, fun – a lot of fun that happens – but unfortunately it is not for everyone. Last year it was the first time that Kripos categorized rape reports related to Russian times. It resulted in eleven reviews in the Russetida itself and some in retrospect. Kripos says that half of these limits to assaults, and of the eleven rapes, there were three who had more than one perpetrator. In addition to the eleven rapes, we know that there's great darkness. Too many people experience unpleasant episodes, assaults or rapes during their days. It doesn't just ruin the Russian celebration, it destroys and can have serious consequences for the rest of your life. Also this year we received a message about Russians who have been raped. About 1,000 rapes are reported every year. As mentioned above, there is great darkness. For many, it's a big step to report. The investigation can be an unpleasant and difficult – and perhaps new – burden on the victims. Therefore, it is very serious that the percentage of clarification in the last few years is only 18–25, i.e. approximately 80 pst. of all the reports of rape. This allows perpetrators to go free and repeat the action, resulting in an additional burden on victims. My question goes to the Minister of Justice. I wonder what he's doing to make sure that the police are competent, have enough resources and prioritize the investigation of rapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e207	Let me first thank the representative Robstad for addressing a very serious and very important issue. As Ropstad himself initiates, we are now in a month when too many young lives are destroyed because of rape. One is that the lives of the victims get the enormous burden, but also the perpetrator destroys his life. Therefore, it has been important in this context to be very clear on what we can do for prevention. The police have, among others: through Kripos’ campaign ‘kernel’, attended many of the Russian events, in many of the places where Russians are gathered, to help create good and proper attitudes in the relationship between Russians. It is totally unacceptable that almost every May we experience that Russians are ruining each other's lives by the rape of women, especially women. That is why I have been concerned that we should ensure the necessary preventive action. The police have made a good effort this year. Nevertheless, we see that these abuses happen. Then it is important that the victims feel that when they report this, they are accepted in a proper way. Unfortunately, the notification threshold is very high, and we have to have an auxiliary device outside that helps to get more people in a review. We are therefore now taking a number of measures through the close police reform, where we need to strengthen the professional environment in order to ensure better research capacity and quality. We have the investigation promise, where this is one of the issues that is being raised. We are now also going through victim care to ensure that those who take the step of reporting are not left standing alone through a tough and difficult process, which does not end with the notification but will continue through judicial and appeal proceedings. That's why it's important, I think, to look at this in an overall perspective, where one uses whole-scale tools to reduce this problem as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e220	Thanks for the answer. Of course, I fully agree that it is important to think broadly. Prevention is the most important thing to avoid rape, but at the same time we need to do more with the rate of accommodation. The Council of State referred to as ‘Cores’. The Russian runs his own projects, and if you look carefully at the Russian's trousers, you see that it says 'No is no', to tell you that sex should be voluntary. And if it's not voluntary, it's rape. ‘No is no’ on the Russian pants is clear, but the same cannot really be said about the actual violent text of the penal code. We have received criticism internationally, but not least from some Norwegian organisations. Amnesty runs a very clear campaign because they want it to be concrete in the legal text that lack of consent should also be part of the definition of what rape is. So my question is, what does the Council of State think about sharpening the legal text to give a better signal effect, that also lack of consent should be part of the paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e231	Let me first search the question of investigation and clarification, because these are issues that are very often difficult to solve. Often there have been only two present, and sometimes the reports occur so late that it is difficult to secure technical tracks. Therefore, it is important in these situations that a person be notified as soon as possible. It is also a bit related to the next part of the question, namely whether one of the law should have a separate provision that says that one should have a specific consent. It creates some challenging legal issues that are very complex. In such situations, however, most acts will be affected by the criminal law, but not by the law of violence. In the department we have, among other things: Following Amnesty International's input, we went through the consequences and possibilities of changing the law on rape – because on the other hand, we do not have to face a situation where we impose the reverse burden of proof. It is also a fundamental and fundamental principle of Norwegian criminal law. So it's a complicated question that we've addressed, but we haven't concluded that we're proposing to change the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e240	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e243	The Russian has launched the ‘No is no’ action itself, and at the Russian events there is now more watchkeeping, more lighting, separate toilets with their own watchkeeping, we can read. However, the fight against rape must take place in many arenas, affecting many sectors. The anti-violence action plan expired in 2014. A plan is not important in itself, but a plan puts something in focus, and a plan allocates responsibility. My simple question to the Council of State is: When does a plan against the fight against rape come – not for the sake of the plan, but precisely to combat rape? Or, as the Council of State said to the representative, Ropstad: we have to look at it comprehensively, in the overall perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e252	I fully agree with the questioner that it is not an action plan that is the most important, it is the measures that are actually being implemented, and that one is able to coordinate that effort as well as possible. In the context of the near-police reform, we strengthen the competence of the police, we increase the quality of the work done by the police, and we are now working to go through the whole care of the victims to draw it into the work done by the police, so that one does not get into a situation where one after having delivered the report remains standing entirely alone in the fight, which will then be very tough for the victim. At the same time, there is cooperation across different departments with different responsibilities in this area, so that we can ensure effective action against rape is as good as possible. I cannot come to any date or any conclusion as to when a possible new action plan against rape will see the light of day, but there is a way to coordinate action, to allocate responsibilities clearly, and it is a natural instrument to consider to ensure that the fight against rape continues at the same high pace as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e261	Lise Wiik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e264	The Council of State is well aware of the importance of securing sufficient resources for the police in the field of investigation and also points to the importance of prevention measures. I am very pleased with that. Nevertheless, we know that there are major shortcomings in the custody of the raped person. Reception for the raped must be local in the municipalities, and we know that the municipal economy is tight – very tight in most municipalities. This means that rape reception is too low a priority. So my question to the Council of State is this: how will the Council of State provide enough funds to the municipalities so that it is possible to prioritize the reception of rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e271	I fully agree that the reception of rape is very important, and that it is an important offer for those who have been raped. Local authorities will then have to give priority to the provision of municipal services within the framework they receive at all times, but there are also a number of grant schemes to help provide a good level of provision for victims of rape. I think the most important effort I can make to help rape victims get the best follow-up possible is to better coordinate victim care with the work the police are doing. An example of this is the so-called Trondheim model, where one has a good and close cooperation with the municipality and has co-located the follow-up and support work for victims of violence, including for victims of rape, so that after a report, a person is almost led down to the aid device and support device that can help him to progress in life and through the heavy hour of an investigation and a legal case, perhaps in several ways. So I think that's where I'm going to focus my efforts on giving the most concrete offer to victims of violence and rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e278	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e282	Citizens in this country have a huge expectation of the police in terms of rape cases, both in terms of prevention and, not least, in terms of investigation and custody. We saw this quite clearly when a waitress in Gjesdal was at least produced a little unlucky as he recommended that all Russian girls wear bicycle pants during the Russian carriage. Then it becomes quite clear in the media that the audience expects something quite different from the police than that it should be the advice the police give to the Russian. Now it is certainly not that the gentleman believes that you have bicycle pants on under the Russian suit, so you are doing well, and then you have done what you need to do. But the audience was clearly not satisfied with that statement. My question is, do we have sufficient training in gender-based crime and sexualized violence at the Police College, so that our policemen are equipped to take care of the serious issues involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e291	I think that's a very good question. There has been a lot of progress in the development of curricula at the Police College in recent years, also to raise awareness of new officials and women in the field of sexualized violence. I think the most important job we're doing now, among other things. In the context of the near-police reform, it is to contribute to the benefit not only of new students but also to the benefit of the whole sector. I think, unfortunately, that it is still necessary to have concrete training, concrete leadership focus and concrete follow-up to these matters in a way that is different from what you have been used to in the police. Unfortunately, there are often women in the police who have been most concerned with sexualized violence. We have to reverse that tradition completely. Everyone in the police must be as concerned about this as the Council of State is, as the police director is, and as the police are. I am absolutely convinced that it will help us to get better advice than what was given by this gentleman, and I will distance myself from all attempts – regardless of whether this may be so or not – to make the victim responsible for a rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e298	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e301	Over half of the girls in this country experience sexual harassment, that is, unwanted attention around sex, body and sexuality. We know that one in ten is being raped. It is heavy experience to carry with it for the women of the country. We also know that several cases of sexual harassment and rape are reported in the Russian era, and every year we see that the police around are out there asking Russians not to be too full and to take responsibility for themselves. This year it has peaked with advice to wear bicycle pants during the Russian era. I wonder how the Council of State believes that sexual harassment and rape can be combated and prevented during youth and during Russian times in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e308	Fortunately, I believe that much good work is done, not least by the Russian himself, in terms of prevention. I think that's where the main effort needs to be corrected. One is totally dependent on ensuring the necessary respect between Russians, between people regardless of gender, and that we are quite clear that making the victim responsible for a rape so that the rape can happen is not acceptable. If rape is to be prevented to the greatest extent possible, a number of preventive measures are to be taken. I have been interested in some of them in my previous answers. In addition, we must have effective criminal liability to effectively discharge those who commit these rapes. Here's a potential for improvement, which I've also had in terms of research, quality and follow-up. There are too few of these cases that end up with clarification and judgment, and I think one of the most important things we do now to improve this is – in addition to the investigation promise – the work on the near-police reform, which means that a few dedicated investigators with the necessary skills to follow up this. And then I have great faith that victim care will also be preventive. The fact that one contributes to a good example of police clearance and follow-up will hopefully help to reduce the number of victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e313	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e316	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. It is imperative for the police to carry out a major police reform while maintaining good police work. The centre party wanted a different police reform than the reform that was agreed on, because we think it will allow for much more centralisation than the large majority will admit. Now more police districts are notifying that they have too few resources, and some of them are giving up profit-criminalism because they don't have all the jobs. We also get to the right that it goes beyond the follow-up of more serious crime and the prevention work. The centre party has previously challenged this issue and warned of possible problems in the implementation phase of the reform. I think there is every reason to doubt whether the government has provided enough room for police districts to provide good enough services to the people, while at the same time implementing the police reform, for one question is: if the problems in the police districts have nothing to do with the police reform, what is the cause? The party of progress has stood out as a guarantor that the police would get sufficient resources, choose to notice before they came into government. It may seem that the government and the Council of State have not been prepared for how much it will be necessary to carry out such a reform, and how much extra it will take for the police to be able to keep up with good service production in the process. My question is: has there been a greater problem than the government in the implementation phase of the police reform, or has the Council of State not ensured that the police districts have enough resources to cope with this phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e329	The premise on the question from the representative Klinge is quite wrong. Firstly, we are now in an implementation phase. She has a very important point, namely that carrying out a major reorganization, in parallel with providing good services, is very demanding. However, there is nothing to suggest today that the implementation of the near-police reform is at the expense of the problem-solving process. After the government change, the police have added more than 3 billion. kr. This is a huge effort on the part of the Norwegian police. There are more than a thousand new police posts, including the 2016 budget. There are more than a hundred new police lawyers on the payroll than they were on the government shift. There are 16 new state lawyers, i.e. a massive effort and a massive commitment to Norwegian police, and there are funds of their own to implement the reform. That's also how you'll never get into a situation where a police officer can solve 100 pst. by all tasks and clarify and clarify all offences. I think the representative Klinge and I agree on that. The question is how to arm the police in the future to do that job as best as possible, with the resources that are available at all times. Then I am amazed that the Central Party does not want a near-police reform that is just supposed to release that force out in the police districts, near where people live, while at the same time getting a police force with more competence and more resources to deal with more serious and fundamental crime. The implementation of the near-police reform is quite well on track, but it is going to be challenging. This is not a reform that implements itself. We have recently received a draft master plan for the implementation of the reform of the Police Directorate, with which we are now working further, in order to have an overall framework and plan for implementation, inclusion and follow-up of all the very good political objectives that a broad majority in the UK is behind. I do not share the concern of the representative, Mr Klinge. What I would be concerned about was if we hadn't now implemented the near-police reform and had thought that the police as they are today are well organized, because it isn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e342	The government called the police reform a near-police reform and claimed that she would not act as a centralist. It goes without saying that cutting from 27 to 12 police districts is a bit centralizing. In the future, there will be a lot of issues about the possible merger of the Länsmannskontoret and likeins about bringing together functions in the police in fewer units. In matters relating to the location of state jobs, we should, of course, have political governance to ensure that state jobs are spread throughout the country. In the case of localisation of police officers, the government clearly showed that they prefer shade away from this theme. Now we have a new case on the location of the payroll and accounting unit in the police department. POD uses here the criterion that effectively excludes all regions other than the Oslo region from being allocated to these workplaces. Why does the Council of State not ensure that the location of functions in the police is conducive to regional development and to improving the balance of the labour market around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e351	I just have to comment on the starting point for the near-police reform. The most important thing for people is that the police come when they need it. There's no standby in an empty janitor's office. Putting down a place of employment that has a staff member present three times a week, between 2 p.m. 10 a.m. 14 a.m. or 4 p.m. 10 a.m. 15, doesn't give a local standby, it doesn't give a local police officer. And if one sees what the majority of the population, the broad majority, has come about in terms of strengthening the local police through the near police reform, then there are measures following measures to compensate for what is today a far more distant police force than what we should have. With regard to the location of the coordinated remuneration and accounting department, which the representative addresses, it has now been sent to the hearing. The Police Directorate will receive a hearing response within the consultation period and a decision will then be taken. Of course, the national guidelines for the location of jobs will also be important, including for the government, when that decision is finally taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e358	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e362	We probably remember all of the Council's showcasing video from the last election campaign, where the Council of State presented its image of the justice sector. There are many policemen out there who are not as satisfied as the Council of State with the situation in the police. The only police car after 405,000 km has collapsed at the county office in Nesna, Northernland. The mariner must ride, go or use a private car in the service. We didn't see Mr. Hogne Rosø in his Nesna or his Volvo in the Council's propaganda video. Will the Council of State see to it that the gentleman gets a new car, or is it not that the police in the districts have cars working, part of a police stationed for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e369	I almost want to say that it was a lice fit, because it is not the Minister of Justice who buys police cars for the lenner in Nesna. It is the chief of police who is responsible for ensuring that the equipment is sufficient in relation to the service to be provided in the district for which the chief of police is responsible. We are responsible for laying down the framework conditions for the police to do their job as well as possible. It's been added 3 billion. kr more since the government change, since the representative Pollestad's party was in government – 3 billion. kr more. There are over a thousand new police posts, there are a hundred more lawyers, so there is a stake in the Norwegian police that we haven't seen the husband in a very long time. So it will still be that there will be parts of Police Norway that have old cars, but at the same time there are many others who now get new cars, who buy new cars, who make investments in equipment. So I guess I can say it so that I'm absolutely sure that the police officer like the policeman in Nesna corresponds to, focuses on having a safe equipment park. It's actually the police chief's responsibility to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e374	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e377	The police reform was necessary, and it provides the opportunity to make important efforts for the future, so that a strong and close police force across the country. It also includes good trade unions throughout the country. However, the Police Directorate argues that there is too high a risk of low access to locally-placed workers with the necessary skills, such as: Florø – in the location of police services. I want to give an example from my own state when it applies to Diffi at Leikanger and the Lottery Authority in Førde. They recruit very well, and it shows that when it comes to localization, we have to think widely, and think that strong trade unions can be built many places in the country. Why does the Council of State not require POD to see the possibilities throughout the country when new services are to be provided with new offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e384	So let's do that. The national guidelines for the location of workplaces shall be followed and they shall also be followed up by the Directorate of Police. I fully agree with the representative Heggø that it is necessary to look at all of Norway when you are going to locate police services. This applies not only to the central police services, but perhaps especially to creating the different professional environments in the police districts, it is crucial that we have the ability to locate them around the police district. It's important, because although it doesn't necessarily constitute an emergency force to have police investigation departments in a particular place, it says something about police presence and proximity. I am concerned that we should have good police services across the country, and it is important that the national guidelines for the location of state jobs are also followed by the police. We're going to follow that up, and we're still going to follow that up in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e389	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e392	First, I would like to stress the urgent need for police reform. We had a lot of loner offices that started to be drained for resources, lost for presence. That's why you had to grab some grips. We have talked about rape earlier today – the investigation is demanding, we need to build up our skills. One could talk about combating violence against children, organised crime, etc. Both sides must be dealt with, both building up the competence of the new police districts in terms of investigation and being out there. I believe that we are able to balance well in the police reform. But I would also like to support what has been said about the location of the police's new pay and accounting centre, that it is important that the Council of State pushes so that it can be decentralised. The fact that only the East has been assessed surprises me very much – when you can look at Leikanger with NAV Economic Services, Vadsø with the purchasing service of the Health Companies, etc. The police reform says that we want to spread the other functions of the police — not necessarily main seats, but functions — in the police districts. How does the Council of State follow this up to ensure this presence of police throughout the police district?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e399	The latter will now be followed up in the context of the implementation of the reform of the neighbourhood policy. Individual runs are now being made for the various police districts. Here the races will be slightly different in time from what police district they're talking about. We now have the functional holdings and the structure in place, and now we are going to work with the geographical holdings, which are also going to involve the places of employment locally. In the context of the work on functional holdings, the police chief will also be challenged on how to locate it in the police district. All the police officers have a conscious relationship with this, they have brought with them the Storting's clear order that there should be police force around the entire police district, and that there should be a division of competences in the police district. It is important to note that we should not have this as a centralisation reform, nor as regards the professional environments that we should strengthen and build. But there is also a need to have a strong focus on the part of the Department and the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e404	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e407	When I travel to the police, I feel that they are very satisfied with the job done around the reform of the police. They follow the Storting in need and in the logic behind it. But there are two things that I feel they're a little worried about. First of all, if we can get to the goal, that's to get the resources into the districts. And then it's the progression. For now there are many loners out there who don't know whether or not to maintain their loner's office, or what happens. It is clear that living with such uncertainty over time is demanding for everyone. The size has increased to a fairly large process, and it takes time to go through the processes one is going through to make the changes. But what does the Council of State do to ensure that we have progress in the work to be done and to ensure that we are actually able to carry out the good intentions that we agreed on in the context of the reform of the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e412	I just want to mention that the feedback I get when I travel to the police is the same as the representative Nybø gets. It's an impatience. It might be one of the very critical factors we're now going into, because it's a motivation for change, and it's clear that the longer it takes before the change comes, the harder it can be to maintain the motivation, because it's also an uncertainty element with its own everyday life: what do I want to do in the future? How does my position in this system become? That's why I've been very concerned about the progress. But it is also true, as the representative Nybø says, that it has been put up from this house to extensive involvement processes in the setting-up, closure and maintenance of places of employment. We must respect that very much, because I think it is also important for this to be reformed. I'm following this very closely. I have monthly meetings with the Police Directorate and the Police Directorate leadership group on the follow-up to the near-police reform. We have made clear milestone reviews of implementation schedules that we are now in the final phase to determine. So it's a work that has a very strong focus on my part and on the leadership of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e425	‘Freedom of surveillance is a fundamental value in any legal State.’ It is a good quote. It's not my quote, it's the Minister of Justice's quote from when he was a magnificent – and together we stood on these interlocutors and had a similar commitment to stopping the Data Storage Directive and ensuring that privacy was raised high. Then we were many on the team, sail if we had too many against us. Then the Council of State also said: ‘We boast of being a nation where the individual is free and the legal certainty is well maintained. In my opinion, freedom from surveillance is an essential part of the concept of freedom." He also had the support of many who later became state councillors, as State Council Per Sandberg, who said that for the Progress Party it is that the absence of surveillance is part of the welfare. Tord Lien said it's about protecting the minority and protecting the individual from abuse by the majority. Councillor Jon Georg Dale said that Trine Skei Grande is very right when she says that tomorrow's generations will pass judgment on this proposal. It was adopted at Stortinget, but stopped by the EU. Now the Council of State has been the Council of State for almost a thousand days. He's got a lot of the guys from that debate on the team, inside the government. So now my question is to the Minister of Justice: When he has been in power for almost a thousand days – what initiatives has the Council of State taken to strengthen privacy in Norway? And when he's got the people he had in the data storage directive debate, into government – how did he use that commitment to strengthen privacy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e437	I have to say I am very pleased with that question, and I think there were very many good quotes from my and several other statesmen's posts in this room attached to, among other things. data storage Directive. I still mean exactly what I meant at the time – it is an important well-being to have the absence of general surveillance. What is one of the challenges in the trend we have seen in recent years is that monitoring by private companies, for example, is not primarily a challenge for the authorities. The net. What Google, Facebook and others know about your and my lifestyle at the moment is probably surpassing what the authorities have ever imagined they can gain insight into. I believe that I have taken very seriously this commitment in several areas. First of all, it's right that the representative Skei Grande says – DLD got his sentence on himself and never became a reality. We have now set up our own work in the Ministry both to follow up the Data Protection Regulation, which comes from the EU, and to – across departments – look at how we can strengthen privacy, completely independent of the Data Protection Regulation, for example, whether there is a need for, or basis for, own data protection legislation or a separate data protection law that could be a kind of framework around the protection of privacy in Norway. We have also been very clear in the follow-up to the Methodological Control Committee and the government's proposals for follow-up to the use of police methods on which data protection barriers should apply. And we've come up with the methods in a very good way, in my opinion, to ensure that one should sharpen the monitoring that a society needs, against those that the monitoring is supposed to target, namely those who have bad intentions or have committed crime. So I'm still as committed to privacy as I was in opposition, and I'm glad that the representative Skei Grande is addressing this at a time when privacy is still being challenged on new fronts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e446	I have to admit that I do not fully agree with the Council of State that privacy has been raised in some of the proposals submitted related to new legislation. But if we put it aside, we see that privacy is constantly being pushed throughout the justice sector, because of both crime prevention and counter-terrorism, and we see that much of this is pushing the entire law of the justice sector. The last time we had a data protection commission, we were going through the vast breadth of what the state council was talking about now, Google and apps and everything that monitors technology, but you really didn't go into the entire justice sector's demands. Now the Council of State says that he is discussing parts of this. But today, the Left put forward a proposal to get its own Commission to review the justice sector from a privacy point of view, so that we could have discussed the privacy aspects of both crime and terrorism. So the question is, will the Council of State support an initiative to get such a review, as in the proposal that the Left put forward today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e455	I also got the proposal from the Left, and I think it might be a good idea to have a thorough and good review of privacy-related issues. I am a little unsure whether it is necessarily right to limit it in the way that the proposal states – that it is only in the field of data protection in the justice sector, and where it should be reviewed – because if you look at data protection issues in a slightly general sense, the justice sector is a very important part of it, but it is far from the area that necessarily pushes data protection the longest and the worst and most. If one is to have such a commission, I believe that one should facilitate a data protection commission that will review the entire data protection perspective – that we will get the top-right look that is necessary if one is to look at what areas privacy is most under pressure – because then one will also be better able to put in targeted measures to ensure privacy in the future. I don't initially have any counterconceptions about that kind of commission, but I think the perspective might be wider.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e462	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e465	Following these abuses, which have been exposed in kindergartens in Bergen, the Council of State Party colleague Laila Marie Reiertsen has proposed camera surveillance in all kindergartens, among others. with the following reasons: "We have other places where we have camera surveillance. If you do a good job and have nothing to hide, you should not have concerns about camera surveillance." My question to the Council of State is: What does he think about us weakening the privacy of children in this way to avoid such abuses in the future? And when children's privacy is like under pressure as we see an example here, the Council of State sees the need for a review of children's privacy, for example. through a child’s data protection commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e475	Let me first say something completely general and generally about monitoring and the angle of incidence for monitoring. I do not agree with a basis that says that as long as you have nothing to hide, it is okay to be monitored, because then the monitoring does not have any privacy consequences. I mean the opposite. As far as monitoring is concerned, I believe that people who have nothing to hide are definitely perhaps the ultimate protection in terms of privacy – just to have said it. Of course, this also applies to children, and I will not rule out that it may be wise to take a closer look at the child's privacy. If you're going to do that, I might think that a not always should create new commissions to look at parts of a larger issue. However, in the case of Mr Nybø's proposals, the Left would be able to go into the proposal that has been promoted by the European Parliament today, where there may be a perspective in the work of any data protection commission, because it actually underlines the importance of seeing the protection of privacy and the threat to privacy in the context that I believe it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e482	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e485	The balance between privacy and the fight against crime has also been updated with Prop. 68 L for 2015–2016 submitted by the Council of State, associated with hidden coercive measures and permits the police. Without prejudging the treatment at Stortinget, there are many measures that I believe will receive support from the Labour Party, but there are probably also some elements that I am a little questioning about. Among other things, the Council of State will allow public camera surveillance not only to apply to images, such as today, but also to sound. It is worth noting that this is not the current day. We also feel that there is no obvious reason in the proposition itself; there is something to discover when reading the legal text, that the extension has been opened for. So I'd like to hear how the Council of State evaluates this extension to allow all public cameras to capture audio as well as images. What does it have to say for the privacy of ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e492	This isn't about all public cameras. It is about the use of methods, where there is a legal understanding that a method can be used in relation to a very specific situation. It is in that image that the proportionality of the approach to the criminal action it is intended to prevent, detect or investigate is to be assessed. The question is how much it will deviate from what is today's system, in a modern technological development where cameras often have a sound function. So on our part, it has not been a purpose to create a larger extension than it is the basis for, and it is the right that will at any time take into account whether the measure is too intrusive, or whether it is proportionate. The combined capability of image and sound could help to provide evidence in a simpler way than having to have picture and sound separately, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e500	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e503	The main question from the Left concerns privacy, and it is an important topic. The importance of privacy and legal certainty is also important when assessing changes in the law. As mentioned here, the government has put forward a proposal to extend the possibility for the police and the PST to use hidden coercive measures to prevent and fight crime. There are critical objections to the proposal, including: from the Swedish Data Protection Agency and the Norwegian Journalist team. Can the State Council Anundsen draw up the objections he thinks are particularly important to listen to, and to which he thinks the Stortinget should take care of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e510	I hope the representative does not expect me to argue against the government's proposal. But there are important considerations, which I also think comes out very well in the staging proposition, which goes in both directions. It is absolutely crucial – and that is what we have done in the proposition – to target methodology, look it up against privacy considerations and sharpen it in such a way that we balance it well enough. There will always be a discussion about the border between privacy on the one hand and the need for crime resolution on the other. There it is up to the Storting to find the balance. But today, for example. with regard to the main extension of data-reading methods, this is basically a technological adaptation, because it is information that would very often be obtained with traditional coercive measures if it had not been encrypted. Then you can say that you still move it a little bit closer because you go in at an earlier time and get information before you send it out. You could also say about the possibility of a secret search today. So there are many important considerations that need to be weighed against each other, and it is privacy versus crime prevention that is the most important thing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e519	That's when the time was up. Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e524	There were many commissions in the air at the same time here. But I think in many ways that the Council of State itself presented the most emphatic argument, because the challenge of privacy is perhaps the greatest when you see the width of different sectors where there is pressure against privacy, often with a very good purpose. It may relate to the fight against crime in the justice sector, more information on children when it comes to early action in the school sector, health information and car pieces for traffic management and road safety. However, in addition, those working in the individual sectors will usually have the objective of overseeing the fight against crime or better education, while privacy may be at risk of becoming a losing page view. So my question is: can the Council of State intend to support its own idea of a broad-based data protection commission that takes different sectors, sees them together, draws up status and proposes measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e531	I think that's a good idea. We have ourselves considered putting down such a data protection commission. At the same time, we have seen that it is important to implement some measures across as quickly as possible, and as an alternative to a Data Protection Commission, we have set up a separate working group across relevant departments that will look at the same issues in many ways as it would be natural for such a Data Protection Commission to look at. The reason why we have done so is simply that we want to address the issue as quickly as possible and identify different challenges in different sectors that, overall, pressure the privacy of different teams. So we've chosen a different model in many ways, but one that still builds up from the overall perspective that such a kind of data protection commission could have contributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e536	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e539	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The government has announced a Norwegian military contribution to participation in the fight against ISIL, a contribution in Jordan, but one that cannot ignore will eventually also operate in Syria. This means that Norway will now be heavily involved in a new large regional armed conflict. We want one contribution in Iraq and one in Jordan and Syria. At the same time it is this spring five years since the war in Libya, where Norway participated in a military operation with the original purpose of protecting civilians, but which eventually led to a regime change in Libya. Many people may say about Libya, but I think it may be possible to create a broad consensus that Libya is today one of the countries that works the worst in the world, and that have massive challenges – from humanitarian to social governance itself – without even suggesting that Libya was a particularly brilliant example of a well-functioning country before that. Nevertheless, the extensive Norwegian military effort of the spring, and the mandate of the changes that took place around it, has not been the subject of a wide and external evaluation until now, although it has been quite significant public debate on the contribution and on the idea of an evaluation. I would certainly say that it would be wise to evaluate that effort before a now started with a new one in the same region, but it is too late now. On the other hand, it is not too late to evaluate and draw lessons from what happened then, until later. So my question is: will the Minister of Defence propose and take the initiative for a broad and external evaluation of the Norwegian military Libyan contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e550	That's right, as the representative Solhell says, there's a lot to say about what happened in Libya afterwards. President Obama was very clear at the NATO Summit in 2014 that he felt the effort was right and important. I mean that too. I also assume that the representative Solhjell believes, who was in the government that decided it, but that what was missing was the follow-up, that is, the strategy on how to deal with the situation after a military action. Then the operations in Libya in their time and what is now happening in Iraq, Jordan and Syria, are very different. At the time it was about an action that intended to stop Gaddafi and his killing of the civilian population, it was an action that was quickly decided by the Security Council to give mandate to, and Norway participated in an air operation in line with other countries. What is now happening is a training and counselling operation in which local forces are able to handle it – I kept saying ‘unprecdented’, because that is what is in the mandate that we give – the threat that ISIL represents throughout the region, and that is another type of operation. We are currently carrying out a major evaluation of Afghanistan's efforts over many years, and I would like to make it clear that, although a major evaluation of Afghanistan's efforts has not yet been carried out, evaluations are being carried out all along. The defense does very systematic evaluations of what works, and what does not work. The U.D. and Norwegian authorities are also involved in the civil effort they are doing in addition. That is why I believe that we are now focusing first and foremost on the evaluation of Afghanistan, and on implementing and fulfilling the tasks we have undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e559	I'm well aware of the reason for the participation, and I'm well aware that Obama is aware of it, but it's okay to think about it. I have actually noticed that President Obama, among others. has done a larger interview with the magazine The Atlantic recently, where he significantly troubles the effect of participation in Libya. You're allowed to go round with yourself and not least contribute to the public debate you could get, and the learning you could get, regardless of whether you still think it was wise. I'll also draw a parallel to what's agreed on Syria. Because that might be different, but it's important that there is an enlightened public debate in front, and in this case we don't have a big decision or a big debate about it. We have an entirely legal process, but my question is, could the Council of State consider taking the initiative for an open distribution or by any means bringing the new participation in Jordan and Syria to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e564	The Prime Minister made an open statement in Stortinget in connection with our joining the coalition and participating in Operation Inherent Resolution, of which this new contribution is also part. The Prime Minister and I have pointed out in the press conferences we have held, and in the statement made by the Prime Minister, just all the challenges of this kind of contribution. We have in no way hidden the fact that it is complicated, both because the image of the actor is complex, and because of course you should be involved in training and training missions where you never have guarantees of how this will proceed. That's why we also make ongoing assessments and changes to the operations in which we participate, for example. has done so in Iraq. In addition, the government has now also published the international legal basis and assessments made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's quite unusual to do, but we've done it to contribute to an informed and good debate. We are in discussions and debates, just as there has been a lot of discussion and debate after the Libyan mission. I think that's been right and important, because it's obviously always learning to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e572	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e575	In the Question Time last Wednesday, the Prime Minister said that it is important that some people are fighting on the ground in Syria and in Iraq. It shouldn't be our troops, it should be other troops, but they need training to do it. At the same time, it is clear from the media, and also from the government, that the mission that has now been joined opens up for Norwegian soldiers to participate in operations inside Syria. We know that the basis of international law for the contribution is based on the invitation of the Iraqi government. My question today is: Will Norwegian soldiers participate in ground fighting in Syria, and will that be in international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e582	Firstly, I have to clarify a manifest misunderstanding about the basis of international law. The basis of international law for our presence in Iraq is the invitation of Iraqi authorities. The basis of international law for our participation and training of local Syrian groups is linked to the collective self-defense of Iraq, and it is a basis of international law on which our close allies have also laid their ground. It is a basis of international law that has its origin in the very clear resolution adopted by the UN Security Council on 20 November last year, namely that ISIL must be combated by all means, all the necessary means, and not least that ISIL should be seen as a single entity in one area, namely Iraq and Syria. That is the basis of international law on which we and several other central allies build our presence. Then we've been very clear that it's not, either from the coalition or from Norway, the idea that Western troops are going to fight this fight. We're going to enable Syrian groupings and Iraqi forces to do that. We're going to advise, mentor and train, and if it's going to be time to go in and do this task on Syrian territory, we're going back with a special consultation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e589	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e592	I also think it is important to discuss the impact of military operations, and I think it is useful that we can have discussions that embrace wide, and that magnification and government also agree on how to conduct that kind of evaluation. It is difficult to compare what we did in Libya with what we have done in Afghanistan – where we have been for many years – and assistance, but I look forward to a further discussion on how we can get a good evaluation, because we need that. But my question is related to the contribution we are now going to make, which we have supported, and on which we have had good dialogue, and on which we are also going to have other consultations. It could also be an advantage, as the representative here was about, to get more discussion about this in the Stortinget. My question is related to NATO's role. The NATO Secretary-General has, of course, taken the initiative to increase NATO’s fight, not for the warriors of others, but for the strength and support of others. Will the Minister of Defence contribute to NATO's increased role in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e599	I would like to thank you for a good question and also for what is said about both discussions in advance and support for the mission. It is quite clear that there has been a discussion and probably will be a discussion ahead in NATO about NATO as an organisation to take a clearer role. In particular, it is based on the fact that all NATO member countries are involved in different ways, in addition to very many others that make up the coalition of 65 countries. The question is whether NATO can play a clearer role, for example: through the use of their command and control systems, which will make it easier for some smaller allied countries to participate. For the time being, there has been relatively little appetite for this in NATO among the Member States. It may change as the coalition has also increased and count all NATO countries — and it may be that benefits can be seen from the use of NATO. But from NATO as an organization, there has been a lot of restraint until now, and this is a discussion that I expect is also going to be there in the recording of the summit that takes place in July.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e604	Astrid Aarhus Byrknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e607	The ISIL terrorist group is a threat to international security, which in turn threatens our own security. Norway must therefore contribute to the removal of the ISIL Free Port of Terrorism, as called for in UN Security Council Resolution 2249. The regulations are clear: the contribution must be fully in accordance with international law, we must not be lured into a ground war, and Norwegian soldiers should not be sent into Syria. If this is the case, the Stortinget must be consulted – something the Council of State has also confirmed. But how will the Minister of Defense ensure that the selection, training and definition of the mission minimise the risk of training people who use the combat training in the terrorists' service, or in the inter-war between parties in the armed conflict in Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e612	Thank you for a good question and articles. There have been two very clear assumptions for the basis of international law and our contribution. One is that those we train and learn should only direct their efforts towards ISIL. The second is that they will not in any way disrupt the ongoing peace process, for there are now in many ways two conflicts in Syria. There have been very clear assumptions from us. When we provide this kind of training and training contribution, which we have good experience with over many years, we always have international humanitarian law and the international law of war as part of the training. The coalition made many experiences early on how to pick out the ones you train and learn, and now the selection and training procedures are much better. Assessments are made at individual, management and group level. Biometry, interviews, history and lie detector tests are used to identify who is worthy of this type of training. It's an important side of it, because it's these rooms that have to stand in front of the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e619	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e622	We in the Left also believe it is important to have a debate, transparency is important, and it is important not to make this simple decision. It is difficult to say yes, but it should also be difficult to say no to participate in the fight against IS, which is also a struggle for our security. What's the challenge here, there's a lot of the questions that have been asked before, but it's also: what are we fighting for? We're very good at defining what we're fighting. It's easy to bring together an international coalition against IS, the values they stand for, how they act, how they relate to human rights. All of this is easy to mobilize forces against. But I think we're bad at saying what we're fighting for. What are we going to have when we're successful? What set of rules are we going to have when we're successful, and what goal do we set for the effort we put in here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e628	I agree with the introduction of the representative of Skei Grande. It's quite obvious that it's not easy, but the assessment that the government has made, like many others who are now taking part in the coalition, is that not doing anything is also a choice with consequences. I think it's important to emphasise that although this is complicated, it also has a cost of not doing anything – both for our own security and for regional security. To the question of what you are fighting for: As I mentioned in the previous answer, our contribution is very clearly directed towards combating ISIL. You could say it's fighting something, but at the same time, it's fighting for something. Combating ISIL is a crucial factor for development and stability in the region. It is a crucial factor in preventing both foreign fighters and terrorist acts, including in Western territory. Contributing to the ability of local Syrian groups and the Iraqi army to combat the threat posed by ISIL is, in my view, also to fight for something, namely stability and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e635	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e638	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. According to several newspapers, the evaluation of the Directorate of Police shows that the very unusual situation in Storskog in the fall, when there were record asylum seekers, got developed for several weeks before he was taken seriously. The police officer in Aust-Finnmark already sent an alert on 9 September, and according to this report, the police were not banned from the intrusion, they lacked both the competence, the crew and the infrastructure to which they were going. Neither the police nor the police nor the authorities seemed to cooperate well enough. Now this is a preliminary evaluation, but it still paints a fairly clear picture: that crisis awareness is missing in the Police Directorate, that the leadership of political leadership was absent, and when it concerns the outside warning, the police themselves, on the ground, in East Finland, they were not shown enough confidence. When it comes to the day-to-day routines of the Police Directorate, there is something for which the Police Directorate itself is responsible, but when it comes to understanding the crisis in a crisis situation, it is for the seventh and last Minister of Justice who is responsible – i.e. that the notice was not taken seriously enough early enough, and that Norwegian authorities lack sufficient control over Storskog Border Station over a long period of time. The question is why it took so long for the government to understand that the crisis at Storskog was a national crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e649	I do not agree that it took a long time. I mean it went very, very fast. It must be remembered that the background for Storskog was that there were almost no asylum arrivals from Russian territory to Norway. So we saw a situation where there was a cautious increase. It was something new. At the same time, we saw a situation in the south, where there was a dramatic increase. While the arrivals over Storskog were between the 20 and 30s, there were 10–15–20 times as much in the south. It was a situation where all our resources were already under pressure, and we were working on developing different solutions to prevent an even greater crisis on arrivals in the south. Then you might say in the light of the postwar clock that perhaps you should send up reinforcement resources to Storskog earlier than what was done. So they sent 24 new posts rather quickly. The blackmail police were sent up to reinforce it. The foreign agency of the police was sent up to strengthen border control. And this actually didn't go as slowly as the individual can get the impression -- it went relatively quickly. It was a development that, if you compare it to what was happening in the south, was very careful, even though it was dramatic. We managed both situations in a fast and efficient way with the resources we had access to, and we allocated resources to the north as quickly as it could. Then you could say that maybe you should have heard more about local forces. It will always be in an evaluation that there are learning points. I think there are many learning points in the sector evaluations that are now being developed, but to create the impression that this situation could have been very different with another kind of handling, I don't think that's why.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e656	The Minister of Justice said there was a cautious increase in the north. But around the time when the police officer sends the notice - i.e. 9 September - the Prime Minister himself is talking about a dramatic increase in a party leadership debate, based on information from the Justice and Defence Department. Then she would talk about about about 200 arrivals every day. It was information that she trusted at the time. So it's not that one wasn't in a situation where one should have passed the situation. One should have understood that there was a warning from the police officer in East Finland that there was a need for more expertise, more resources, more staffing and a better management of the situation in Storskog. I'm forced to ask the Minister of Justice - since he's standing here saying that he didn't understand or should not understand at the time, or in the light of the post-war perhaps he should understand: what time was the Minister of Justice aware that there was a warning from the police officer in East Finland that one didn't have enough resources to deal with the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e665	I think it's a pretty good lesson from this case and many other crises that you shouldn't put your trust in wrong speech. So you can't plan a standby based on a 200 when the real one was about a tenth of it. I think it's a strange approach that the head of the Justice Committee has to that question if she really thinks that we were based on something that was completely wrong, which was based on a misdemeanour or a misdelivery of an information, would make contingency plans or follow-up plans for a situation that we couldn't possibly predict at that time. I think we should deal as far as possible with the facts, and therefore these evaluation reports are quite good, by bringing out different aspects of the handling from which we can draw benefits and lessons. That's the situation with all the handling situations, and we certainly have a lot to learn here as well. But let's not forget the rug. Let's not forget the situation that also applied in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e672	It opens for one follow-up question – from Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e675	What we hear here is a government council that has a remarkable lack of recognition that things in Storskog were not handled as it was supposed to. What happened in Storskog is also reflected in a larger image. At this time last year, the entire media image was marked by a very high number of arrivals of refugees and asylum seekers in Europe. Nevertheless, the government was terribly surprised when the number of arrivals to Norway also increased in the summer of 2015. And not only that: although the government in its 2016 budget proposal stated that August was the largest asylum inflow month in Norway since the early 1990s, the budget for UDI was cut. In Storskog it took many weeks – the municipality of South Varanger and the local police were left alone – to deal with the situation, despite the fact that they knew and so, not least through the media, that the number of arrivals also increased there. So I repeat the question, how could the government and the Council of State be totally unprepared for the situation, and why not take action when everyone saw that things happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e684	I get to say to the representative Pedersen the same thing as I said to the representative Tajik: the premise on the question is not correct. We weren't unprepared, we handled the situation the way we could handle the situation there and then. To give the impression that there is a lack of recognition that the handling could have been different is wrong. We are now working on evaluations to look at what could have been done differently. But I think it's important when you're going to review such evaluations, to look at what actually happened, what was done in relation to what could have been optimally done. Then one has to evaluate this from the real-time picture that was available of information at the very moment this happened. In the light of the post-war, it is often possible to say that more police resources should have been sent up more quickly. It would not reduce the influx of asylum, it would have no effect on anything but the handling and processing of the persons who came. In record time, we got up a separate reception centre in the municipality of South Varanger, among others. because the municipality of Sør-Varanger helped, stood on and made a huge effort with the floors. I just think that one has to take a little more into account what was actually done, based on the reality that existed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e695	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e707	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Magne Rommetveit to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Industry who directs him. Question 2, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Culture, the question is moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Hanne Thürmer to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be raised by the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e730	This question, from the representative of Magne Rommetveit to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Industry who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e733	‘The basic document for the national transport plan 2018-2029 shows that 476 people have died in connection with the use of recreational craft in the period 2002 to 2015. Fortunately, for several years we have experienced a marked decline in the number of people killed and seriously injured in car traffic. What measures will the Council of State put in place to strengthen maritime safety for recreational craft, and will the Council of State, as pointed out by several recreational boat organisations, consider a separate 'unclosed group' as one of the measures taken to improve the safety of those sailing in recreational craft?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e740	The Government is committed to increasing safety in the use of recreational craft and wishes to take measures that may reduce the number of fatal accidents. On 1 May 2015, it was mandatory to use float-west equipment on recreational boats less than 8 metres. In addition to increasing the safety of individual boat users, the directive intends to help create better attitudes at sea. To find out if we achieve the desired effects, I have decided that the directive should be evaluated. That evaluation will be completed at the beginning of June 2016, and I await the results of this study before assessing further its follow-up. The awareness-raising work relating to maritime safety is and must always have a high focus. Much has been done over several years to increase safety in the use of recreational craft. Increased knowledge of boat life through work on good attitudes, the introduction of a mandatory boat driver test and an information campaign aimed at fishing tourists are among the measures that have been implemented. Last year the curriculum was revised for the boat driver's test to increase the focus on good seafarers, the rules of the sea and the dangers associated with high speed. The SHT is responsible for investigating maritime accidents, including accidents involving recreational boats. SHT is not obliged to investigate such accidents but may, on a professional basis, decide to investigate them. The contribution the study can make to the overall maritime safety work is crucial. The government believes that it should be withheld from the SHT or any other body that all, or specific types of recreational boating accidents should be investigated. In addition to SHT being able to investigate recreational boat accidents, the police are investigating accidents where criminal offences are suspected. We know that there are often no single factors that cause pleasure boat accidents. There are many times a combination of several factors: too high speed, per mille, lack of use of floating equipment or driving in the dark. The Maritime Directorate conducts statistics related to pleasure boat accidents and uses the information in its awareness-raising work. Accident statistics do not provide a basis for making precise conclusions about causes and events, but nevertheless give an indication of the most common causes of accidents. With regard to the question of the recommendation of the trade unions to the future NTP, this is a matter for consideration in the Ministry of Transport and thus not concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e762	I thank you for your answer. I then saw that we were going to enter the Chamber here, that the question that was addressed to the Minister for Transport, “will be answered by the Minister for Industry who is directing him”. It's probably right, but at the same time, the Ministry of Transport also has something to do with it – they run the Coastal Works, ports, fairways, loos, the Rescue Company, the State's Maritime Commission for Transport and the NTP work, which has transport safety as an important point. Then my question is, Are there too many actors involved in this? Wouldn't it be good, as the boat industry wants, to get an accident group that really takes hold and takes hold of this? Is there anything the Council of State might think of going on with – it may well be from the Directorate of Maritime Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e771	It is true that this is an area that actually embraces three departments, both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, and our assessment has been that the responsibilities are relatively clear. It is such that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is responsible for the Directorate of Maritime Affairs, the general rules on recreational craft with westbound commands, boat driving licences and construction and equipment. In addition, we are responsible for the field of maritime transport under the National Maritime Commission for Transport, and so the Ministry of Transport has its responsibilities. Neither the previous government nor this government found recommending the creation of a separate accident team. We have an organisation that will be professionally independent, which will make its professional assessments of when further studies are needed. Then we have to keep looking for new tools. We all want to fight the large number of fatal accidents, and what is being concluded by the Ministry of Transport on this issue, we do not yet know.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e778	Compared to shipping accidents at sea in industry, the number is about six times higher in the case of killed persons related to recreational boating. I have to say that I think there are alarmingly high numbers, and I would like to ask the Council of State not only to follow closely, but also to listen to the professional organisations and the recreational boat organisations, who are really asking for an accident team. And they want to contribute themselves. Taking users into account the design of the measures, I also believe that it is very important. Among other things, many fatal accidents have now occurred at the dock, when one is going to add, when one is going to fill water, when one is going to fill diesel – or what it is now. Once again, I would like to encourage you to really get hold of this and follow up on the organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e783	We have – and should of course have – contact with the user organisations. It was the case that the Maritime Directorate delivered a report in 2012 on the safety of recreational craft. That report was reviewed by Stortinget in June 2014 and also in December 2014. The main action taken by the majority in the Chamber was then westbound, in the hope that it would contribute to lower accident statistics. It has not yet done so, but one can conclude that it does not work. It's too early to say. We are now doing an evaluation, and then we have received a request from the Stortinget to come back with measures, and we will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e788	Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e802	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e809	We go to question 4, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who will be answered by the Minister for Industry. It does not appear that Rasmus Hansson is present. There the president sees that the representative Hansson enters the hall. The President requests that representatives be present when questions are to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e814	President, deeply regret that I was not, and thank you for the patience! My question is addressed to the Minister for Climate and Environment, but I understand that it is answered by the Minister for Industry. It's like: «The Environment Directorate recommends the Dalen mine in Brevik as a landfill for hazardous organic waste. The size awaits a big message about waste policy and the circular economy, which will review waste policy and how to best reduce the amounts of hazardous waste and recycle. Will the Council of State ensure that the Landfill Communication on Waste Policy and the Circular Economy is promoted before a long-term plan for inorganic hazardous waste and any new landfill is determined?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e825	I will begin by clarifying that I perceive that Rasmus Hansson here refers to the Environment Directorate's recommendation on the Dalen mines in Brevik as a landfill for hazardous inorganic waste. The current landfill of hazardous waste in Lang Island is estimated to be full by 2022. Norway has national targets and international obligations to maintain a national treatment capacity for hazardous waste. It is therefore necessary to put in place a new landfill for inorganic hazardous waste before the current capacity has been exhausted. The waste strategy presented in 2013 provides a basis for business to establish the necessary capacity itself. However, it has proved difficult, because attempts at it have been stopped at municipal level. This is why the Ministry of Climate and Environment commissioned the Environment Directorate to identify possible sites for a hazardous waste landfill. The Environment DG's recommendation was available on 2 May this year. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is now following up the case, and until 3 June, all interested parties have the opportunity to comment on the inquiry by the Environment Directorate. On 30 May, the KLD shall organise a stakeholder and interest group recording meeting, and on 7 June, the Minister for Climate and Environment will visit Brevik. Therefore, in the light of the ongoing process, it is too early to answer the representative Hansson’s question about time fixing. Regardless of where a landfill would be located, it is time to carry out the necessary impact assessments and planning processes, to process applications for permits under the pollution law and to carry out practical work on the establishment of the necessary infrastructure and logistics. While the establishment of a new hazardous waste landfill is an important task, an important challenge in the future is also to assess how and in what areas it is possible to achieve a reduction in the amounts of hazardous waste generated. It is also important to assess whether it is possible to use the resources of hazardous waste without leading to an increased risk to health and the environment. There are already several examples in the Norwegian industry of the use of inorganic hazardous waste as a resource. Although we would in the future achieve increased exploitation or alternative treatment of some hazardous waste types, the Environment Directorate is of the opinion that a landfill solution for inorganic hazardous waste will also be needed in the future. It will be waste types, or parts of the waste, that are not suitable for material recovery and that have intrinsic properties that make it important to ensure that substances in the waste do not drift away. There may also be cases where waste types that are not considered hazardous today are reclassified to hazardous waste in the future. Therefore, in the light of national targets and international commitments, and in the light of the time it takes to establish a hazardous waste landfill, it is important that we continue the ongoing process of setting up a hazardous waste landfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e844	Thank you to the Council of State for a constructive, thorough and reassuring answer. I'll follow up a few of the things she's taking up. The municipality board in Porsgrund has stopped the plan program from NOAH and Norcem to establish a landfill for hazardous waste in Brevik, and that's good. The Green Party supports the absence of a decision on landfill solutions in Brevik, or elsewhere, until the Stortinget has addressed the Landfill Communication on a comprehensive review of Norwegian waste policy. The most important thing is to achieve a better policy to reduce the quantities of hazardous waste, as the Council of State rightly points out. Will the government present a national plan for the management of hazardous waste and its reuse and recycling?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e853	As I said, it's too early to answer that question. At the moment, there is a process of having a consultation period and recording meetings, and the Council of State will go to Brevik to investigate this matter more closely. Before it is concluded, we cannot answer the question asked by the representative Hansson here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e858	I take note of that, although I would encourage the Council of State to think carefully about the need for such a plan. I would like to point out that the EU framework directive on waste requires the recycling of municipal waste, packaging, construction waste, etc., and the European Commission has recently put forward a number of proposals to increase the EU's resource efficiency. In this circular economy package, there is a strengthening of recovery targets and the proposal makes it clear that waste hierarchy should be taken into account in the design of instruments. In this case, at least the question to the Council of State must be: does the Council of State at least agree that material recovery requirements for hazardous waste should be established in Norway and will the Government actively work towards the EU in order to include such requirements in the EU framework directive on hazardous waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e865	What I can at least answer is that we're going to deal with the international commitments we have. We've done that, and we're going to do that. We have received some technical recommendations from the Environment Directorate. It is the work that is now being followed up, and then we have to come back to the further work after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e876	‘Parents/parents and foster parents with care for children with disabilities and developmental disorders often encounter child protection with a lack of competence. This has been pointed out repeatedly by, for example: Autism Association in Norway. The methodology related to the child’s challenges is often not used, but inadequate child protection methodology is used. This may have fatal consequences for the children concerned. What will the Council of State do to increase the competence and change the practice of child protection in relation to these children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e883	I would like to thank the representative for a good and important question. Municipal child protection services always have an obligation to examine the needs of children before the choice of measures. In this first phase, where the needs of children are investigated and monitored, I assume that child protection cooperates with other departments with relevant specialist expertise where necessary. This will very often relate to the competence of health services, both from the primary and specialist health services. Research from NOVA 2011 shows that child protection employees find it challenging to assess the care of parents who have children with disabilities and who sometimes have very high needs for care. Parents may have very good care skills, but feel that they are not reaching out because they are not getting good enough help from the public to handle their particularly demanding care tasks. Other parents will not be able to care for their children’s needs for different reasons. Child protection employees experience that it may be difficult to distinguish these extremes from each other, and that it is particularly demanding to deal with issues that lie in the grey zone between them. I have commissioned the Directorate, Bufdir, to investigate a quality system that provides clear guidance for the implementation of studies, the choice of measures and their follow-up by the child protection system. Bufdir has also been given a mandate to address the competence needs of child protection services. Furthermore, Bufdir has created a network resource for the work of child protection with children with disabilities. The main objective of this information is to help distinguish between the symptoms of care failure and disability. The network resource has the title ‘Mission of care or disability?’ The Directorate will also, in cooperation with the Directorate for Health, provide a digital guide on children and young people with disabilities in the field of child protection. The guide, which is aimed at both the child protection and health sectors, is planned to be completed in 2017. Guidance has also been provided in the Guidebook for Community work on foster homes on how child protection services should provide a basis for good care for children with disabilities. The ‘Security and care — Foster home for children’s best’, which is being treated here in Stortinget now, refers to, among other things. recruitment of homes for children with disabilities. Here we underline that foster parents for children with disabilities have a special need for close follow-up, so that they can become good and stable foster homes. We also point to the need for guidelines for strengthening measures, with a specific mention of aid measures, to ensure greater equality and predictability in the framework conditions of foster homes providing care for children with disabilities. Finally, I would like to agree with the questioner on the importance of keeping a high professional standard in the field of child protection investigations. Wrong assessments at this stage know that we can have serious consequences for each child, and I want to stress the importance of child protection having good cooperation practices with other institutions that are important in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e904	I think it was very uplifting in the Council's response. Today I have two guests with me. I brought with me a mother and a foster mother, who have two young people with major challenges, including: autism. These are relatives who have met the system in a rather brutal way, to say it carefully. One, the foster mother, is known from the so-called Mountain cause. What at least I and others experience when we work on these matters is a child's protection that goes into locks very quickly, and that has little ability to turn when one first decides for something, even if the decisions are wrong. So the question is whether the Council of State will look at whether it is possible to create systems that allow quality child protection to be ensured at an earlier stage, even when a person makes bad judgements – because perhaps one will always do so – instead of those people being dragged through many legal processes, with the suffering it causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e911	It is important, without me going into the individual case, that parents who need help from child protection, and also foster parents, who take on an incredibly important job, are met with respect and receive the follow-up and guidance they require, in order to give the children they have a responsibility for, safe, good home. Unfortunately, we see that in individual municipalities they are not good enough for the follow-up and guidance that is actually a municipal responsibility to carry out. For this reason, it is also in the foster home message that is being treated now, much clearer and clearer guidelines for the municipalities, where we now need to make professional recommendations on how to follow up the individual foster family so that they can provide the children with a stable, good home. It is important to stress that this work is being done in the municipalities, and it is important that municipalities and municipal politicians put child protection on the agenda and ensure that child protection in their municipality follows the obligation under the law that they are to do in the child protection cases in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e918	I'm glad the Council of State shakes a little bit in the local politicians here, because I think it's so diverse in terms of competence and willingness to go in and do a good job. It shows some of these things. Something else that is very worrying, perhaps especially about these children who have special challenges, and who may also partly lack language, is that they are little heard in these processes. Again, I use the mountain case as an example, where the child has not been tried at all, even if the law says that an alternative, supplementary communication should be used to hear the child or the youth concerned. How can one ensure that child protection as best they can try to hear all children, but especially these children, in these processes? Unfortunately, this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e927	The children's right to participate in their case and to be heard has been strengthened by a unanimous magnification. It is within the law, and it is up to the municipalities to follow that law – children should be heard and involved in their case. If the municipality has not done so, they have not complied with the law. It is then, if there is a violation of the law, it is important that we have supervision, such as the County Council, that oversees the municipalities, and it is important that the municipal politicians put this on the agenda and ask how the municipality works with regard to the participation of children and whether children are heard, that this issue is addressed. Then it's important that the families or children who have special challenges are well-monitored, that they get the help they're going to get. Often we see that there are challenges between child protection and mental health or specialist health services. The Minister of Health and I have now taken action together to establish a better cooperation between the specialist health service and child protection. It is important that it is also done in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e945	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e952	This question, from the representative of Hanne Thürmer to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be raised by the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e955	‘The Ministry of Justice and Security is responsible for the police's follow-up to the crime. How does the Council of State feel that the police follow up on the obvious crimes committed by Rema-1000 every Sunday, and what does the Council of State think that individual actors in this industry do not respect the applicable legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e962	The question specifically refers to one food chain. As the underlying issue concerns several actors, I find it most appropriate to answer the question in general. It is the law of 24 February 1995 No. 12 on Holidays and Holiday Peace, § 5, second paragraph, No. 1 cf. the first paragraph, which opens up for sale on Sundays and public holidays from ‘sales outlets which essentially sell kiosks or groceries and which have a total sales surface not exceeding 100 sqm’, which is the starting point for the question. I believe, of course, that laws should be complied with. Paragraph 6 of the Act provides that fines are to be imposed on any intentional or negligent infringement of the provision in question. The criminal justice system correctly shows that, when the relevant provisions were adopted in 1995, the Stortinget assessed this type of offence among the minors, in a larger form of criminal law. The police and the prosecution authority are responsible for following up all types of offences that are punishable. At the same time, the police must make ongoing assessments of the offences that need to be prioritised and followed up. Priorities are not just about raising issues that are important, but sometimes about setting priorities, so that other issues get less attention. The Norwegian police have been providing significant funds since the government change, over 3 billion. While health care is provided, it is still the case – of course – that one in each police district must give priority to the issues to be addressed and the issues to be dealt with the most. Our key priorities for criminal proceedings follow from the budget proposal for 2015–2016, including: serious impairment of integrity and gross profit-based crime are brought forward. The reason for this priority is, of course, that this type of crime either represents major human suffering, has high socio-economic costs or is very socially damaging in other ways. I feel that the Stortinget has agreed to the overall priority through its treatment of the budgets. Furthermore, individual cases in the criminal field are covered by the prosecution authority, and in its 2016 criminal priorities, the Advocate-General has emphasised that police officers are responsible for giving priority to all matters in the district that fall under the priorities of the Advocate-General if there is a shortage of resources, regardless of the organisational unit initially assigned to the investigation and prosecution task. Violation of this provision in the Law on Holidays and Holiday Peace is not among the crimes that are considered to be prioritised by the Riksadvokat, but I assume that any police officer in his or her own police district will at any time make an assessment of how socially harmful crime is and what offences are to be followed up, and it is obvious that the activity we are now seeing could affect the priorities of a police officer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e979	I would like to thank you for your answer. Now I agree that the police must give priority, and it is not really the police who are addressing my question, it is the more government and what the government is doing. Because despite the fact that the government, in meeting with the actors on Friday, made clear that the law of the day was to be respected, ordinary shops in some chains kept open this Sunday as well, and there was a deliberate crime because the requirements of the law were not taken into account, among other things. on physical walls, separate entry and square metres. Some of the actors are clear that they are doing what they can to comply with the law, while others openly announce that they are breaking and thinking of continuing to break Norwegian law. So my question is, can the Minister of Justice assure us that he will assist the Minister of Culture in achieving respect for Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e986	I would like to stress, as I did in my main reply, that individual cases under criminal law are under the prosecution authority. The prosecution authority is independent, and it is not up to the Minister of Justice and Defence to instruct in specific individual cases. At the same time, I believe that there is a difference between the situation we now experience, and the situation we have experienced in the past, which the questioner is also concerned with, where there were sporadic breaches in the past, often because there were a little too many square meters or other kind of follow-up that were not satisfactory, to what we now see the outlines of, which is a more systematic work to undermine a law that has been passed in this house, and which the police have also been set to enforce. But I would like to stress that I have great respect for the individual police officer's assessment of specific matters in his own police district, and I will not give any instructions or the like in this regard. However, I think it is important that the developments we have seen show that there is something else we are now facing than what we did a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e993	I would also like to thank you for that answer and feel that the Minister of Justice and Defence sees that there is a slightly different situation now than the one we have seen before. So, despite the Minister of Culture's clear message on Friday, we see that it seems that some of the actors do not intend to respect the law that this house has passed. But I hope that today's clear speech from Stortinget – to which the Minister of Justice has now contributed – makes the impression, and that all actors are listening to this and are concerned that the law must be followed. So my last question is, can the Minister of Justice guarantee that the government will ensure that the law is enforced, both on Sundays in general and not least now at Pentecost?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1000	I have now, in my two previous answers, stated that I am not going to give any instructions to the prosecution authority. It shall be independent in respect of individual cases in the field of criminal proceedings. But at the same time I have stressed that I think it is demanding to be a passive spectator that someone actively encourages a crime. There's no doubt about where the majority in this room is, where the boundaries of the law are, is standing, and I think it's hard to claim that the law in any area should be particularly unclear. It is the task of the police to work on all matters that are punishable, but I would like to stress that I have great respect for the fact that the police's resource situation is such that the individual police officer must give priority to the most serious issues. I am a very strong defender of the fact that it leads to other matters being deprioritized, and I have respect for the judgements that the policeman locally will make at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1009	«Lastly, it has been revealed that several daily food chains violate the law on public holidays and holiday peace, by not dealing in different ways with the rules for Sunday open shops. How will the Council of State ensure that the offences of the shops do not continue, and that there is no legal situation developing in line with the law of the day, for which there is no majority in the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1016	The law has limits to commercial activity on Sundays and public holidays. The general rule is that fixed outlets selling goods to the consumer should remain closed on these days, and there are a number of exceptions for specific types of shops. As you know, the Ministry has made proposals to amend the legislation at the hearing. The debate has shown that the government's proposals do not have a majority on the Stortinget. I would therefore like to stress that the rules that apply at all times should, of course, be respected and followed by all those who operate fixed outlets. The legal status of the shops does not change the practice of the legislation. It's the police's job to enforce the law. Several shops have been fined and withdrawn. The last examples of fines are from Molde and Kristiansund at Christmas. It follows from the current rules that a fixed point of sale must be a place which can be closed or locked. It is not possible to convert parts of a shop on Sundays and public holidays by using movable partitions etc. The definition of a fixed point of sale has a long history and returns to previous laws in the field. The rules for smaller grocery stores not exceeding 100 m2 are clear. I have communicated that the rules of the law are clear, in a meeting with, among other things, the food chain, which was held on 6 May. There were no examples in the meeting that the law was unclear. Any change in the legal status requires a majority in favour of a legislative amendment and it is not for the actors to decide how to interpret and practise the legislation. In the meeting with the food chains on 6 May I also made it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1028	I am pleased that the Council of State is as clear as she is, that the government did not reach a majority or listen to the consultation for its proposals for amendments in the form of the liberalisation of the legislation, and that there is today's legislation, which will apply to the majority of the population, which provides for the possibility of having Sunday-open shops to a certain extent, but according to given rules, and which at the same time takes care of the concerns of the Workers' Party, and it is that Sunday is to be held as a different day, and, for most of us, is to be a day off. I also learned that the Council of State, at the request of the NHO, Trade and Office and the industry themselves, had a dishes meeting on 6 May, and that the Council of State there gave a clear message that the legislation should be complied with. But already on Sunday 8th May, several chains still had open, which is not in line with the legislation. What will the Council of State now do to ensure compliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1037	What we're really discussing here is the Brustad Bua, which is open on Sundays. It's a survival of a Workers' Party government. This situation and this law is something that this government has never primarily wanted. We are dealing with the legislation and the law that the Labour Party government introduced. We wanted to change this, also because today's law is distorting competition. We want equal rules for all actors. Then that proposal didn't get the majority, and we take note of that. But as long as the law is there, it must be followed. I understand that some actors in the industry want to change today's legislation, but laws change – as the representative of Trettebergstuen knows very well – by Stortinget. There are not single actors that change the law by apparently breaking it. Therefore, my clear answer is that this law should be followed by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1042	I am aware that the Minister of Culture really wants liberalisation in the case of Sunday-open shops. But it's the big crowd that decides, and the big crowd wants Sunday to be a different day, where most people are going to be free. That is why the Council of State is responsible for complying with today's legislation. As I said, daily food chains demonstrate every Sunday that the government lacks action, because despite the fact that the Council of State had a dishwashing meeting with the industry itself, the industry continues to keep open, contrary to the legislation. Now we're on our way into the pinnacle, the Council of State thinks she's been clear and clear, and the Minister of Justice says the law should be enforced. Nevertheless, it is advertised that the chain of stores should be open in the pink, and that is not in line with the legislation. Now what will the Council of State do to ensure that the chains do not break the law? Is she going to do something, or is she going to sit and see that the industry is still getting along?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1051	Unfortunately, when the law is designed as it is – by the former Labour Party government, which wanted to legislate the law like that – this situation has arisen. That's why I think we should change the law in order to get a level playing field for all actors, or in order to perceive that these are equal terms. I've been as clear as I can. I repeat that. I expect them to respect the law, and I am serious about deliberately challenging Norwegian law. It is not a majority in the United Kingdom to liberalise Sunday and public holidays legislation. That's what the government has taken inwards, and we also see from the hearing opinions. We expect the law, as it is now, to be followed. And then I refer to what the Minister of Justice said in his answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1060	Then we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1067	This question, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister of Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister of Culture who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1070	‘All the chains that have opened shops on Sundays have spent millions of dollars following the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act. How does the Council of State view that one of Norway's largest companies creates a completely new and challenging competitive situation by openly breaking the law every Sunday, and that they have also announced that they will do so in the Pentecost?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1077	The question to the Minister of Industry refers to the law on public holidays and holiday peace, and that is why it belongs to my responsibility. So the question is answered by me as Minister of Culture. As I pointed out in my previous post, in response to the question from the representative of Trettebergstuen, the Holiday Act has a number of exceptions to the obligation to keep closed on Sundays and holidays for specific types of shops. There are some differences and distortions of competition between different types of shops. An exception provides for grocery stores with a total sales surface not exceeding 100 m2 to keep open on Sundays and holidays. Other grocery stores, on the other hand, must remain closed if they do not fall under one of the other exceptions in the law, such as: outlets at typical tourist sites or outlets on campsites during the camping season. As is well known, the Ministry of Culture has consulted proposals for legislative changes that could have given greater flexibility and less distortion of competition. That proposal did not receive a majority. The shops must, of course, respect the law in force, and it is not up to companies in the trade in goods to go beyond the legal framework. This applies to all actors in the industry. The competitive situation between the chains is similar in the sense that the general rule of law and the exemption rules are the same for all. There's no way to circumvent the law by using moving partitions, etc. A permanent point of sale must be a place that can be closed or locked, and as mentioned, I have announced in a meeting with the industry before the weekend that the rules of the law are clear and that the applicable rules should be followed. Until the Act of Holidays is amended, where appropriate, competition must be exercised within the current framework and the current legislation. Enforcement of opening hours is the responsibility of the police. Violation of provisions can be sanctioned and there are examples of shopkeepers who have been fined and withdrawn after police intervention. I assume that the actors in the industry are responsible, not behaving and challenging the boundaries and respecting the competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1095	Thank you for the clear response of the Council of State. As the Council of State says, on Friday there was an urgent meeting of the Council of State. The councils are quoted, and now they're saying that the law is crystal clear. According to the Council of State's statement to NTB, the actors also say that the law is not unclear or unclear, but nevertheless there is a crime. Now we're going into the Pentecost, a long weekend with a 16th of May before the 17th, and my question is, what will the Council of State actually do so that the law – with a laborer – is not broken in the long weekend? It happened the weekend we got behind us, which came after the emergency meeting where the Council of State was as clear as it is now. What concrete action will the Council of State take?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1100	As the representative refers to, I have been as clear as I can. I expect Norwegian law to be followed. That is why I also asked the individual actors who were meeting with me whether the law was difficult to understand. All confirmed that it was not. I also asked if there were examples in today's law that make it possible to interpret. There was no doubt about the interpretation of the actors present. As the Minister for Justice and Security pointed out instead, it is clear that the law must be observed. Although the government does not in any way want any authority to instruct the police, it is demanding to be passive spectators to actively challenge the law to those degrees. Then my message is that it is the Stortinget that changes laws, not actors in the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1105	Thanks for the answer. There are no examples, no interpretative will – yet we are in this situation. I now hear that both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice are talking about passive and active participation and about watching. But the government wanted liberalisation, it was the Minister of Culture and the Council of State Anundsen on the inside. That liberalisation is not a majority for now. But what's happening is a snowclad liberalisation of the law of holidays and holiday peace. Can the Council of State responsible for this sit still and look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1110	As Minister of Culture, I must be clear on which law is applicable at all times. I've been very clear on that. Then the police in Norway are investigating crimes. I see that there is a possible need to review the law, even after input from the actors – look through Sunday and holidays legislation – because the situation with people's patterns of action is constantly changing. I will come back to that, but I would like to make it clear that all actors in the food industry have to deal with the laws adopted by Stortinget. It's an expectation. And so it's that the government doesn't instruct the police or prosecution. We're clear on which law applies, and then it's up to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1115	Case No. So 2 is done. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1120	Councillor Linda C. Hofstad Helleland will transfer 12 kgl. propositions. State Council Linda C. Hofstad Helleland exceeded 12 kgl. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-11.ana.ud122e1258	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
