ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e46	Honourable co-representatives! The former SV Berge Ragnar Furre representative died on 11 January 2016, aged 78. We will remember him as one of the most prominent politicians on the left-hand side of politics in its time. Berge Furre was born in 1937 in Ryfylke, Rogaland. From the Student Team in the Labour Party, he was 21 years old at the head of the Easter uprising – against stationing American nuclear weapons in West Germany. He was then the first party secretary of the Socialist Left Party in 1961. Early in the 1970s, Furre was specially active in the People's Movement against the EEC, and the year after the people said no, he was on the list of the Socialist Election Union in Rogaland. Four years ago, the Socialist Valförbund represented the Stortinget for four years, from 1973 to 1977. He was the parliamentary leader in 1975 and 1976, and the leader of the Socialist Left Party from 1976 to 1983. At Stortinget, Furre was chairman of the Agriculture Committee, where he was in charge of a new agricultural policy. Particularly important was the Equalisation Decision, which ensures the farmer an income development in line with the industrial workers. From Stortinget he will think that he, together with Finn Gustavsen, revealed the contents of a secret stamped report on the Loran C navigation system, and got the treason of national law against him. In the fight against illegal surveillance and for openness and democracy, Furre showed great personal opposition. Later, he became a member of the Landfill Commission. Furre was the Vice President of the Nobel Committee from 2003 to 2008. The struggle for peace, disarmament and justice went like a red thread through the political life of Furre. In the 1990s he was active in the global movement of solidarity, and in particular he worked for the rights of the landless peasants in Brazil. The slogan was simple: another value is possible. Furre was a professor of theology, worked as a pastor for a period of time and had a number of jobs in the Norwegian Church. His theology and his political values had much in common. He was busy that the left side and Church had to be folk, social movements – open to everyone. He was known as a brilliant rhetorical, and received the language prize to the Norwegian Language Council for «from the use of Norwegian language». He was a honorary member of the Norwegian Goal. Furre was also a professor of history, and his books on modern Norwegian history will be standing as standard. But for Berge Furre, it didn't think to write history, he shared in creating it himself. We light peace over Berge Furre's memory. The representatives heard the President's speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e80	The representative, Mr Lene Vågslid, applied for parental leave from 19 April to 21 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Lise Wiik, is hereby invited to meet from 26 April to 17 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e98	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e101	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Micaelsen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to develop a national strategy for good nutrition for the elderly who receive care services in hospital and home care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e106	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e109	I would like to make a proposal from the representatives of Gerd Eli Berge, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself to introduce a target of 25 pst. of the overall care sector shall be organised and operated as a non-profit-making activity by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e130	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, 5 minutes are proposed to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be up to six replies from the main speakers of the parties and six replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e141	Equality is a fundamental human right. That's something the policy is going to provide, not something you're going to have to get yourself. Policies shall ensure that women and men can live as free a life as they choose. Norway is high at gender equality statistics. It's not random, and it didn't come of itself. We've had politicians who realized that equality pays off, not just for individuals in terms of increased freedom, but for all of us, for businesses and businesses, for society as a whole. These politicians took political choices that led us to the top of the statistics step by step, reform of reform – steps and reforms on the right side strangled and fought against each time. We got women into formal working life by setting up the policy. Welfare schemes allowed us to get women to work, which in turn allowed us to afford more well-being — with part-time jobs, with parental leave, later fatherhood allowances, with kindergarten development and a work environment law that, in total, allowed women and men to combine family life with work. Norway also became one of the richest countries in the world. Our women's participation in working life is worth more than our oil wealth. And we politicians, we can all adorn ourselves with these statistics on tour abroad, where everyone else looks at Norway and our political grips that have made us one of the world's richest and most like-minded countries. Our own equality minister was a while ago on the road in the United States and was cheered when she told me about babysitting Norwegian fathers and the positive effect of the Norwegian federal quota. It doesn't keep sung abroad when you don't work for more equality at home. Immediately after receiving this jubilee, Minister for Gender Equality, Horne told the Newspaper: Personally, I am against all kinds of allowances. It's a little bit like taking credit for Barcelona winning the Champions League because you have an old Messi suit lying in the closet, while you're really cheering on Real Madrid. The equality did not come about by itself. Just as little is it given forever. It requires a targeted and active political effort to maintain and increase it. Because we have enough of the challenges before we are in the target, including in the gender equality country of Norway. We're still not there that mom and dad are seen as just as good caregivers. Kindergartens call mom pretty much when the child is sick. Many fathers feel that they are not allowed to take out the papers but they themselves want to take out. Pregnant girls are discriminated against in the workplace and in addition because they are pregnant. Many experience sexual harassment in school. Still, women only earn $85 for every hundredfold of men serve. This list could unfortunately be much longer. The fact that we have one of the world's best equality laws and formal rights does not mean that we have equal opportunities in practice. Too many of the small and large choices we make are governed by the fact that there are different expectations for women and men. That is why the Labour Party wants to move forward. Eight years of red-green equality policy produced results. The proportion of part-time workers went down and continues to fall due to our efforts and legislative changes. We equated shifts and tours, changed the work environment law in a more family-friendly direction, extended kindergartens with maximum prices to all, which allowed people to afford, increased the father's quota and strengthened the opportunities for those who do the job of achieving equality – those who work with the ombudsman, those who work in the organisations, those who work at the equality centres, and we had a massive effort against violence in close relationships. But we wanted to move on. In 2013, we presented a big message that pointed to where we have challenges, and concrete actions that would get us there. We were many who warned against a blue-blue government because of the consequences it could have for equality policy. We can say with our hand on the heart that the blue-blue has gone beyond what we dared imagine, in their suggestions. The first thing that happened was that the staging message was pulled. The government was supposed to make its own gender equality message – a better one. Then it was quiet – for two years. But every single day in the meantime, this government has demonstrated its real equality policy and put equality in reverses by cutting in and removing what has worked, the grips that have proven to have made us one of the world's most equal countries. We remember all the discussion about the right of reservation, cut in the father's quota, longer nursery cows and higher prices, increased cash support and a weakened working environment law that makes it more difficult for many women and men to combine working life with family life. Proposals to abolish the Equality Act and to cut wings of the Ombudsman. This list could unfortunately have been longer. Step by step, action by this government puts equality in reverse and gives women and men less freedom to choose equally. And the freedom of choice is funny enough to make this happen, it's a misunderstanding that people choose freely in a vacuum. The choices we make are made within some frameworks and expectations. Why else is it that girls become nurses and men mechanics, that women work part-time, while men struggle to take out paperwork? Politics has to be set up, it doesn't have to make demands for people to take care of themselves. The working party is set up, and we want to move on. The message presented last October is a fine copy of our message when it comes to analysing the challenges we have. Two years could not have been spent on this message, with clips and clips of analysis. Moreover, the action strand may not have taken a very long time, because there are no measures there that will bring about equality. It is therefore strange that we have a government that has recognised that we have areas of gender equality challenges, but that will not do anything about it. The working party has therefore done the job that the government will not do. We have taken the job of finding the measures that can do something about the obstacles in the areas we are facing challenges. On 8 March we launched 50 proposals for a more offensive gender equality policy. In the setting of the message we handle today, we promote most of them. If we are to move on and give women and men greater freedom to live as they please, it must take action. Then someone has to have as a job to make sure to promote equality where people live. Therefore, we strengthen the equality centres and the Ombudsman and give them more power in their role. That's why we put more power in tripartite cooperation, strengthens what we know works best. That's why we're making working life more equal. Therefore, young people need to be encouraged to choose untraditionally, for example. with tools such as credits and scholarships. That's why we want mentors for them at gender-divided educations. We strengthen the work against sexual harassment and violence in close relationships. And we believe that more needs to be done to solve the gender equality challenges. It's been 20 years since the last human selection – it's time for a new one. We want business to choose women from all sides. That is why we are demanding representation in electoral committees, in the ownership principles and believe that the state and government must have greater ambitions for women's top executives in companies and in the public sector. We believe Norway needs to follow up its international commitments and strengthen equality in development and foreign policy. The Labour Party wants an entirely equal country, a country where each of us can take the choices we think are right for us. Then we need measures that can do something about it. I choose to believe that the government shares that desire. The difference between us is that the Workers' Party is willing to do something about it. I am very pleased that the debate today is going to show that the Right Party and the Advance Party are being parked by a common opposition, because the majority of the population today agree that we need more active policies to give people more freedom and women and men more equal opportunities. The Workers' Party is supported by a large number of its proposals. We are also pleased to say that we support many of the proposals that the Central Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the SV are going to put forward as solutions today, and that today we can really say that a common opposition says that enough is enough, we are tired of a government that puts equality in reverse – now we park them in the Storting and lay the foundation for a more offensive equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e165	The representative Trettebergstien has been tough in his criticism of this message. Everything from important things such as the choice of premises for press conferences to the lack of action in the notification has been duly criticised. In particular, the number of interventions has been highlighted as one of the weakest areas. In order to remedy this situation, 50 measures have been put forward themselves, which they say are the exact amount that is needed to make our country more equal. I'm not so busy with the number, I, but when the criticism became so hard, I became curious, so I sat down a late night hour and started counting the number of actions related to the message that we have submitted, and I came up with 70 active actions. On what basis has the representative Trettebergstuen found out that there are no measures related to the notification, and does she agree that she should have read the notification before letting the calculator Feminism take its upper hand?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e174	I can assure the representative barrels that I have read the message. It didn't take very long. I've read it several times. It's very good at analysis, there's clips and glues from the big message that the Stoltenberg government put forward. The more strange it is that it is without measures that will do something about equality. It is full of measures already in place, actions undertaken by the red-green government, or actions in other fields under preparation. However, when one boasts that the changes in the Working Environment Act are a gender equality measure, it is at the limit of frekt, as a collective trade union movement went on a general strike against these changes. It's not an equality measure. It is not just the Workers' Party who believe that this message is without action. The evening post, Unio, LO, gender equality researchers – all in the real world – believe that this gender equality message is too weak. Only the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party believe that this message is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e181	I did not get an answer to my question. I have read the message, and it contains more than 70 active actions, actions to be implemented, and actions to be implemented. I understand that there can be disagreement in the measures – that is law – but the representative says that there are no measures, and there are indeed 70 measures. So my question is still: have you read the message, and have you seen the actions in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e186	Yes, I have read the message, and we have looked for measures, and we find none. When the government boasts that HPV vaccination for girls is a gender equality measure, it is a fine measure of women’s health, but it is not a gender equality measure and it is not a new measure because it has been introduced. As I mentioned in my previous post, it is not that people out there in the real world feel that the government's weakening of the work environment law is good for equality. On the contrary, there was a general strike here in the country for the first time in 16 years because people who know where the shoe prints believe that this government's employment policy makes it more difficult for women and men to combine working life with family life. As I said, it is not just the Workers' Party – and now an overall opposition – who believes that this message is too weak. The evening post has said it in the lead position. Unio, LO, Spekter and Norway’s leading equality researchers believe that this message is not sufficient. One must, as I said, be from the Progress Party and the Right to claim that this message will have an effect on equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e195	Yes, this message has been submitted by the Progress Party and the Right column. We are very pleased about that. So the labor party spent eight years, and nothing came out of it. So we're happy to be able to help, so they can come up with their suggestions. It's very positive. So that's one of the suggestions I want to come up with. It is this that they want – together with the Christian People's Party – a proprietary tripartite collaboration for increasing equality. This is actually already established, in 2014. Is it so to understand that the Labour Party is not satisfied with the tripartite cooperation and their work for equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e202	Eight years of red-green intervention are still marked on gender equality statistics. We worked for equality every day. We did not wait for two years before presenting a communication with measures, as this government has done – waiting for two years and every day put equality in reverse. We wanted to move on. But I am pleased that the representative Reiertsen is presenting the proposal for tripartite cooperation, because we just have the faith to do more of what we know works. We know that reforms and policy solutions are best found within the framework of tripartite cooperation. I wonder whether the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party have not read the equality study, that is, the NOU from the Skjeie Committee, where they are just pointing out that their own tripartite cooperation for equality must be established. This government has not. We want the parties together to gain power and authority and to commit to work for increased equality in society, according to the model of the IA agreement, which we know has worked well when it's going to bring down sick leave and create inclusive working lives. That's not what this government has done. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e211	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e215	The left recognises many of the measures contained in the notification. Then, during the day, we will agree with the Workers' Party in many proposals. We'll go further, we'll go, for example. use allowances actively, as an example. I'm glad the representative of the Trettebergstuen drew up a human selection. We have to discuss the participation of both genders here, as well as that we want a third gender – I won't include that in this line. The left recently promoted a proposal to look at gender-neutral titles in the health sector. There are no other parties that support our doing. It's a big sector that organizes hundreds of thousands, and we see an education and a recruitment to the professions that are still very women-dominated. The titles have something to say. We have five male health sisters in Norway — three in high school. How does the Workers' Party perceive that one will ensure more equal recruitment for this important sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e226	I like the question. Just recruiting more men into women-dominated professions is one of our main challenges in the future. The message is good at describing the problem, but has no action that will do anything about it. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Left, when we vote today, will come together on many good and concrete proposals to get it done – everything from doing something about the educational cycle, stimulating more people to choose untraditionally, by extra or equal opportunities scholarships – and ask the government to come back with a concrete plan on how to get more men into the care professions. When it comes to titulating those who work in these professions, I am absolutely sure that the Labour Party and the Left can also agree to change it in such a way that it becomes more attractive for men to choose these professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e235	The Workers' Party has a good proposal to increase appropriations for non-governmental organisations in the field of gender equality. It's music in the ears of the Christian People's Party. We cannot vote for it today – we have to come back to such types of proposals in the context of the budgetary procedure for the autumn. But can the Labour Party say a little about its justification for this proposal, about why exactly the civil sector, the voluntary organisations, are so significant both in this area and in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e240	The representative Confessor is concerned about something essential. Without organisations, without the women's movement in all its diversity, Norway would not have been the equality country we are today. The organisations that work every day out there where people live to guide people in their rights, to influence us politicians to increase those rights – yes, they play a crucial role, like watchbitches and pushers and to give us an idea of where the shoe prints. We believe that they need to have the opportunity to do more. That's why it's absolutely fundamental for the Workers' Party that we need to strengthen civil society and those organisations that work every single day out there to get people more equal. We also want those who work in the Ombudsman, and in the equality centres, who work right away, to have the opportunity to do more, and there I am very, very happy that the Christian People's Party and the opposition agree with us. If we are to move on, civil society must... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e245	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e248	There are two things in the post of the representative Trettebergstien that I want to clarify. One is that the representative said that there is a lot that is good, but it is a while before we are in the goal of gender equality policy. I wonder, when are you going to make it? I think the Right Party and the Advance Party think that there is a running process – a work that is going on continuously – and nothing we can get out of here and say, "That's how we were in goal! But it should be interesting to hear where the goal is, and when we reach it. The other one goes on the count. Everything has to be counted and quantified, it has to be quotad rather than recruited, it has to be broken down into percentages, etc. And here it was problematic that kindergarten calls the mother – and that's obviously a problem. First, why is this a problem? Secondly, how do you regulate and count the phones from kindergarten to parents, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e255	The representative Eidem Løvaas is right in that, we never get into the goal of equality. As long as someone in Norway experiences impunity and can't live their lives as they want because they face obstacles because they're men or women, we're not in goal. That's what's the point of the Workers' Party too. We need a continuous development of gender equality policy and a struggle to achieve it. That's where the government separates and we separate. Where we want to go on with concrete proposals to bring about equality in people's lives, this government puts equality in reverse. When it comes to mothers being called from kindergarten, it's not a problem in itself, but it says something about how society views mother and father as caregivers. We have not come to the conclusion that men are seen as equally worthy caregivers like women, and despite the fact that the Right will not do anything about it either when it comes to Dad's quota or other things, I hope that you – and the representative Eidem Løvaas – agree that it must be a goal for us politicians that fathers should also take an equal share of care for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e262	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e265	I can at least say that we are very equal in our family, because it was my husband who delivered today – without pyjamas to pyjamas in kindergarten. And it's probably he who gets called to, too, during the day. But don't do that. On the way to kindergarten this day, the four-year-old had a long playoff about his potential career choices in the future. Certainly it was this time that dolphin trainers and nurses were the tallest. I was wondering where this was since the last conversation with a pet doctor and a human doctor, but then it became clear that she had no intention of choosing, because as she said to me: Mom, I can become what I want, so. As the good mother teacher I am, of course I replied: Yes, of course, my friend, if you work hard, you can be whatever you want. Yes, she answered, and then she added, a little irritating: but not mermaid, then, mother, for then you must have magic drink. She's a pretty common four-year-old. She loves princesses, pink, Winx Club and Monster High and has the belief that she can be just what she wants – yes, except mermaids. How do we make sure that she gets the opportunity to fulfill her dreams without greater challenges than a lack of magic drink again and again? For me, this message is about. No matter who we are, where we come from, whether we are men or women, we should not only have equal rights, but also equal opportunities to fulfill our dreams. The government has chosen to focus its efforts on five areas where there are still clear gender equality challenges: violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health, business and entrepreneurship; Too often women experience the unimaginable. The pleasant journey of the city ends in a nightmare, the safe home changes to a war zone, the safe growth is made insecure. Women fight more, are raped more often, and we are also more vulnerable as children. According to official figures, most men beat, but this isn't a black and white image. Violence in close relationships affects men and children, and there are also women who practice violence. I am pleased that we are now strengthening the police – we must prevent violence, but also take those who are violating it. I think it's okay for us to have increased the penalties somewhat, especially by the fact that the government got ahead of the introduction of the new penal code. We are strengthening local crisis centres for particularly vulnerable groups. Alternatives to violence and family protection offices work more preventively, and we work with the competence and quality of child protection. My little girl believes firmly that she can be whatever she wants – and she can, as long as she works hard. Nevertheless, we know that she will be subject to great influence in growth. Had she been a boy, she had had a great risk of dropping out of high school. And we know that in the growing up, a meeting of most women on the way up in the educational cycle. Therefore, it is important to work for women and men to choose education by heart and head, not by sex and by expectations of others. We need more men in kindergartens and in primary schools. Therefore, it is important that the message highlights that we are working on the quality, competence and recruitment of men for the educational work. Norway is at the top in terms of occupational participation for both women and men. At the same time, our labour market has clear distinctions in terms of gender. This leads to little flexibility in the labour market and may create limits for individual and non-diversity. Everyone has to choose what they're going to be, but it's important that, as a society, we facilitate and sometimes encourage different choices. An example of this is working to get more women to choose real science through girls and technology. Norway is a leading country in combining work and family life. Nevertheless, too many people experience coming back to jobs, on leave, which is not exactly what they were when they left them, because many dreams are shattered by employers who cannot or will not know the legislation on protection. It is therefore important that we finally investigate the enforcement apparatus of the future. It's important to be right, but even more important is to get right. Meeting an equivalent health service regardless of gender is a fundamental right. It is important that good knowledge is available on, for example: differences in symptoms of equal disease between women and men. Women have more sick leave than men. So far, no good answer has been given as to why it is. It is therefore important that a Joint Committee considers that more attention should be paid to research that could give us the opportunity to put action in place at the appropriate sites. Norway is entering a new era. We're still going to live off the oil, but we need more legs to stand on. I tend to say to children and young people I meet, that what Norway will live on in the future is the ones to invent. It is then important that good ideas from all over the population are well managed. We therefore look forward to the Founding Plan, which will also include measures to give a greater diversity of talents a chance to create tomorrow's business. For a long time, the right has believed that today’s protection against discrimination is widespread and not comprehensive. That is why we look forward to the proposal for a common law on discrimination, which will be discussed. A common law will make it easier to see the grounds for discrimination in context and may raise awareness of this. The legislative proposal takes account of the fact that men also face gender equality challenges. The proposal proposes, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t clarifying the strict protection against discrimination against pregnancy, making it clear that complex discrimination is prohibited to give extended access to positive specific treatment for men to replace the bureaucratic and less effective obligation to make representations with positive measures such as information, dissemination of good experience and development of competences to concreteise the obligation of activity, in order to clarify for employers what they need to do to comply with the obligation to work actively in order to promote equality; This matter has not been dealt with by the government, and we await the final proposal. I started this article by saying that it is important to create a society where everyone can reach their dreams. Norway is an equal country, but as the notification shows, we also face challenges. The Communication chapter on gender equality challenges in other countries puts our challenges in perspective. We should be proud of what Norway is doing to promote equality and equality beyond our own borders. Norway is an equal country, but the challenges are there. When a lenner can go out and recommend long underpants – or chastity belts, as we will call it – against rape, when a company recruits enough a man and owes it to not some well-qualified women out there, despite the fact that all numbers from higher education show something else, when another woman comes back from maternity leave and finds that her job is organized away, it shows that we are not quite in goal. I am looking forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e338	Unfortunately, it is the case in the gender equality country of Norway today that small girls who want to become mermaids later meet a brutal reality where they realize that they are not, in fact, as equal as they have been told that they are. That's why we need an active gender equality policy – to move on. This government has provided a message that is good for descriptions, but does nothing about it. I record that the representative Tønder uses a large part of his post to talk about a bill that has now been consulted – and which is not part of this communication – and is trying to justify that this government does not have any measures to bring equality forward in Norway with the fact that it is worse in all other countries. But leave it. When the message was presented, it was not only the Workers' Party that responded. «Historical actionless» said Unio. 'Unclear equality message', wrote the Evening Post. "So bad that it should never have been written," said Left. ‘Where are the instruments?’ said Specter and LO. ‘No bet’, said the Equality Ombudsman. The representatives of the Right in the Committee have found no reason to support one of the tens of proposals that are being promoted today. Does the representative still feel that the message is good enough – despite the massive resistance that exists in the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e350	First of all, I want to make it clear that you need magic to become a mermaid. It's clear that you meet a tough world out there, and we're actually going to rust our kids through a good schoolwork and a good kindergarten, which we're also working on -- quality in kindergarten, more men in, higher quality, etc. We're going to equip them to meet this, because if we don't equip them to meet this, we'll never – I think – see real equality. We need to have a change of mind. Fortunately, we see that it happens – slowly, but surely. I disagree that there are no measures in the message. There are over 70 measures in the Communication. And it's good that there's disagreement, because that means we get equality on the agenda, and we get good, tough debates about equality and equality. I am very pleased about that, and I like to be in the storm of this message, because I believe it provides a good basis for the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e359	I think the answer to the representative barrels reveals what is Right ideology and therefore strategy. It's about attitudes, and it's going slowly, but surely in the right direction. Yes, this government, as a strategy of equality policy, has to wait and see, that it should be done by itself, but equality does not come about by itself. If the representative's daughter and other younger girls today are to live and grow up in a society where they really have equal opportunities as men, we need a more active policy. I am pleased that the representative Tønder is proud of the announcement made by the government, but it is strange that it is only the Right and the Advance Party who believe that this communication will bring about equality. Everyone else, all at the hearing in the Committee, said that this communication does not meet its objectives. Equality Ombudsman, gender equality researchers, Specter, LO, UNIO – everyone thinks it is inconclusive. If the representative barrels are committed to progressing in equality — why has it not been found to support one of the nearly 60 measures promoted by the opposition today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e368	Firstly, a great many of the measures promoted by the opposition are already in the message, so open doors are being opened. Some of it has already been completed. When it comes to quota, I disagree, and the blue-blue disagree. We believe that it is unfair, and even if the unfair is done for the good, it is still unfair. So there we disagree. I respect that others have different opinions than me, but I believe that this is unfair, and that is what the communication also means, therefore we do not go into those measures. And as I said, there are open doors, it's in the message, and I don't have the habit of voting twice on the same measures. Of course, the over 70 measures contained in the communication are going to go further, as well as a number of others, which we have already made clear in our remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e375	I would like to point out that the message has some good comments about how important it is to get more male employees in the nursery. It is great that the government will increase the competence for equality in kindergarten and increase the recruitment of men for educational work. In 2014 was 8,5 pst. by the employees of the nursery men. The comfort for some may be that the proportion is lower in Sweden. There it is at 3.5 pst. In Norway, I believe that we still have a way to get more men into kindergarten. My question to the Right is: How does the Right see the way forward in that area, and what kind of action does it take to get more men into the kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e382	At least we share the problem, and then I shouldn't say I have the eucalyptus. I think that's wrong. We have to remember, when Tritenbergstien says that they have such an offensive equality policy, that they spent eight years on their equality message as well as submitting it with the same issues that we've done, just before they left the government. This is an ongoing work. We have to work with skills measures, we have to work to make it even more attractive to work in kindergarten for both women and men, and we have to work to increase quality. So I think we're slow, but I'm sure we'll see a change. But I have no concrete examples of measures, other than proposing quotas, which I do not want to do, because I think it is an unfair way to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e389	There may be a magic drink to become a mermaid, but ‘there are no pills against mutilated water’ or for a perfect equality policy. There is only hard work and policy measures that apply. That's why I'm glad that the representative barrels spent time in his speech talking about the different experiences we have as boys and girls, and as women and men, related to expectations, sexual harassment and violence. More than half of all girls experience sexual harassment during life — unwanted attention around sex, body and sexuality, getting dressed against their will, called for whore and in extreme consequence raped. Therefore, SV today proposes a nationwide multi-annual effort to combat sexual harassment in school. I would like to hear the representative Tønder's thoughts around it, and if there might be something for the Right to support, so that the young girls and boys of the future can get a different everyday life from what we've seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e394	The representative raises an important issue. I think that when you work at school against bullying, when you work with attitude-creating work, when you look at the more comprehensive thing about lifelong learning, I would say that it would be natural to take this into school as a topic to talk to children and young people about. I expect the school to do that. At least I know that many schools work well with this through different types of programs. Having said that, I think that SV's proposal only goes in one form, and I think it's more important to look at attitude work, to look at the whole thing -- to create strong people, who can actually stand in the storm when it comes to saying no, or even knowing that what they're doing is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e401	I think it's important to call things by their real name. When we talk about lifelong learning, it can contain everything and nothing. One problem between the sexes, the bullying at school, the sexual harassment, is that it just hasn't been called by its name, it hasn't been caught up in. On the contrary, many students feel that flirting is being explained away, that there is a way to get in touch with the opposite sex. We also know, along with statistics on attention in classrooms and at school, that it's a pretty school day. Then we have to have targeted efforts. Another topic that is in the same street concerns adult girls and the question of combating violence against women. I am very pleased that there is a proposal for voting today to strengthen the crisis centres. I wonder if the representative, Mr Tønder and Mr Right, can agree to this and see the need to strengthen the fight against violence as well as for victims of violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e408	Strengthening crisis centres is actively pursued, helping to settle after leaving crisis centres – more funding has been put in for it – and looking at post-crisis protection. So back to the follow-up to the first question. Yes, a life-student can mean everything – and so is, I would say. Getting ready to meet a tough world is also about getting ready to deal with those who don't want you well. It is also about giving notice to those who do not want you well, that this is completely unacceptable. I think that those attitudes are important that we get into young age. I think it's great that you also work with this in kindergarten, that you start there already. And I fully agree with the representative that things should be called by their real name – harassment, rape, that domestic violence is not housewreck, etc. I am very concerned about it, and I am pleased that the representative agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e415	When you can become a mermaid, you become a review theme in the gender equality debate, we realize that we have something to go on to get a little bit further. Mette barrels find reason to point out that you need a magic formula in order to become a mermaid. Yes, with the government's lack of action, we obviously need the magic drink and the magic formula to move on. Another and perhaps more performance-promoting method could be to vote for the opposition's many proposals, which could lead us a few steps further in the right direction to achieve more equality. But it refuses the government parties to do, and thus they believe that equality should still be just a private matter. Why is it that government parties refuse to recognise the structural barriers to equality and refuse to listen to others but themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e424	Since we're in a gender equality debate, I'm sure the representative can become a mariner, so it's going to be okay. How it became a continuous theme is probably just because sometimes it can be a little exciting to have some good points up here. But I can actually put the question back again: why do you not want to put behind the 70 good, concrete proposals that are already in the communication? Why are you so busy telling me that we don't do anything? That we don't recognise the structural is completely wrong. That means you can't have read this message well enough, I think. So there's going to be almost one question back – but we'll have to take another day – about why the Workers' Party is not behind the nearly 70 proposals in the Communication, which are good and implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e437	Life begins with a girl and a boy. Already at birth, biology creates a little bit of curly in the similarity mindset. We know that the child naturally ties to the mother in the first year, whether it's a girl or a good. It is actually biology that governs: woman gives birth, and woman breast-feeds. We have to assume that biology may also make Mom and Dad as well as they do. These are realities. The family in which the child grows up has a great responsibility for the small person to grow up – responsibilities in many areas, where equality can also be an important interaction factor for parents. But further, as a society, we can make it possible for girls or good people to make choices based on their interests and dreams. There are many options, but they have to be selected twice. The gender equality message focuses on the challenges we face in Norway. Reference is made to five challenges: growth and education, working life, health, business and protection against violence. In addition, the message addresses Norway's work on gender equality internationally, ensuring a human perspective and a migrant perspective. The growth of the little child and the meeting with society as an individual often begin in kindergarten. They have a great responsibility to take care of the child, whether it's a good or a girl, both in a caring context, and also in a gender perspective. Does it give you a choice where there are options open, without having sex related? Therefore, it is important that one also has a good gender balance among those added to kindergartens. For this reason, the government wants to increase the competence for equality in kindergarten and to increase the recruitment of men in educational work. Many kindergartens cooperate with youth schools, where boys are placed in kindergartens as work practices. Feedbacks show that this is very positive for both the kindergarten and the school students. Just to have mentioned it, the proportion of men working in kindergarten has gone up from 8.7 pst. to 9.5 pst. the last year, and it happens when the Right Party and the Advance Party govern the country. I mean, this might be the way to go. Let the boys, who are missing from the different education and working practices, try to — and, if not, let the girls try. There you have to start: give them a chance and a chance. Tomorrow, the deadline for applying for higher education will expire. Many young people are faced with an important choice for further education and work. Most youths today feel that they have the best basis for choosing what they want, whether they are girls or boys. But we see clearly that what happens in society around us also affects the choices of young people. This is not so easy to do with. Not enough back in time to see that the boys were in multiples, for example. in medical training, but it has turned all the way down in today's society, and one now finds most women there. These developments have been desired, but I see that there are now many questions about whether to make changes, so that a better gender balance can be achieved in different areas. There are several educational courses where the gender balance has changed in recent years. The government is aware of this. For example, a wish. å recruiting several girls for real education through girls and technology to review the supply structure of continuing training further develop the web portal education.no assess further development of teaching materials and materials for use in the counsellor training evaluations supported to the college networks for counsellor training strengthen the knowledge base on gender differences in learning outcomes, degree of implementation and educational choices; There is also reason to look at the choices you make according to the needs of the labour market at any given time. Looking at the South and Western countries, where there is currently a great deal of unemployment among those working in the oil sector, one may find that many young people may choose more from reason and security than from dreams when choosing education, especially in this part of the country. Then it is important that we, as parents, the advisory services and society in general, support young people's choices based on their interests and dreams. They should, after all, be happy in the professions they work well. Although unemployment is high in some areas today, the needs will be there in the future. We don't have to forget that for the most part. After education, women and men are ready for work. It's important that we have a working life that reflects both sexes on all the workplaces. Unfortunately, it is still the case that guts dominate the construction industry, and girls dominate the health sector. This can create limits for individuals and for society. We know that being able to support themselves is of great social value for equality, and when women choose a profession where part-time work is the first they meet in the world of work, the equality value and the possibility of self-sufficiency disappear. Fortunately, part-time work is on the way down. This is due to good social communication, the different organisations have focused on this and made demands, and the municipalities are more aware of this challenge and offer more than 100 pst. settings. It's still working on one. I am pleased that the government wants an active and holistic policy for increased employment and an open, inclusive and flexible working life. The government wants to make it possible for the family to make their own choices about work and family life. Therefore, I look forward to the great news of family life. The government will further develop tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities in employment. This platform is a good starting point for further cooperation between the authorities and the social partners. Sickness absence, working environment, more full-time work and less part-time work are some focus areas that one should have as a good area of action. Health is important for both women and men. Good health is investment in own life, but one also sees that this area is not well lit, especially in terms of female health. When we also know that absenteeism among women is much higher than that among men, it is important that we find out and not least do something about all the factors that affect this. The government is deliberately working to achieve the objective of equivalent health and care conditions. Research on women’s health, working life and the health of minority women is the focus of the Norwegian Research Council. One would like to increase the knowledge of undesirable differences between women and men from a life-cycle perspective. The government will ensure better prevention, diagnosis, treatment and control of diseases. Today's society is in transition in many areas of work, and we need both women and men to think about new and to turn our own and other jobs into new industries. There's high employment among women in Norway, but despite that, there are women in minorities like leaders and entrepreneurs. Here's one on the right track, because I refuse to believe that there is a lack of knowledge, competence or personal property that explains this difference. For this reason, actions such as the Founding Plan, which specifically focuses on women, are very important. The research in this area is also carried out by the government. The government will also take the initiative of a distribution programme that examines the differences in the proportion of women in senior positions between different sectors, and reasons for doing so. Following up ownership messages is also an important contribution to change when it comes to women leaders. The government delivers in the field of equality and will continue to do so in its further work – not bombastic and overwhelming, but listening and respecting individuals and family choices. Finally, I would like to point out that the Right and the Advance Party support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e499	I record that neither Mette Tønder nor Laila Marie Reiertsen spent their entire speaking time. It was materially left before they gave up, and it may be representative of the content of the message as well. Here it's a little new. The Progress Party likes to boast about how far Norway as a gender equality nation has come, but they have been opponents of almost all the measures that have made Norway where we are today. It's like taking credit for the beautiful common area of the housing layer without ever setting it up. No one likes such neighbors. On the watch of this government, the pay gap between women and men has increased, the work environment law has weakened, the paper has been cut, and child care prices have increased. Not only do they refuse to set up hard work, they fasten and rotate, so that there is more to clean up for the others. Everything in the Reiertsen estimate was largely observations or actions undertaken a long time ago. When is the Progress Party going to take responsibility instead of just being a spectator?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e508	That's the responsibility of being in a government that needs to look at costs, look at possibilities, look at the developments this society is about to enter. That is why we are taking responsibility for it in the context of the budget. Many of our suggestions that we're already on, they're on the go, they're on the go. It's very much about it. I wonder what the future budget of the Labour Party will look like when it comes to its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e513	As Anette Trettebergstien pointed to in his article, we believe that equality is good for Norwegian society. It's also giving Norwegian society substantial incomes, so we have good coverage for that. I registered that Laila Marie Reiertsen started his post by pointing to biology, and that might explain why we do not have equality in many fields. But then I'm tempted to ask if that's how Reiertsen thinks it's because of biology that women work more than men part-time, and that men are less than women at home and have parental leave. Of course it's not like that. It is due to lack of action, structural barriers and different expectations of women and men. That is why in this House, from the political point of view, we have a great responsibility to help more people get the opportunity to make the choices they want themselves. Why is it that the Advance Party always stands on its backs in such processes, and believes that this should only be left to each individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e522	If the representative heard what I said, I'm talking about biology for the first year after the baby was born. There's not much to do when it comes to part-time, because they're not at work, because most people have maternity leave. When we got to work – the representative talked about part-time – we were actually in the Progress Party and supported a project to get more people to not work part-time, a few years ago. We were actually positive about that, and we were also supportive. You can find a way back in the minutes. We see a job done when it comes to part-time out in society, in the municipalities, in the public sector and in the state. They're working on this, and they're getting good solutions. So the part-time frequency goes down, and we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e529	Part of the cooperation agreement was that we were going to reduce the feed quota to ten weeks, and I'm not going to challenge it, because that was part of the cooperation agreement. But it turns out that reducing the birth rate to ten weeks makes it very many men now just taking out the ten weeks, and that now it's what's the birth rate. Such things impress me. My question is: does it also impress the representative Reiertsen? And as a follow-up: is it still the primary policy of the Progress Party that the spring quota should be abolished, because equality in Norway has come so far that it is no longer needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e534	And we're also going to go with statistics and what's going on. I see from the statistics that there are several men who take longer leave, and that possibility has one. One can actually get 26 weeks that one can distribute equally between fathers and mothers. I thought the paperwork had to be here. Now I'm talking personally. Mother and father should have the same opportunities to be home, but we have a job to do with the culture around the workplace. I'm a little bit more concerned that culture becomes so that if you want paperwork, you should of course get it. If you want more paperwork, we also have to set it up for you. That is the communication that is often missing, because we see that in some professional groups there is something that is not talking about. And we can't have it like that. There's a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e539	I think we recently witnessed a little bit of a polite relationship with statistics and research on the part of the Progress Party, if the claim is that more dads take out more leave when the Dad quota is cut. I have not registered that the SSB shares the reality of the party here, and I wonder where those numbers come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e544	At least that's what I've got. It may happen that I am wrong, and then I am very sorry. But when it comes to paper, I also think that we're more concerned about the family well, and that we have to respect that. I think we should give this a little bit more time. The fact that we've gone down a little bit on the weeks, I see, and it's a problem, and we see that this is going to stay on, we have to take it seriously. And then we might have to think about it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e550	In that case, it is gratifying to hear. The representative Reiertsen said in his post that maybe it was biology that makes people choose what they do. If it is not the case that there are biologically based components that determine our choices, but perhaps the environment, experience, interests and being given real opportunities, and if it is the case that the Progress Party also shares SV's visions of a less gender-based working life, could it be that the representative Reiertsen and the Progress Party can support SV's proposal to assess a support scheme for the establishment of technical centres, in order to provide young people with more and less gender-based experience during schooling – then perhaps we will strengthen girls' experience of technology and also in the long term boys' experience of care?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e557	There was a lot of jump and jump here. When it concerns biology, I was busy with the first year, I just have to say that again. There's a recognition that everyone in this room should take over. We know that there are women who give birth, and we know that there are women who are breast-feeding – that simple. So the representative pulled something in with school and further training. I think we're getting pretty far. I'm just looking at my own daughter. I'm very high and very proud of her. She has chosen technology as further education for the labour market. That's what I thought was positive. And it's because it has our people who have stood up and said that you have to choose this, it's important, you have the possibilities, there's nothing that prevents you from choosing this if that's what you care about. But it's just as important for these kids to be happy. And to this with technology, it's probably very positive with the center that the representative is talking about, but in that case we have to look at it in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e566	It is no new thing that the Progress Party is against quotas that work – that they are against gender quota in public governments and councils and in business, and that they are against the Dad quota, so that men can take out cardboard. The only quota I can see that the Advance Party is in favour of is an increased tax-free quota. When it's like fathers taking out the father's quota and not much more, it's because we're still not there that women and men are considered to be equivalent caregivers. We also see that when the government cut the father's quota from 14 to 10 weeks, the number of weeks the fathers take out goes down. That shows the numbers' clear speech. When the NHO and the LO and everything that can crawl and walk by organizations, and the fathers themselves, were against it, and beg and fight to get a bigger father's quota, it's all about the need for men to be allowed to take more of care at home. What would the representative Reiertsen say to all the fathers who feel that they are not allowed to take out the paper commission they want because their mother does not want the leave itself or the employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e575	I'm not going to tell you so much about the quotas, because it's not worth this debate – when we mix in allowances that don't have anything to do here. First of all, when it comes to the paper itself, we need to be aware that Dad can take out much more than the weeks that lie there today. That's the full possibility, both for him and for the one he's living with. It's the one. The other thing, as I said before, is that we have a lot to pick up on good communication, that we get to communicate it out to employers, not least, both private and public, for both places, we see. We get messages that one should have taken out more, but that there's no culture for it at the workplace. There's a job to do. I admit that, but then we might also have to be good at focusing more on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e587	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Stortinget is today discussing a comprehensive report on gender equality policy. For the Christian People's Party, equality is part of the concept of human dignity. Women and men have equal value. We're all going to have the same opportunities to participate in society and influence social development. Yes, we have come a long way in Norway in 2016 in terms of gender equality, but we are not in target. Many people continue to experience that their opportunities are limited because of gender. It's not okay. The communication contains good analyses and descriptions of the need for equality, because it is a human right, a social value and part of Norwegian identity. It is good that the government in the Communication recognises the major gender equality challenges we face. As a centre party, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to present our equality policy, which to some extent coincides with the policy of our colleagues in the Committee, on both sides. However, our voice is somewhat different and does not always fit into the very two-part debate between the right and the left, and it is quite natural – the Christian People's Party is a centre party. As a constructive opposition party, it has been important for us to recognise what the government is doing that is good in the field, while also promoting proposals for measures that can bring about equality. We believe that this contributes, through the landfilling process, with an even greater ambition and further concreteisation. When we acknowledge the efforts of the government, we mean, for example. that it is good that the government is actively working on the fight against violence in close relations, we look forward to the government's proposal for the escalation plan here, and we commend the government for having announced better systems for the enforcement of discrimination legislation, to mention something. The Christian People's Party has a proud party history in the gender equality field with Valgerd Svarstad Haugland as Minister for Gender Equality. She was considered radical, and it was probably the most because she showed the will to use political instruments in the field. She made sure that educational institutions got better conditions to practice radical sex quotaing, she got legal protection against sexual harassment, and it was Valgerd who, together with Laila Davay, started the process that secured several women into the Norwegian boardroom. In addition, she made the proposal which extended the principle of equal pay for equal work, ensuring that the right to equal pay for equal work can be exercised across trade boundaries and collective agreements, which has meant a great deal in the fight for equal pay. Valgerd was radical, brave and wise. She made sure that equal opportunities not only existed on paper, she seized to make equal opportunities a reality for women as well. It's important that we don't take the equality for granted. We're not in goal, and progress doesn't come of itself. It's not possible to close your eyes to the major gender equality challenges we're facing. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse, we know that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have leadership positions. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We know that in many countries it is much less likely that one is born at all or gets education, work and a good life if one is a girl instead of a boy. It's not possible to say that this is going to take care of itself. We have to do like Valgerd, we have to use political instruments to solve the gender equality challenges. Many argue for equality because it pays off for work. For my part, equality is primarily about human dignity. I'm convinced that equality is right because we're all equally worth it. I think equality is good for men and for women, for children and for society as a whole. Our committee is responsible for both family and gender policy, and it is quite obvious that good equality policies are linked to good family policies. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to make it possible for parents to combine family life and working life, and the right to go to work and not choose between family and work life has been central to the struggle for women and is an important asset in today's Norway. Working life must adapt to family life and not vice versa. A good society is based on family and children's premises. Many assume that this means less equality. I do not agree with that. I find it unfortunate when the family needs and gender equality are addressed. I think the key to good family and gender policy is just in the interaction between these two. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e606	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e611	First, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for a very good, active and constructive cooperation for a better equality policy and for having managed to get a majority for so many of the proposals. But I would like to ask the representative what he thinks about the government's equality effort, and whether he can say a little about what he has thought about the weeks that we have worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e618	I want to repeat some of what I said in my post. I think there's reason to praise the government for the things there's reason to praise the government for. I pointed in some areas, including: what the message is very good at describing, that is, what is involved in violence in close relationships. I'm very happy about that, because this is a major equality challenge. I am pleased that we have a government that is forward-looking, and that wants to put action into practice. We have a majority for that here at Stortinget, and I look forward to getting a little bit further on that point. Otherwise, we have been busy showing the Christian People's Party's equality policy. Perhaps one of the differences is that the Christian People's Party is not afraid to use political instruments to get a little bit further on the challenges we have in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e625	We've heard from the pulpit here that in the eight years the red-greens sat in government, it was little new. But can the representative Bekkewold see something new in what the government is putting forward, besides that they have developed and built on what has already been there? Have any new things and new thoughts come from the government regarding equality, after the representative can assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e630	One of the new things that I'm also very happy about is that the government recognises that more research is needed in the field of violence in close relationships. I remember that at the beginning of this period there was a desire to get an extensive study of violence against children. The government thought that there was no need, because you had enough knowledge, and that there was a greater need for action. The fact that the government acknowledges that there is a need for more research to move on in that area, I think it's very good, and that's one of the things I want to praise the government for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e636	I'm going to go from the representative Mandt's friendly interview to a real line! I noted in the post of the representative Bekkevold that you are not in the target, and that you have to get there that you are no longer limited by gender, and we agree on that. But it's not just sex it's about, it's about, for example. also laying, which in many cases may have a limiting effect. As we have now seen, the Church has finally released a little bit of it, and it is allowed to hope that the Christian People's Party will also come after it. But with regard to family policy, there have been some traditional dividing lines — equal marriage law, cash support and reservation law, to mention some — between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. Now the newspaper Christian People's Party embraces the family policy, and Marie Simonsen says that «KrF changes partners». I don't know if the representative Becquerad agrees with that description.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e645	I also read the comment in the newspaper yesterday, and was actually a little surprised by the headline. Because if you read the content of that comment, it's actually a pretty good historical review of the Christian People's Party's equality policy. The article also points back to the important job, among other things. Valgerd Reply City Haugland did. So if you read the contents of the article, it's a little weird to have to defend the title, that we 'change partners'. The point is, of course, that we have used the opportunity that this communication has given us to make the policies of the Christian People's Party visible in this area, and have therefore been constructive and constructive proposals, which we hope can help to further the policy of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e650	The Christian People's Party wants to appear to be a serious equality party, which the daily newspaper has also got, when they wrote the article that they did yesterday. But it is in a comment on the matter that the Christian People's Party wants to impose an obligation on businesses to do business and to make presentations. This applies to all companies, and then you refer to DNB as a good example. What is the effect of this obligation to report? And what are the consequences for businesses that are unable to follow it up completely? That was my first two questions, and then I have one regarding cash support. How has cash support promoted the gender equality problem and the challenges we have in Norway up to now, how will cash support promote equality in the future, and what effects will it have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e659	These were questions that I need more than 1 minute to answer. I choose to answer briefly to the first: we are concerned that we should not give up the opportunities we have to promote equality in the workplace, and the obligation to report and the obligation to do so has been important in this respect. We are concerned that today's system should continue, and if today's system does not function optimally, then let's tighten it up, so it works as intended. But this is a little premature, because we don't yet know what the government is choosing to get to the Stortinget with. When it comes to cash support, I said in my post that I don't think there needs to be any contradiction between good family policy and good equality policy. There's a Christian People's Party, and there we might be a little bit different from other parties, because we're concerned that family life too should be able to work well in the workplace. So for us, cash support will still be a political tool that gives families room and opportunity to make independent choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e668	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e671	All human beings shall have equal rights and equal opportunities to participate in society, regardless of gender, function, ethnicity, language, religion and sexual orientation. Compared to other countries in the world, Norway has come a long way in relation to equality, but we still have challenges. Now the government has a big message with the good title ‘Relationship in practice — Equal opportunities for women and men’, but the central party agrees with the criticism that even if the title is good, unfortunately the message is a good situational description and a good analysis of the challenges, but the action part is too thin, and we also expected more. The centre party is not in the committee, but we will support several of the suggestions in the configuration. I want to give tribute to the case spokesman, Anette Trettebergstien, for a great commitment and too many good suggestions that have been made in the setting. By the proposals of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote, the Centre Party supports all, except for the proposals No. 10, 13 and 14. Of the proposals put forward by the Labour Party alone, we support the proposal No. 27, 28, 30, 31, 33, 34, 36, 40 and 41. When it comes to SV's proposals, which have been distributed today, we support proposal No. Seventy-seven. We want to go back to another post, we need to look at them a little bit more. A good part of the proposals are we some with the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party about. Some of the proposals that we want to vote against are some of the intentions of, but we are skeptical about what are purely budgetary priorities, and some of the proposals we oppose because they may seem rather bureaucratic. The message is one of many important areas of equality, such as equal opportunities for boys and girls, equality in the workplace, protection against violence and abuse, good health for women and men, more women in business and international gender equality. I would like to address this with good health for women and men as an important area of equality, and in fact the Health and Welfare Committee should have been more involved in this message and in this debate. Equal opportunities for anyone who is a superior vision are not given if one does not also have good health for all. Today, good health is divided differently in society — between different social classes, yes, but also differently distributed between women and men — and women and men are treated differently in health services. In February 2015, the Stortinget considered a joint proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Centre to ask the government to implement a public statement on women's health in Norway. Then the Left, Right and Progress Party voted against getting a chapter on women’s health in the gender equality message, where one would address challenges and measures to change what is a challenge associated with unwanted gender differences in women’s disfavor. I think here we have been given a description of the challenges of health – and women’s health, in particular – but there are no measures that will adequately address gender differences in health. For this reason, the Centre Party has submitted several proposals for correcting a part of it. We hope that we can get support for this during the voting. Finally, I would like to mention the Workers' Party's proposal No. 27, on a new municipal programme modelled on Equalised Municipalities. I could have wanted the party to look at that proposal again. I think we need to look at the gender equality work in the municipalities. We also need to look at gender equality in politics; we need to get more women local politicians and spokesmen. I just read a Swedish study that showed that several female politicians give less pay differentials, more equally distributed parental leave and more full-time public-sector settings, so I want to hit a small blow for that proposal. So I'm going to take up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e692	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e697	Thank you for a very good post. One thing that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have put together is the cash support. Now we see that it is being attacked from almost all sides, including from parties that have previously supported the cash support as a good arrangement to give families greater freedom of choice. Is the centre party also drifting away from the cash support, or can the representative Toppe assure that the centre party will continue to protect the cash support as the good arrangement it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e706	The central party now has a clear party program that we are going for the system that this government has also passed on, that there should be a system up to two years old, and that one should provide greater support to those with children between 12 and 18 months of age. There is something that we stand for, and in such an equality perspective, I believe that the arrangement as it is today is grossly overrated. I understand more the criticism of cash support as it was also valid for the two-year-olds, i.e. up to three years. When there's a system until they're two years old, and when we also know that most people use it as a flexible system to maybe postpone the start of kindergarten for a few months, I still think it's a good system, which I'm going to help support with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e714	The goal of liberalism is the freedom of the individual. For the left, it means that we will expand the individual's ability to have power in his or her own life, regardless of sex, life situation and background. We rest only when freedom is universal, for everyone. It's ambitious, and in equality policy, we still have a little bit to go before that goal is met. The women's fight is not over. It's going too slowly. Then it requires that we take action, not that we wait for the results to mature. Equal rights shall be formally guaranteed by law. Equal opportunities shall be ensured through active public policies, while school, business, working life and civil society share responsibility for disseminating knowledge and disseminating attitudes that underpin gender equality and respect. Women and men shall have equal natural access to power and influence as they shall have equal opportunity to have child and family care functions. That's the starting point for the Left as a liberal party. There has been some attention to the fact that the Left will decide the majority in respect of some of the proposals in the case today. It's not the first time the Left is a tipper and determines the direction of equality policy. The left's history of equality is long and proud. It was Left-Women and Men who formed Norwegian Women's Association, and it was Left who led the campaign for women's voting rights before it gained general approval in 1912. On the left, Norway's first female party leader, Eva Kolstad, became the world's first gender equality agency. Left introduced the gender quota as the first batch, and Left put in the government that introduced the gender quota in 2004 rulers. These are the instruments we have in place today. It is naive to think that equality will go its way without quotas and state regulation – which we hope one day can cancel. This is liberal feminism: that it should not have anything to say about what sex you are for what opportunities you have in life, that we should not interfere in how people will live their lives, and that we recognize that there are structural challenges that it is a political task to solve through regulation. The government has submitted a big message, which some in the Left have been described as so weak that it should be sent back. I do not share that view, but the Left is willing to contribute on the action page. The left hand side mainly supports the actions that are, after all, being warned in the message. The message is good at describing the challenges in the five selected areas. In particular, it is strong about gender-based educational and vocational choices and their impact on gender balance in senior management positions. In much of the public sector, e.g. in health and care, the majority of employees are women, but managers are mostly men. That's not good enough. We need to give women with leadership skills and ambitions the opportunity to take leadership positions. I also want to give the government the brunt of lifting up both women's health and an equality policy that addresses private business. Only 30 pst. Women are entrepreneurs, and fewer women than men succeed. It is important to remember whether women and men have equal opportunities to influence social development and are equal in all areas. But then there are some significant shortcomings. The major weakness of the notification is the lack of family policy measures. I would also like to say that the lack of an analysis that recognises that the large gender differences in the distribution of care tasks by parents have implications for equality in education, working life and management – and probably also policy and democracy. In a simpler way, equality begins at the kitchen bench. I note that the government will promote its own big message on family policy, and that this is the reason for the lack of family policy action. But an equality debate without this perspective will be half a equality debate. Both the government's own evidence base and all the hearing bodies strongly underline the link between family policy and equality. This is also the background for the Left today's proposal for 18 measures, which I mention with this. Among these are proposals relating to important family policy measures such as parental leave and cash support, both of which place strong emphasis on the level of real equality. We do not expect a majority in favour of these proposals today, but the debate will come with full weight in relation to the notified family communication. I am not given the opportunity to go into detail on all the proposals of the Left, but I would like to make a special proposal, no. 59, on the introduction of a third gender category. The debate is hardly mature enough for this proposal to have a majority today, although it has broad support in the parties' youth organisations. It is tempting to draw historical lines and see how the homophili debate has evolved over the past 25 years, and how homophili has today won both political respect and general respect in society. We want to develop the same respect and understanding for those who don't feel at home in one of the two sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e735	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e740	I would like to thank the Left for two things – firstly, because the Left and the Labour Party have always been united in the fight for the rights of LHBT people. I would also like to commend the Left to continue that debate today and to propose the introduction of a third gender. I am absolutely sure that there is a debate we must now enter into, and that development is going there that we must do so soon. I am also pleased that the Left, along with the rest of the opposition, is today saying that enough is enough and parking the government's disparity policy, and that we are joining forces with the measures that can bring equality forward. Because everyone at the hearing – all organisations, the social partners – who has thought anything about this communication, believes that it is too weak, that it needs action. We have done that job together, and I am pleased to have made as many concrete proposals as we are promoting today. What does the representative, Mr Kjeseth, think that the government parties in Stortinget have found no reason to support a single proposal that we together are promoting here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e749	First of all, they have to comment on that for themselves. They have their policies. I record that they believe that equality is moving ahead fast enough, without having to use the so-called radical instruments that we want to use. We do not agree. History shows that we need to put in place radical measures, whether in terms of the use of money or in terms of quotas. There's a real disagreement between the parties. I'm glad that we have a big deal and parties that respect that there's inequality, and that the majority of the Storing meets, regardless of blocks. I think it's a big deal worth it, and a big deal we should have, which creates such dynamics, and that the way you work together, which is the first cooperation agreement between a government and two parties, is also a way to pursue policies – and that we do not lock ourselves to a majority government that does not dare to take such difficult debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e756	But this is not the first time the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are united. We've done it to this government on several occasions. We have had to prevent large cuts almost annually in the budget rounds, for example. Lonely caregivers, cutbacks and proposals that would exacerbate child poverty in the country. We have also agreed earlier in the budgetary rounds on proposals that will continue equality, especially in the LHBT field. I'm very happy about that. What we're doing today is continuing a tradition where the government parties are alone in the fight against increased equality. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Kjeseth: what does the representative think about belonging to a party that, every year – time after time in the Grand Duchy and in each budget – must put all its political prestige in preventing gross proposals for cuts to the families of children and measures that will aggravate equality in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e763	The representative Trettebergstien represents a party that was in a government that was going to remove the child poverty with a pennestrek. It didn't happen. I am proud to represent a party that has helped to obtain a majority of 64 actions – I guess so – to reduce child poverty. We haven't said we're going to remove it with a pen stroke, but this is also an important part of what we're talking about today, about equality. Because it is clear that when children start on a life course and carry such luggage, it becomes difficult later in life to obtain education and work and to have to fight maybe a little harder than those who were luckier on the starting point. Combating child poverty is very important. We've got the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party going a long way – I'll say further on the way than the red-green government did. There's still fighting. I hope we can fight them together, with great breadth in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e772	It was the introduction to the representative in the pulpit who made me ask for a reply. There was the ideology of the Left and the desire for families to choose – make their own choices on the most free basis possible – very clearly stated. Then we've had a sharmoffensive from the representative Bekkewold from the Christian People's Party up here, a couple of rounds where he's fixed what can't be disputed, that just cash support is something that creates freedom of choice for the families. I have registered that among the proposals made by the Left, there is a proposal to remove both cash support and a third of the parental leave. I guess it's bad with the introductory part of the hall here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e779	I assume the representative is looking for freedom. The cash support has a story in the left where we've been. It comes from a time when kindergarten was subsidised, while being at home did not have similar support schemes. And it wasn't full babysitting. Now we are in a completely different situation where we have almost full child care coverage, and we see that there are challenges that cash support makes it attractive for some immigrant families to choose that solution. For the Left, there is essentially the possibility of getting more women with a minority background into work that is our reason to remove the cash support. We do not see today that there is any reason for it as long as the babysitting is as high as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e784	That was a plausible explanation. Even though one admits that it takes away the freedom of other large groups, that was an explanation. But as far as parental leave is concerned, one also goes wrong in view of the freedom of families to choose for themselves. What's the reason for that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e791	Speaking of cash support, there is also a freedom for women to choose a professional career. The cash support does not necessarily contribute to it. However, this needs to be discussed in the context of parental leave. We see that Dad's share is important. It affects Mother's career choices, so we want to use the opportunity to share the parental leave. We believe that the freedom we are now providing, in sum, is an increased freedom for families, and where father has to take a little more responsibility for mother being given an freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e800	Our society is still characterized by uneven relations of power between women and men. Women are under-represented in power positions. Women own less, and we earn less than men do. And because the power between women and men is unequally distributed, seemingly gender-neutral politics will strike very differently for women and men and reinforce the inequalities in power, opportunities and resources that exist today. Therefore, it is necessary to use instruments to challenge the structures that maintain the distorted relations of power between the sexes. Today, there is a policy that reinforces the differences. The economic policy of tax relief to the richest increases the differences in both sexes and class. Giving tax relief to the richest is giving the country's white men a better economic situation. The attack on the work environment law has a clear gender impact. It makes women more vulnerable and vulnerable in working life, and there is a direct contrast between ensuring a working life that combines being financially independent on one's own feet with having a safe family life. Privatisation policy leads to tougher working lives and less retirement for hardworking women, as we saw when the cleaners in the Defense had to go because of privatisation. We see that there will be a loss of retirement and tougher days. We also see that the attempt to attack the abortion law, the attack on the equality law, cut papers and the fact that we have longer nursery cows, reinforces the differences between the sexes. These are conscious political choices and priorities. It is therefore gratifying to see that the government is parked by the fact that the Stortinget provides a very necessary starting point in gender equality policy today. I would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for doing a very good job and for making a strong effort in the work on the message. I think it's very positive with the many proposals that we see today, from different parties. SV supports all the proposals of the Workers' Party and the proposals agreed by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The rest of the proposals I have to come back to later. There are a lot of people to comment on. Many of these proposals have also been promoted in their alternative budgets, with a better structure for gender equality, with stronger efforts, with concrete measures. I would like to address the SV's proposal and comment quickly. SV wants a nationwide commitment to sexual harassment in school. Limitation and respect for other borders need to be part of young people’s training. We want an obligating race of scope studies in the experience of violence and sexual assault, in the time to come. We also want more trials of reduced working time – with six hours of work. I record that the message says repeatedly that there is a problem that sick leave is high, and among women in particular. I want to challenge the government to carry out experiments with follow-up research to see if sick leave in those sectors where it is particularly high may have something to do with the type of work and the amount of pressure combined with being a double-working woman. SV also proposes to replace the cash support with a waiting aid while waiting for a nursery place, and to increase the fight against trafficking. We agree with the analyses and the problem descriptions in the message, but when hard facts are put on the ground, yes, action needs to be built up as monks. Otherwise, there is no foundation on which to build a society, a new policy. Today's debate has shown a need for equality policy, and it is that parties must have consequences. The government has to go from chat to practice. A more equal society is both possible and necessary, but action needs to be taken. I am very pleased that the Storting today helps the government to forge the key that can be an important start on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e830	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e833	The Greens set personal freedom high, but at the same time solidarity and compassion must set limits on individual freedom, not vice versa. We want a justice that is independent of gender identity, through equivalency, equal status, equal pay and equal representation. We want freedom from narrow gender roles, freedom from consumerism and the rule of beauty that comes with this, and freedom from objectization, violence and sexual harassment. The Green Party is working for real equality between men and women in work and family life through a labour policy that ensures both real gender equality and shifts focus from growth in consumption to quality of life. Greens will abolish involuntary part-time and protection of the Working Environment Act. We believe that a working life that focuses more on taking out value creation in terms of time than in terms of increasing consumption gives more freedom for individuals, regardless of gender. There are several good measures in place for the Committee. One of them is increasingly focusing on equality in kindergarten. Children need to be stimulated to reflect around the sex. They need to be stimulated to reflect around the fact that the gender stereotypes are narrow categories that are not all familiar with, and they need to reflect that society needs to give space to those who fall outside these stereotypes. Despite the fact that Norway has succeeded on many fronts in gender equality work, – as we all know – there are still major gender inequalities, including in welfare schemes that are partially gender-divided. The government does not provide enough measures to solve this problem. We know that men fall more often out of school, more often have drug problems, more often end up in crime, fewer people seek health care, and have lower life expectancy and higher suicide risk than women. We know that women, on their part, live more often in fear of violence, are more often exposed to violence in close relationships, are more often subjected to sexual harassment and abuse, and more often experience lack of legal certainty, poorer health services and protection against abuse. Not least, we know that there are very large numbers of people involved in rapes. We know that refugees and immigrant women are more often excluded from the integration work, and among others. has the lowest participation in working life and low education. We know that people with a different sexual orientation are still subject to bullying and harassment because of it. a lack of tolerance in society. Therefore, gender equality must take place on all sides of society with active inclusion, not by means of emancipation. These are challenges that require knowledge-based equality policies to change behaviour, attitudes and structures, as we have been working on equality for many years. We've achieved a lot, but not everything. We need concrete measures to reduce historical bias and remove glass ceilings and gender barriers, and to actively demonstrate that greater gender equality has many positive effects. The government writes in the equality message that: «The instruments shall as far as possible stimulate results other than injunctions, prohibitions and quotas». The Greens fully agree that the best thing to do is to encourage people to think and act the right way. The Green Party also believes that public action is necessary in this respect. The right has provided one of the best evidences of this exactly when Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen in 2002 suggested that it should be at least 40 pst. by both sexes of the boards of Norwegian public limited-liability companies. In 1993, it was 3 pst. women in these boards, in 2003 there were 7 pst, and today all public limited-liability companies comply with the legal requirements of 40 pst. This pays off not only for gender equality, but studies – which probably have been given to many – indicate that there is a little better return when you have more women in the boards, and that companies that have chosen to have only men in the boards have significantly more risky share prices. This shows that such an intervention as the Right and Gabrielsen implemented in 2002/2003 has very positive effects. The Greens therefore vote in favour of several of the proposals to increase the use of quotas, both in industry, in academia and in the school community, and for concrete measures to strengthen gender equality in Norway. We also support several other proposals on knowledge acquisition and active action, and we support the proposal for action against violence and abuse. The government's message is: We need a more active gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e855	Gender equality contributes to a better life for individuals and to a better society. It's about fundamental human rights, about equivalency and equal opportunities. Freedom of choice for individuals and the possibility of making own choices must be the basis of Norwegian equality and family policies. Differences between men and women are decreasing in Norway. Recent data from the SSB show that in areas where gender differences have traditionally been high, there has been a weak but positive trend towards gender equality in recent years. Gender differences in management positions, income and part-time work are the lowest since 2008. It is historic that in 2015 we can show for the first time that it is 51 pst for leaders at all levels of government. women. Several women also participate in local policies. The results of the 2015 elections show a weak growth in the proportion of women elected to Norwegian local government. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Nevertheless, after decades of gender equality policy, we still have challenges. Women and men have equal rights, but still not equal opportunities. Today, we have seen a debate on whether there are measures or not in this communication presented by the government. I would like to stress that the message we are dealing with today contains several actions in areas where we believe there are still major challenges, especially in terms of violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health, business and entrepreneurship. Some measures are already in place. Others we will follow up in the years that are coming. I would like to ask the representatives to read the proposals. It is clear in each field that the government will strengthen and establish and challenge. There are concrete measures contained in this Communication. Gender mainstreaming highlights both women and men’s challenges and challenges for many women with a migrant background. To achieve our objectives, we need to work long-term and targeted. Today girls perform consistently better at school than boys. Guys drop out of high school to a greater degree than girls. Girls and boys shall be able to choose education and profession according to their interests and abilities, not according to expectations. The government has launched research into the importance of gender for learning outcomes, for educational choices and for implementation rates. Last week I met Nora at the University of Oslo and Akershus. She is a role model in the project Girls and Technology, where the goal is to get even more girls to choose technology studies. Nora explained her choice in the following way: 'First of all, because I think it's very funny. But there is also a need for us and it is an exciting field." Young role models that Nora is important in motivating more people to choose untraditionally. I am pleased that the government supports the NHO project on girls and technology with 2 million. kr in year. This helps several girls to choose what Nora has done. In Norway, we still have a sex-shared labour market. We need more women who are engineers and managers. We need more men who are nurses and teachers. In the healthcare sector, there have traditionally been few males. This is unfortunate. Norway needs both men and women to meet tomorrow’s labour needs in this sector. One of the projects highlighted by the government in the communication is Men in Health, which is intended to help recruit more men for care professionals. We support the project with 4 million. kr in year. The government wants an inclusive working life where equality and diversity are at the heart of it. An exciting action is a pilot project in Agder, which is also supported this year by developing a dedicated certification scheme. Being able to support itself is a prerequisite for equality. That's why the Jobjesen project is so important. It gives more women with a migrant background an entry into the labour market. Job opportunities have been increased by over 10 million. kr in 2016. In Norway, we have a unique opportunity to combine family life and working life. Norway is at the top in terms of female participation. We have some of the world's best schemes: full child care coverage, a good SFO offer, the right to be home with sick children and not least the good parental care system. These are schemes that result in increased equality. The schemes give both parents greater freedom of choice and flexibility to combine family life and working life, and that is how family and gender policies are closely linked. Violence is one of the greatest equality challenges we have. We cannot accept that anyone is subjected to violence and abuse where they must feel safest, namely in their own home. That's why the effort against violence is a priority task for the government. We've put in 50 million. DKK over five years for research on violence in close relationships, and we have strengthened the crisis centre offer by 3 million. kr in the current year. Strengthening the response to coerciveness, strong social control and post-protection. I want to mention the wizard dinutvej.no, which the government launched earlier this year. The web portal provides information to victims of violence, assault and rape, to relatives and concerns, and not least to those who commit violence, and to professionals. Nor can it be that we have different health and care services based on whether we are women or men. We need more knowledge. The knowledge we already have needs to be better used. This concerns knowledge of reasons for differences in health between women and men and of undesirable differences in the provision of services. Norway needs more women as business leaders, entrepreneurs and managers. Our ambition is to increase the proportion of women as directors of state-owned companies. Work has therefore been started on the establishment of a gender balance measuring instrument in top management positions in industry. This allows both us and businesses to monitor developments over time and compare developments in Norway with other countries. The founding plan now presented by the government contains several measures to promote more women as entrepreneurs in Norway. This government is based on today's gender equality structure. Each sector is responsible for promoting equality in its own field. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family has been given a central role as a technical director responsible for developing good knowledge and documentation, and they shall also contribute to the implementation of gender equality policy. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and Names enforce the legislation. The equality cannot be promoted by the public alone. It is therefore important to support good projects and role models. Research environments, civil society, working life and business are important contributors to gender equality. The government has also consulted on a proposal for a new common law on equality and discrimination. The proposal strengthens the rights of women in a number of areas. Good regulation requires a good and effective enforcement apparatus. The government wants to make a clearer distinction between the enforcement role and the independent driving role. We have therefore been asked to investigate the enforcement and instrumentation in the field of equality and non-discrimination. We have come a long way in gender equality in Norway. We agree that we still have challenges, and we agree on which societal challenges are greatest. In public vocabulary, there must be room for differing views of what drives equality in the future. In this communication that the government has now presented, which is being debated today, we point to strategies and measures to drive equality forward in priority areas. Through the work of the government and the proposals in the communication, we facilitate equal opportunities between women and men. For us, this is equality in practice: addressing the challenges where they are. Finally, equality concerns us all and engages widely. This is an important prerequisite for promoting equality in the future both in Norway and internationally. Equality is not just a goal in itself, but an integral part of the width of the goals we're going to achieve. The objective of gender equality is long-term and clearly defined in the universal sustainability goals to which Norway has now joined: full gender equality by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e895	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e898	The Council of State continues to boast that Norway is high on gender equality statistics, while, every day, she and the government weaken and liquidate the measures, the policy, which has brought us there. The Council of State continues to claim today that this message we are discussing has measures that will address the challenges. It bears witness to a government council and a government that does not listen, but lives in its own reality while no one agrees with them. The Union, the Evening Post, the Left, an overall opposition, Specter, LO, NHO, the Equality Ombudsman, gender equality researchers – all who met at the hearing of the notification agreed that this message is good for description but lacks action. And when the Council of State draws on the weakening of the Working Environment Act as an equality measure, it is pointing to the trade movement that went to the general strike against government because of the gender impact of these weaknesses. What does the Council of State think she's all alone, along with the Right, about believing that this message has measures? Does it make an impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e907	I am proud of the big message that has been presented here. There are many concrete measures there. But then this big message is not a budget proposition. It is a big message, where there are proposals that have been put into the budget, but also proposals and measures that have been put in place and that we are continuing to work on. I am proud to live in Norway as one of the most equal countries in the world. It's not like the Workers' Party has the definition of what has brought equality in the future. The kindergarten agreement, which is one of the main reasons why women can combine working life and family life, was the leading SV and the Progress Party. The parental pension scheme that we have today, which is also one of the most important measures we have, has full support in the Progress Party. I am proud to be able to present measures that will lead equality forward, pointing to the challenges we face today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e914	It does not help to boast of the kindergarten agreement when the council belongs to a party and a government that has made the kindergartens more expensive and the queues longer, when they have power. That's what you do when you have the opportunity to do something that decides. It is, as I said, that no one agrees with the government that this communication has a single measure that will further equality. I record that the Council of State continues to believe it, that she does not listen to people or professionals, so I ask again: does it make the impression on the Council of State that the opposition here today is gathering, says that enough is enough, and promotes concrete measures that will further equality? Does it make sense that UNIO, LO, Specter, NHO and most newspapers in the lead position believe that this government puts equality in reverse? Does it even impress the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e921	I think it is a historic day today, because today we are discussing this big message. The previous government spent eight years without being able to provide a gender equality message that they received in Stortinget. The Left supported a document on gender equality, which was voted against by the Labour Party. Today, many measures are being adopted by the government. Then I would like to remind the representative that in several areas here it says about concrete actions that I am proud of. The government will strengthen its efforts against violence in close relations. The government will focus on some measures. The government will increase knowledge. I don't know if there's so much more concrete in the measures that come from the Workers' Party and the opposition, where the Storting asks the government to have ambitions to achieve that and that goal. I believe that there are more than several structures and more quotas, bureaucracy and state governance that are needed to achieve equality in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e928	Governments are well aware of many of the challenges we face in the field of equality internationally. She participates in the UN every year and discusses gender equality policy. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different opportunities based on what sex they have, and we know that in many countries it's not likely when you grow up as a girl, that you get education, that you get a good life. This must be met with political instruments, because this does not go unnoticed by itself. For this reason, I wonder: how does the Council of State want this government to be remembered in view of what policy measures they will propose, what they will be working on in relation to the major equality challenges that exist internationally? What does the Council want this government to be remembered as?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e935	I want to thank you for the question. I am very pleased that the representative also draws the international perspective into this equality debate. I am very pleased that the government, in cooperation with both the Christian People's Party and the Left, has managed to get to the bet that we are doing in aid to go to the education of girls. We know that education is the key to getting better knowledge of health and getting work. This is why the government in its aid budget has now made it clear – as the previous government did – to step up efforts to train more girls in those countries where this is necessary. This is also a work that the Prime Minister is at the forefront of, and has received international recognition for, the work that Norway is doing in the field of education for girls. It's an important job. It is also important to highlight the work done by the government in the context of both forced marriage, gender mutilation and sexual rights when discussing international equality policies, and the government is in a good position to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e941	I thank you for your answer. Back to Norway: Although we have come a long way in gender equality in 2016, there are still major challenges. I want to highlight in particular what is involved in violence in close relationships, which is a major challenge for equality. At this point, we have adopted a stepping-up plan, and it is now in the hands of the Council of State. We are impatiently waiting for the government to launch this escalation plan, and want an assurance that this is a matter for which the Council of State is ahead of us, and that we will see in the budget in 2017 that we are already actively working here with this major gender equality challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e948	Violence and violence in close relationships are one of the greatest equality challenges we have, that girls and women should not be able to feel safe in their own homes, but we know that men too are being affected by violence. Therefore, the work against violence in close relations is an important work for the government. I believe that the government has only shown this last six months, both in terms of the digital portals that have been launched, those who are going to help women get out of conditions that are harmful to them, and in terms of the work we have done for post-protection, and what we are now doing at the crisis centres. These are important measures to promote equality. Then, too, the research that the representative mentioned in his statement is an important part of what we need to move on. Then ask the representative for the escalation plan. Yes, the Storting has decided that there will be a stepping-up plan against violence in close relations, with a strong focus on children. It's a work that I coordinate, and we're doing a good job, so it's coming to Stortinget in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e957	I want to get into an area that not so many people have been in here today. Governments are moving in many sectors where there is female dominance among employees. In the healthcare sector, there is a very high degree of female dominance. We also see a challenge in the fact that the public sector is struggling to create new models, new treatment methods, new technologies – a little locked up in systems. There may be some options for promoting equality and opportunities for, for example, the Right Party and the Advance Party. women in the form of greater use of private and non-profit sector. Can the Council say something about how we can use those opportunities more actively in the health and care sector, in order to get more women entrepreneurs, including women.?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e962	I thank you for the question. As the representative is familiar with, today there is a gender-based labour market, and it is a challenge that we have to work with. We must start as early as possible in education choices — both girls and boys should be able to choose a profession according to skills and qualifications and not just what they expect. I believe that girls and technology, an effort to create role models to make more girls choose untraditional and enter the technology field, is an important part of that work. The fact that we need more men into the health and care professions is a challenge, and we also have to work on it. I believe that the action Men in Health, as the representative may know, is also an important contribution to getting men as role models and men to work in the health sector. Then I would also like to mention that when the government had the proposal for a common equality and discrimination law out of consultation, it was also a proposal to be able to positively treat men in the professions – an important measure in the gender equality debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e971	Does the Council of State see the need for a stronger structure for gender equality if the objectives and visions that the Council of State has just shared in its contribution are to be achieved in society and in people's everyday lives? That's my main question to the Council of State. Then I also wonder if the Council of State sees that there is a clear link between the financial framework of the equality centres and the work on equality in kindergartens. The third is about ambitions in terms of sex-sharing, because it's a goal that we all share here, but it's a little different perspective on what to do to get it into. I wonder if the Council of State believes that early experiences – which can help to make less traditional choices – and having several technical centres can contribute positively to girls' experience in technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e976	This government is based on the gender equality structures that we have today. There are four equality centres, including Reform, which this government has also strengthened, which are an important work to work with gender equality. But it's not the state that's going to do this alone. We need to move on with gender equality measures, and work needs to be done both in the workplace, in the municipalities and in the voluntary sector. So there are multiple instances that have to work with this. There are many good measures that the government believes it is important to support, and we have done so both by supporting the NHO in terms of girls and technology – creating role models for girls in order to choose technology – and by building up the action that the two Agder groups have taken, in other words by supporting such structures. I think it's also important that we think that we can join in and support what's already there, without having to have more bureaucracy, more structures and more quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e981	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e984	Today, when we are discussing equality between women and men, it is appropriate to recall that Norway has also been a country with low female participation, and that has not been long since. In the 1970s, the change came. Women born after 1950 participated in education and work in a completely different way from women born in the 1930s and 1940s. In 1972, four out of ten women in Norway were employed, today the proportion is close to seven out of ten. From 1970 to 1985, Norway started to lie almost at the bottom of female employment in the OECD. Sometimes we underestimate the extent of this profound social change. Today, women represent almost half of all those working in Norway, but many of the challenges of equality between women and men, both at home and in the workplace, can be traced back to how society’s services and attitudes were, or rather were not, prepared for the realities of equality. We continue to have women's and men's jobs, women systematically earn less than men, and much more women work part-time. There is still a lot of equality work to be done. An overall opposition understands this and today promotes dozens of new equality proposals – against the right and the right. It says something about the understanding of this challenge by political Norway. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is the main means of combating poverty, equalising social differences and achieving equality between women and men. Work until all are jobs. one, and it is also gender equality job no. one. Equality, equal rights and family and welfare policies are important for achieving the objectives of a good society and working life, but they are also good for economic well-being and for value creation, both in the private and public sectors. We live by each other's work, and when the government makes its budgets, they should thank Norwegian women every day. If we compare Norwegian women's participation in employment with the OECD average, the added value of our women's high professional participation amounts to our oil wealth. There's a standard that says a lot about the level. It also illustrates the importance of work — or to put it this way: the Norwegian model is undisputed without equality and women's participation in the labour market. So what has made this possible? And how have we done that, while the birth figures have been on the higher scale in Europe? Norms in society and expectations and opportunities for women to work are important. However, gender equality policy must also help to provide real opportunities in practice. Therefore, the development of kindergartens, maternity leave and the birth rate — for example — has been important. And precisely because a lot was done at the time in the 1970s and 1980s, politics must have momentum, vision, ambition and action today as well, and on the way to 2020, in all sectors of society. It is against this backing government's message is weak – very good description, but in action weak. All – with the exception of the Advance Party and the Right – agree that the government’s message is not good enough, that it lacks action, lacks concrete ambition. The government's insistence on ambitions is refuted in Stortinget. The centre of gravity of Norwegian policy is not where the government is, to the right of the Right, but the centre of gravity is being withdrawn by the majority here today. We see that the policy that the government has implemented so far also contributes to weakening equality – as cut in the paperwork, increased cash support and increased price in the kindergartens, in short the opposite of what works – and once again it is good that the majority take back to where it belongs, somewhere other than between the Progress Party and the Right. We still have to work for a more equal working life. Equality does not come of itself. The working party will increase the father's quota, we will build more kindergartens and improve the quality of kindergartens – at a reasonable price. We want to know more about man's living conditions and take men's gender equality challenges seriously. It is time for a new human body to come up with proposals for new policies and knowledge that can provide a basis for action. And when we in the Labour Party develop new policies, we look for better arrangements for families with children, so that it is easier to combine children and family life with work. The working party has proposed a total of 50 measures for increasing equality. I commend the majority of the committee for having found good majority solutions on very many of those proposals. And with this, we're also giving the opportunity for gender equality. I'm glad we've reached a broad consensus. The majority know that gender equality policies are necessary, the majority know that gender equality policies work, and the majority want to take the Norwegian society forward, not put us back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1005	An equality message and subsequent debate here in the Chamber are in place at regular intervals. However, I wish that in 2016 we had a broader gender equality debate than the one we've had for this debate today, which is only about gender. There are clearly other parts of society out there that experience inequality, that deserve our attention, and should get it. Nevertheless, there is probably the need to continue to use energy on fundamental attitudes and rights for gender equality that really upset me. So this is not a criticism of other parties here in the hall, but of parts of the community around us. As head of the Equality Committee, I regularly experience feedback about environments that practice or talk about gender equality attitudes that hang from a time when we absolutely do not want to identify with them. Retro is in for the time being, but we must not take positions on the purchase. I got the last example on Monday. Then I was at a debate on gender quotas in the film industry. There, women in the industry are told about systematic down-priority, lack of support and inability to compare with their male counterparts — decisions that cannot be explained except by gender differences. Also in education, attitudes about what women have to do to move on that are miles away from equivalency and equality! Ida, some of this is enough to defend your own positions, but anyway -- this doesn't work. This was just one example of several where we experience attitudes in an environment and in the head of people who show that we need to invest resources to disseminate elementary and fundamental equality premises in such a way that attitudes change. And here's the full opportunity to once again widen the debate to apply more than gender equality. So how do we deal with this challenge? Yeah, that's where we separate layers here in the hall. I don't think directors, scriptwriters and directors in the film industry tomorrow take a completely new position because we've got a majority vote in the Grand Duchy on quota. I think there might be a focus on which trickle grip you can do to meet the requirement. That way we don't change attitudes. The government’s Equal Opportunities Communication contains around 70 active interventions, all of which contribute to the clearing up of attitudes, the lack of rights and follow-up procedures, while at the same time working concretely to identify what can provide a basis for different treatment approaches and, of course, targeted work on attitudes. For the Right, it is important to create understanding and good attitudes, and that each of us, like politicians, leaders in both the public and private sectors, colleagues, neighbours and trust leaders in organisations, be challenged on our own opinions if we are to go wrong. I note that there is today a majority in the Chamber for some proposals containing quotas. That's not our preferred method. Of course, coercion and punishment can have an effect, but we pick another line. There have also been some suggestions that open doors. The strangest thing is that, after a lot of proposals, they deal with what is already mentioned in the communication. Someone hassles that it is strange that we then vote against. Yes, it must be said to be even more strange that one suggests what is in the message one more time. The right is straight behind the message, the challenges it describes, and the active actions summarised. I don't have the fascination about how to achieve full equality in all areas quickly, but I can say that quotaing has not changed the attitudes of people to a sufficient degree. After all, I hope that the message and debate will do something with us – equality and non-discrimination are a crucial basis for a good society for all, and we want that, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1022	The equality debate is undoubtedly an important debate, perhaps it is more important than ever. Unfortunately, we have recently shown many examples of the fatal consequences that can befall a country that does not take people's opportunities seriously, European countries where the golden opportunities are reserved only for a small group, where one must choose their parents with care to succeed, and must cheat on their national challenges and lack of integration. Fortunately, we have a government and a minister who sees the importance of not narrowing people's opportunities and dreams, and no government has done so much to include everyone like this government. We want to increase gender equality skills already in kindergarten, we have introduced free core time in kindergarten for families with low incomes, we make it easier for immigrants to apply their education, and we look at measures that lead to more boys completing high school and taking higher education. The list is long. But Norway has not only a national responsibility, we also have an international responsibility in terms of gender equality challenges. When I hear the debate here today on governance and higher education, I would like to remind you that these are not challenges for all women in Norway today. This concerns the daily challenges worldwide. Of course, we should be able to have two thoughts in our head, but the most important job for equality is not only done in Norway, it must also be done internationally. Women and girls are subjected to daily torture, sexual mutilation, abuse and discrimination, which at worst lead to death. Norway should be a clear voice internationally, speak the language of women and girls and be a global model of our national policies. Through clear priorities and requirements in aid work and efforts in various international forums, Norway contributes to improving living conditions for women and girls worldwide. I am proud to represent a government that will respect women's rights and gender equality in the broad sense of foreign and development policy by ensuring that girls have the same access to education as boys, continuing a strong commitment to combating mortality, strengthening the provision of health services for women and girls worldwide, strengthening international efforts to combat girls' sexual mutilation, and, not least, continuing to work against rape. Not only do we have a job to do nationally, we also have international responsibility for women and children who experience discrimination, torture and discrimination on a daily basis because of their gender. It doesn't help to be on the right track if we just stand there, and that's why I'm glad we have a government that's lifting the equality challenges internationally, with more measures than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1037	This is a historic day. Today, we adopt a new, forward-looking equality policy – and a lot of it without a government party. The size itself has made the necessary changes. We have a Minister for Children and Gender Equality who has learned that equality has gone too far in some areas. There seems to be a widespread perception among politicians on the right that we in Norway are either in the target, or that at least we have come so far that there is no longer a need for active, targeted and concrete policy action. It goes with history that right-wing politicians have never thought that political decisions are needed to solve gender issues. Now when they say that the tool is no longer necessary, because we have come so far, we should know that they were never for these tools initially. This day, we could hear the big-time representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, from the Right, on the radio. She talked about her father's quota and said, ‘It sounds very bad to these poor men who have to argue against their roommate or wife and argue to their employer to give them the opportunity to be with their children.’ So she added: I think men are «well equipped to take that fight», just as women did in the 1970s, when they went into work. This is historyless. Women did not get space and position in the Norwegian community because each of us is arguing with a spouse or employer. Women were given opportunities because we went together, worked together and worked together. They changed the laws and priorities - and we got rights to join the table. There's a very important difference between the right-hand side and us. Their view of the everyday life of people is that if the sun doesn't shine on you, then go and sit in the sun, then. That is what equality policy is on the right – that each woman and every man should get their own dishes. It makes it something that you have to negotiate, instead of being something you have a claim to. The choices we make depend on the choices we have. Then it's a political task to make sure that people have real choices. The government's equality message is good at one point, and it's in the description of the situation, for example. too many of the small and large choices we make are guided by the different expectations placed on women and men. Although we have formal rights, we do not have equal opportunities in practice. The problem with the message is the answer. They are either weak or absent. It marks this government. They describe the problems – without delivering a policy that solves them. We have been waiting for two years for a message that does not contribute to increasing equality, as well as for a government that daily pursues a policy that sees equality in reverse. For this reason, it is so important that the Horne Government Council does not get an impact on its proposal to remove the gender equality law and instead have a general anti-discrimination law. Without the Equality Act, we lose some of the best tools we have to promote equality between women and men. I'm glad that the Right Party government is resisting its equality policy from more than us. What's happening today is a collaboration between all the opposition parties on Stortinget. It is a cooperation that has our constructive and good. It's not surprising that the Labour Party has completely different solutions to gender equality challenges than the government has, but what's happening today is that the majority of the Stortinget send a crystal clear message to the sitting government that the big challenges in our society are not being solved by describing them. One needs action, and one needs policy. Today, this plurality is writing new Norwegian gender equality history, while the government party is watching.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1067	Listening to the debate here today, it's so intermittent that you think we're in 1916 and not 2016. It's very polarized, it's very acutely formulated, and once again everything has to be counted, it has to be measured, and it has to be quantified. However, if we are to measure first, we can think a little about suffocation after suffocation — year after year — in which Norway has been named the world’s best country to live and live. In these unions, women are also asked. It's not that wrong, and it's not as close to Ragnarok as you can get the impression when you listen to this debate. It's about equivalency. It's about equality, and it's about equal opportunities – for all people. With the petitrepirch that I hear in between, to illustrate the level, you might not say people anymore, but "persons". We're down on a level of detail that's very special. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come - A lot is good. A lot has been done, and more can and should be done, as this message also points out. At the same time, it must be allowed to allow ourselves to rise and be proud that Norway is a leading country, and that we are both a superpower internationally and have a leading role in gender equality. I want to tell a story from my own life, because very much has happened in a very short time, in just one generation or two. Not too long ago I visited someone I know well, and a young person in the house had just got a new girlfriend – very exciting. I was on my way to greet this girl, and I was warned by another young person in the household: Before you go and say hello to your girlfriend, you have to know one thing, that this girlfriend is a little introverted, a little quiet and modest and careful, and you're often a little presumptuous and 'on', so just give him a little bit of time, and you'll see that it's a very nice person. Yes, it's good to know in advance, I thought. Then I go in and greet a modest, very pleasant and pleasant person. What I had not been told, and which would have been natural in my generation, was that he had a different color of skin and was of the same sex as his girlfriend, but this was quite natural for the person who warned me. Of course, that's the way it should be. We've moved very far, and we're going to be happy for that. – He now has another girlfriend, with a different skin color and a different sex, so he moves. We've come a long way even if a lot remains, and of course, bias needs to be corrected. Sometimes it has to be a powerful tool. Historically, we have seen it, also in the Right, as when the Right Minister in his time quotas the women into the boardrooms. But the counter-party equality that we're about to move towards now, where there are percentages, the number of heads, every woman and man – well, we might have to adjust that later if you're going to follow the left and introduce the third gender. Should it be third every woman, man and go? It shows a little bit where this debate is going. The same applies to the number of weeks. 10 weeks of paper is a scandal, 14 weeks is equality – another example. My first child was born in 1999, and I was home seven months with that child. With the other child, who was born in 2001, I was home for five months. Was I then more equal with the first child and less with the second, or was it the wife who was most equal, or was she at least equal? If anyone can explain it to me, it's very nice. It was not the result of tough negotiations at the kitchen table. It was a family that solved a challenge and a happy family had, for the benefit of that particular family. Yes, we still have challenges, it's still unsolved tasks. The equality message points to many of them, and as the red-greens have also said, the message describes many of them well. In addition, as pointed out earlier in the debate, we also refer to more than 70 measures, which last I counted for, are more than 50, which are the others. So this is part of bringing forward gender equality policy, a policy that has been good for many years and that is now getting even better. So I hope we can continue this debate without polarizing it unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1084	There are some choices that are more important than others, and the most important is perhaps the choice of partner. I'll leave it here, even if it's equal. The second important choice you make is usually done a long time ago. It is choosing education and, unfortunately, it often happens on a rather failing basis. Many young people know little about working life, and naturally many parents only have knowledge about their own professional life. The career guidance, or counselling, on the way is far from good enough, and too many people make their choices based on conditions other than their own abilities, talent and what they themselves want to thrive on. There's a lot of reasons for that, but gender roles are a main cause. In particular, this applies to the education chosen by young people at secondary school. They're very gendered. I believe that this is perhaps one of the most serious equality problems we have, with the exception of violence against women. Only 3 pst. by the apprentices in construction engineering are girls. On the design and craftsmanship there is a little over 10 pst. boys, same thing as in the field of health and growth. 86 pst. by nurses students are women. Gender points can fix some of that, and it's very good that the Stortinget now gets extra points for girls or boys when it's more than 80 pst. of the opposite sex on the line they are looking for. But we're not just going to target it, especially on studies where there are low admission requirements. We need to do more with counselling, career paths, etc. and take action, for reasons of seriousness, is that there are so many problems associated with gender equality with educational choices. Wages and salaries, how workplaces work, how tasks are solved, are affected by gender. There will be a difference between a kindergarten or a kindergarten with only one sex among the employees and one where children meet both men and women in the daytime. It is also true in completely different types of jobs. It is for this reason that the leadership of the defence is strongly attached to a common duty of protection — that both sexes are serving the duty of protection, they believe, will improve the defence. But the fact that we have equal formal rights does not mean that we have equal opportunities in practice. Too many of the small and large elections we are ruled by are linked to different expectations of women and men. These are system problems. These are structural problems, and they cannot be solved by individuals alone with their free choices. I think it is almost naive to listen to the Progress Party and the Right who, through this debate, uphold the right to make their own choices, and that they believe that this will solve the equality problems. This government is constantly repeating that they are concerned with knowledge, and they are increasing the appropriations for research. Well, research shows that we're not aiming at equality, and research shows that we need to use far stronger instruments than what we now see. State Council Horne's gender equality report gets snuffed out by the researchers, but the government doesn't do anything. You can wonder why. We're looking for knowledge to be wiser, and once we get new knowledge, that should lead to a change. I don't know where in this chain it fails in the Right and Advance Party – probably when knowledge collides with ideology. The right and the Advance Party's cultivation of the individual's choice trumps obvious knowledge. Let me take a classic example in the equality debate, which has also been up here today, namely, paper. Apparently, this is about the father’s and mother’s free choice – on paper. But it's not like that. In Bergen, Norway’s School of Commerce has established a research centre that has great success. The Choice Lab, it's called, and here economists are researching how we humans make choices based on morality, risk, time and other relationships. Professor Alexander W. Cappelen has written about how reduced paperwork makes it harder for fathers to choose longer leave. This is because the father starts from the ten weeks that he now has – towards 14 weeks before – and then he knows that his mother might want more, and he knows that the job might want him to take less. What people do when they want to make such choices is that they want to prevent loss – they're more concerned with it than getting a win on their choice. So they're going to fight very hard not to get less leave and not so hard to get more leave, and so many men end up taking out exactly the spring quota that the government has decided, so they don't fight even more battles. We predicted this, and that's what happened, and the government should be able to understand that it's actually like that. For freedom of choice is a fine word, but it's hollow. You try to imagine that we humans are completely free to do exactly what we want – that's not the way it is, and that's why we need tough equality measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1107	For us in the Workers' Party, equality is about equal opportunities for all, about justice and about a society of small differences. It is the policy's task to protect the family and the individual. This is where the government has failed completely. The pay gap has increased, the working environment law is weakened, the paper has been cut, the nursery prices have increased, the queues for kindergarten have increased. This is beyond the ability of each individual to make the right choices for himself. We believe that equality pays off – for businesses, for society and for our children. The government seems blind to their responsibility to ensure that as many as possible can make their own choices. I think Kårstein Eidem Løvaas illustrated this very nicely in his speech by mentioning the debate as a wig. He tells a sunshine story about how good he himself was to take paper and be home, and it's great, but when you stand in the sun yourself, you can actually get blinded and don't see that there might be others who don't have as free choices and as free opportunities as right-hand representatives. I think the debate here clearly shows that the right-hand side representatives do nothing but observe the problems of society, and therefore they do not act. We see so far this pattern in a number of other things, I can for example. mention the increasing unemployment, where the government is good at being out talking about the problem and saying that people have to seek good advice, but when it comes to action – to take the responsibility that the government actually has – we hear nothing. The lack of measures we see from the government is, to put it mildly, alarming, and it seems to me that new ideas and better solutions have been replaced with old ideas and no solutions. The result on the equality field, which we are discussing today, is equality in reverse. I think it was useful, to the extent that committee chairman Harberg mentioned the film policy and the film field as an example. I was in the same debate and heard the same stories. We've seen a positive development for women in movies in recent years. But developments have stopped and gone back as a result of some of the first Minister of Culture from the Right did after the 2013 elections, saying that it would no longer be a goal for the state to contribute to gender equality in this field. We see that quotaing works, it has worked within films in the past, it has worked with regard to paper issue – and removing such measures also works. We now see this with poor development for women in film, and we see poor development in men who are at home with children. Then it's our responsibility to take over this development and do what we can to contribute. Harberg only points to the problems, but has no solutions. For the many women who are waiting today to get the opportunity to get into the film industry, there is no help to get from this government. For the many men who want more time with their kids, there is no help to get from this government. That's how we view the pattern of areas by region. Now, almost everyone who is concerned about this field has criticised the government for the lack of action, and I do not understand that there is at all the will to listen to these signals from the Union, from the LO, from the NHO, from Specter and from equality researchers. But we also see that pattern again from the government. This government doesn't have the ability to listen to anyone but itself. Finally, in this debate, the representatives of the Government repeatedly say that many of the proposals coming from the opposition are already either mentioned in the communication or implemented. But there has not been a single example of what they mean by that. I therefore invite those from the right who are going to take the floor in the debate to clarify in what areas they think they are already doing well in relation to the proposals we are promoting. And what is the reason why they will not be able to support those proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1124	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1127	It has been interesting to hear the debate and stories of the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party on their own lives and experiences – ghosting and harping with equality. They have no good answers, no good answers. So talking about something else is more important. But we know that equality does not come of itself. We know that the many battles that have been fought for years to get to where we are have come for action. The ambition of the Labour Party is that we should remain one of the most equal countries in the world. We see that ambition that the blue-blue government doesn't share. In many professions we have overrepresentation of women, especially in the health and social sector, where women make up 80 pst. of the employed. These professions also have more part-time, lower wages than comparable training, shift and rotational problems, and few can take on leading positions. The pay gap causes more women than men to reduce their working hours in order to make everyday life easier to cope with. This has consequences, including: for the retirement of women later in life. Even in the teaching profession, we see most women. And all these women-dominated professions are professions that men should absolutely have. So what's the government's answer? When more women are so successful in getting involved in human-dominated studies, the opposite should also be possible. Experience and action should be continued, but new measures should also be applied. For there are few responses in the message, as we have heard here, about how to increase the proportion of men as teachers, and no action on how to get more men to work in important professions in health, care and social – just a description of the problems. That is why we have proposed different measures that can work. We believe that measures such as reducing the use of part-time, removing the general possibility of temporary employment, giving extra points to boys and girls applying for lines with 80 pst. by the opposite sex, getting more gender equality work into kindergartens and doing gender equality scholarships where there is an overweight of students of opposite sex, are some of the measures that are important to take. This does not solve itself by the free will and choice, which the Right likes to say, this must be worked on and invested in. This is only solved by the willingness of society to take on the responsibility, to be present and to make facilities that contribute. The Right Party and the Advance Party clearly show that they want a different society where people get the best out of themselves. We have also heard that from the stories that the representatives have told from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1142	I was in Political Quarter today. Then we heard Trettebergstien show the Workers' Party's soul – the party's steel faith in bureaucracy. It was the bureaucrats who were the champions of equality. Yes, it was when it was about the bureaucracy that the Workers' Party's heart began to beat. Think of what we've got through bureaucracy! The problem, of course, is that there is too little bureaucracy in Norway, not too much. And in line with that view, the Workers' Party proposes a number of things that will increase bureaucracy in this country. So this debate started in the hall, and then the Workers' Party isn't talking so much about the bureaucrats. Now it is the politicians who are the heroes, the politicians who are the most important of equality. It's the politicians who are the front fighters. Yes, we politicians are truly remarkable. Perhaps the best thing you can hope for are politicians who act like bureaucrats? It would be social democracy as we've learned to know it. Not long ago, we had a big debate on the moderate adjustments in the Working Environment Act. The working party criticised these with bragging and bram, but in retrospect they have been completely unclear as to what they want to reverse. It has not been possible to get an answer to that. All they've said is they want to raise the threshold of working life for those who are far outside. However, with the adjustments in the Working Environment Act, we addressed an important gender equality challenge, and that is the involuntary part-time. There's something that the left-hand side has been involved in talking about, but the previous government refused to do anything about it. Through thoughtful, moderate changes, we preserved important structures in our common working life while giving people more power to control their own working hours. Where trials have been carried out on such schemes, it has been seen that well-being has increased, sick leave has declined, and job breaks have increased. In the discussion we have had here today, sick leave among women has also been addressed. We contribute to a better system through careful changes in the health pay scheme, and the IA agreement concluded in 2014 provides for less bureaucracy and more follow-up in sick leave work. However, this message also works in other areas — recruitment of men as kindergarten teachers, strengthening the knowledge base on gender differences in learning, implementation and educational choices, and we support the active recruitment of several girls to the real subjects. The Labour Party can talk about politicians and bureaucrats, but it is good that we have a government that wants to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1155	There are two different approaches to equality that stand against each other here today. One is that equality is the responsibility of each individual, and the other is that the community, politics, has a role in changing society and increasing equality. The entry from the representative Heggelund actually confirms that the Right Party and the Advance Party have reduced themselves to commentators who consider developments passive. It's just talk – there's no action. The action lamb is so total that if the Minister for Gender Equality had been a municipality, she would be put on the ROBEK list from day one. Fortunately, the majority want an active and targeted policy. It cheers the feminist in me for. For politics works. The father rate is just one example of that. Before the birth quota, there were almost no men who took out parental leave, but then, as now, there were many who thought no, it would happen by itself gradually. Well, it didn't until the spring quota was introduced and gradually increased. Now almost all the fathers take out the feather quota – almost a day more than the father quota itself, but it has given more equality in the family. Since the turn of the millennium, men have spent more time on housework by six hours a week — almost an hour a day. It's a little revolution. It's not enough, but it's good for women, it's good for men, it's good for equality. If you go through this setting, you can find a lot of suggestions about men and equality and count them up. It's about sex scores, men in kindergarten, NOUs and men's equality challenges, but it's really a fallacy to think like that. All policies, all measures for equality, are good for men. But if we're going to move on, we need action. I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party are happy that we are more equal than before. They celebrate the results, but they want to scrape the tools that took us there. Government parties are guilty of one of the greatest threats to equality, namely taking it for granted. Equality does not come of itself; it is a continuous work, a continuous process. Saying that now it's good enough, now we put away the tools that brought us here, is kind of like a sportsman would say, well, training was good before, but now I'm in the shape of my life, so now I can end up with all this exercise. It's old-fashioned, immature and out of date. See for yourselves that a Petter Northug or a Marit Bjørgen had had that setting. Of course that would not have happened. Equality is fitness training and must be maintained. That's why the Minister for Gender Equality is now instructed by Stortinget to take more active action than the Right Party and the Advance Party had intended to take. Today the government is placed under the administration of the Stortinget. A gender equality message without action is not good enough for the majority, and I am pleased that the majority will write new gender equality history.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1170	When you hear the left-hand railing with the government parties here today, let me begin by stressing that for me equality is one of the guiding principles of our society. Equality shows who we are, and what we think about others. Equality is also about the fundamental human rights of individuals and is part of Norway's identity, which we believe this communication shows. A very important arena for most people is the job. Therefore, equality in the labour market is one of the best ways to achieve real equality. It is important in the workplace that people get opportunities based on what they can contribute, and not on who they are. It is, in my view, real equality. I am pleased that the Progress Party in government, together with the Right, is working to ensure that the social partners take equality seriously. For example, we mourn. for a pilot project on the certification of establishments achieving the standard of equality and diversity. In the workplace, you have to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. We have to make sure that those who are at work are treated equally. We have to make sure that those applying for a job will be the same. And for immigrants, as several have mentioned here today, it is a key to being able to Norwegian to get a job. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is important that immigrant women also learn our language. In this way they are integrated, in that way they are equalised, in that way they are liberated, and in that way they can contribute actively and constructively to society. This is achieved by strengthening job opportunities and by improving the quality of the introduction system and training in Norwegian and community knowledge. I've always thought that everyone has equal value, equal rights and should have equal opportunities. That's why it's so important that equality is a guiding principle in our attitudes, but also in how we organize our working life and society around us. Finally, the equality in Norway has come a long way. It's a continuous process. We see that we have high participation of women in the workplace. Unfortunately, women are underrepresented in the boardrooms. The fact that Norwegian governments contain a lower proportion of women is a signal that those who recruit board members do not fully understand equality, but also a signal that they do not understand that they are in practice only recruiting from half of the talents in the country. Nevertheless, I do not want quotaing. I think it's better that they're recruited because they're good. The social partners have a great responsibility for equality. The size can decide what it wants, but it doesn't necessarily give real equality. We all create that together in society through good attitudes and equal respect for both sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1194	Equality does not come about by itself. It's been said many times here in the hall, and it has to be underlined. It still has to be worked on, it hasn't been done once and for all. Equality is not something that can be taken for granted. Yes, Norway has come a long way compared to many other countries, but there is still a good deal. We experience stagnation and even retreats in some areas. Equality in practice requires action. Equal opportunities for women and men are created through actions, concrete actions, not just talking. There is an interaction between actions and actions. Government messages have many fine words and references, but in many areas they are disappointingly weak when it comes to action. For this reason, the Centre has put forward some own proposals, and largely supports the proposals that are in the position of the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party, and loose proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber today. Quotating in different areas has been a good tool, mostly for women, but the principle is equally valid for men. Quotation as an active substance is not outdated, but must still be used. Equality in the labour market is important and decisive for equality in family life. Workplaces with both sexes work best. There is a great deal of attention about the absence of women, because it is high for different reasons – something that needs to be found out more about the background and the reasons for it. Women are strongly overrepresented in care professionals and most of the professions related to children. These are workplaces where one is exposed to various infectious diseases, which allow one to become infected by oneself, or to infect one to work for and care for. There are still, to a large extent, women who are at home when children are ill. It affects and explains some of the missing statistics. But we can do something about this. We can make it easier for men to be home and share in that care. With more equality of opportunity and pay policy, it can be distributed. But we have to accept that there will always be higher sick leave in the infant phase, and we can't just view it as a cost. It is an investment for the future – children are future. Gender equality must be seen: show that men and women can be in all occupations, at all levels of society, show that women and men are in leadership positions. The work of getting more men working in kindergarten and school is crucial for both children and adults’s perception of roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1211	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries, said the Minister for Gender Equality. She's right, but she doesn't have much of the credit for it – at least not the party the Minister for Gender Equality represents. Her colleague, Ib Thomsen, believed that no government had done more to include everyone than this government. I think it would be reasonably easy to refute. We should bear in mind that today's government is proposing reservation rights for permanent residents. So if there's someone who's wondering if we're back in 1916, or what the representative Eidem Løvaas said, it's not that hard to find the answer to that either. We have a government that increases cash support, which makes it more expensive to be in kindergarten, and cuts the paper commission. We have representatives who are standing here today, who are either unable to make their own policy, or who are trying to produce the results as something completely different from what they really are. The representative Reiertsen said that there weren't fewer fathers who had taken out papers, but we know that's the facts, and we knew that before the government cut. Solveig Horne said before the cut in the paperwork that change in the quota would have nothing to say to fathers' withdrawal of leave. Of course it does. Although the representative Eidem Løvaas was very good at taking out his share of the leave, I have met quite a number of men, especially in industry, who feel that it is imperative to take out more than the quota that you have been given. I am pleased that we, a collective opposition, are today moving towards the government's lack of equality policy and doing something about the opportunity to make good proposals in connection with this message. Today, in the early days of Political Quarter, the representative Tina Bru said that this debate is about how far we should go. He does, he always has. The Labour Party, SV and other parties have often erred much more than the Right Party and the Progress Party have traditionally done. We're not surprised. These are classic dividing lines in politics, and I'm glad that the Left and Christian People's Party is on the right side today. It's a right-wing politician I want to thank – he has thanked me many times before – and it's Ansgar Gabrielsen. I don't think it was entirely anchored in the Right Group meeting when he proposed quotas on ASA controllers. But it was an important and good suggestion that fuels honey. The work on power in close relations is very important, and I know that the involvement of the councillor Horne is great in that area. It's a social problem, it's a serious crime, and it's an equality problem. At the same time, I do not think that today's government is particularly forward-looking. She is continuing the policy of the previous government in this area. That's very good. But it was not the government of today that suggested strengthening crisis centers, which have been called many times today. It was the Left Party and the Christian People's Party that made sure in the agreement, which is one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1231	The Labour Party ensured in the previous period that responsibility for the follow-up of rape cases and violence in close relations was powdered by the separation of responsibility between the specialist health service and the primary health service. There are women who are most vulnerable in these cases, and often the same woman is affected by both violence and abuse. The proposal from the Workers' Party and the decision we received in the previous period met, of course, strong resistance from the trade unions, and it had to be a government shift to reverse this. With the Workers' Party in the Ministry of Justice, there were more than 1,200 judges in pay queues at the government change. Several of these were women who were put on hold without the opportunity to plan work, family or private life. Many women at that time had to zone in prisons for and with men. Many women had to zone four in the same room. Now the government has reduced the paycheck to less than 500 judges. It gives more opportunities for value-added compensation to the criminal justice system and the female prisoners. The Labour Party's policy will once again increase the pay queue by decommissioning 454 housing sites in the Netherlands, without any new capacity to take over in Norway. Why do we not hear a word from the Labour Party about this negative women's perspective in their own policies? No, the great words of this debate are obviously meant to camouflage the shadows of their own policies. Violence and abuse prevent equal opportunities and have serious consequences for individuals and society. That is why this is an important backbone of the government's historic commitment to the fight against crime and violence. The police have been strengthened by over three billion. kr, and more than a thousand new police posts have been created after the government change. The clearance rate is increasing. Violence in close relationships, persecution and stalking, forced marriage, trafficking in human beings — every one of these themes affects women to a great extent, and they are strengthened and increased under this government. We're proud of that. The government makes everyday life safer for women in this country. I'm proud of that. The Storing Message shows it in a good way. We still have a way to go in many ways, but this is a big message that reflects the realities of society – ambitious goals, not high-flying rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1244	The Communication states: ‘All people shall have equal rights and opportunities to participate in society, irrespective of gender, functionality, ethnicity, language, religion and sexual orientation.’ There is something all the parties agree on, but there is a disagreement about how this is to be achieved. The Labour Party will resort to coercion, while the Right Party and the Progress Party believe that social change and change of attitude take place through debate, organisation and incentive schemes. I would point out that women in large parts of the world experience strong restrictions on their freedom only because they are women. Fortunately, this is not the case in Norway, but it does not mean that everything is as it should be. That is why the government has set up an active gender equality policy. The government is concerned that gender equality targets must apply to both sexes. The high proportion of boys who do not complete secondary education is a field where the boys are struggling and it is among the areas mentioned in the notification. The government will, among other things, strengthen the knowledge of gender differences in learning outcomes, level of implementation and choice of education, in order to find good measures that will enable more boys to complete further education. Gender equality skills in kindergarten are strengthened to increase the recruitment of men. Furthermore, it facilitates the choice of non-traditional education and careers through, among others, the provision of services for the selection of non-traditional education and careers. recruiting more girls for the real subjects through ‘girls and technology’ and looking at the offers in higher education. Research in women’s health was strongly under-priority before the Right-Fremskritsparte government joined. Research is now prioritised through the Norwegian Research Council. Furthermore, more young women gain experience in entrepreneurship under the auspices of Young Entrepreneurship and arenas are being set up for entrepreneurs in the health and care sector. The Progress Party will stress that kindergarten and school are crucial for gender equality. If we are to achieve an equal society, children must meet the same expectations and be given the same opportunities, regardless of sex. There was certainly no lack of black paint from the Workers' Party and SV in connection with the government change. Among other things, family and working life policies would be excluded. This is thoroughly refuted, among other things. in an article in the Evening Post on 8 March of this year. In reality, there is now more equality in most areas, including several female professors in academia. For the Progress Party, equality and equality do not mean that everyone should choose the same, but that we should have equal opportunities and freedom to make their own choices. We create equality not only through regulation and legislation, but through organisation and incentive schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1268	There are several who have said today that this is a historic day because we adopt a gender equality policy – despite the government. We were very excited when the message came, and personally I was very excited about what was said about the gender-traditional labour market. That was a good description, and I want to say that it was a very correct description, but there were no measures to make any changes in the message. Then I thought it was very good that the majority here in Stortinget today rather decided to come with some measures themselves, including. That we get multiples to get extra credits both in continuing school and in other studies if that is 80 pst. or more of that one gender, that we're dealing with equality scholarships and caring for mentors. One reason I've worked so hard on this is that I want to give our youth twice as many opportunities, and that's what we do if we dare to take on the gender-based work. It's not that hard. Mass can be done with simple measures. We don't need to research that once. We can only, for example, have an equal status officer in the counties. According to the Skeeie selection, there's a lot of things going on where there's a person who has a commitment to equality. But where there are no people who are engaged, nothing happens. So if we have a equality officer, we'll get a good deal on the way. We need to ensure that role models that can be in the youth sphere and help with professional consultation. I know that many of the girls who are car mechanics, who are electricians, use leisure time, when they take time off from work, to travel around and drive with it. But we have to work more systematically to support the girls who do it, but now they do it on their own and on their own initiative. We have to facilitate networking for both the boys and the girls who are untraditional, and then we have to make sure that they get on the network, so that they don't get into a lonely position, but that they enjoy being on their studies. We also need to improve the competence of the consultants. This study is from 2010, it's a little old, but we don't have anything newer, and it was SINTEF that led it among consultants. They asked what the focus of the consultants was on with gender-untraditional choices. 55 pst. said they didn't have any focus at all. So it's simple grip, but more grips as well, which is going to, but I have to take that in the next post. I mean, there's a lot that can be done without us having to figure out so much. We can only start work today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1283	In March this year, the Evening Post – it is so popular in these days – excavated the results of gender equality after more than two years with the Right and Advance Party in government. They could establish that there was progress on almost all fronts. Fewer women work part-time now than when the government took over in 2013, the proportion of cash-assisted children is falling, and the proportion of children in kindergarten is increasing, including minority language. The government has correctly adjusted the maximum price in kindergarten, but at the same time many low-paid people have had cheaper kindergartens, and several have had free core time. In addition, Minister of Health Bent Höie has cleared up the rules so that decision-makers no longer refer to abortion. This was after the Workers' Party did not remove the right to reserve during its eight years in government. In its common antipathy against the government, both the Labour Party and the LO have claimed that this government will abolish the Equality Act. However, the government replaces this with a common law on discrimination, in line with the position of the Committee on Equal Opportunities and Discrimination that a strengthened, common law against discrimination will not only provide legal technical improvements and better protection against multiple discrimination, but also have an important signal effect. Instead, the Labour Party has aligned itself with the Women's Front and the Women's Group Ottar, who believe that women have a more right to a special protection of discrimination than, for example, women. disabled persons. Well, I disagree. However, both this and several of the quota proposals show the left turn of the Labour Party in the process of making political decisions. I am convinced, unlike Jonas Gahr Støre, that the majority of the population is quite different from the majority of the population today, and more in line with the government. Changes don't come about by themselves. In fact, most people agree that drivers of change are a symbiosis of technological progress and economic, cultural and regulatory conditions. It has to be a very specific arrogance to claim all or part of them. In the equality debate, there are two parallel stories in Norway. One is about equality having to be pushed forward by politicians. The second is about changes in society pushing forward certain types of policies. In both cases, changes in laws and regulations are necessary, either to support or accelerate a desired development. We got women to work, said the representative of Trettebergstien. Well, this is wrong. Historically, the Labour Party has ended up in LO when LO has prioritised work for men by removing married women from paid employment. Research shows that in the 1970s, women first came out into work. Then came the kindergarten offer. Twenty years later, there was a father's quota, and only today do we have an almost full childhood coverage. The story of politics coming up above is not correct, but it is thus used to legitimise greater political intervention in society in order to achieve its own policy objectives. That is where the main differences in Norwegian policy go, and so is this debate. So I just want to point out, when you say that this is a historic day, that a minority government sometimes gets a majority against it, so I'm actually a little bit disagreed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1300	First, I want to link some comments to Nordby's post now last. She lives in the error of believing that equality comes by itself, using good words and benevolent thoughts. If one were to follow that reasoning and take the grips Right has taken earlier in history, we would certainly not have been leading in Europe, and also at the world summit, in terms of equality. If we are to change society, women are not only required to want, and, as Nordby rightly says, they went out to work in the 1970s, but it requires a social structure that builds up the few women who started that process, actually got social structures that made this possible. Then we're talking about kindergartens, we're talking about paper school, we're talking about quota. But these historical dividing lines are very recognizable. This is the right of its all, the very best. They continue the tradition they've had through history of going backwards into the future. They argue -- no, that's good enough, we don't need more, this is good, we just have to let people choose for themselves, and it'll solve itself. There is the Workers' Party for a different tradition: we want powerful instruments, and we want a policy that really takes hold, and that leads people to better lives where they live their lives. It is interesting to see today that the Right Party and the Advance Party are all alone. It is interesting to see that the Storting takes a step, despite the fact that the government has had two years to make a gender equality message – which the Storting will not have. There is evidence of a government that does not care about listening, which does not have the ability to develop a policy consistent with what is actually happening in the population. South is a traditional, conservative part of the country. We have major challenges in the South, and I must say that it is regrettable that the representatives of the South do not vote for the strengthening of the Equality Centre in the South. We need a strengthened gender equality centre. We have a major debate down in the South now on women in the media, which is an important political issue, and which the Skjeie Committee also touched on in its report. A powerful gender equality centre could really have taken action to contribute to this. It is true that the government supports an action in the south that is good for equality, but one action is not enough. There should have been an increased focus on this, especially given that one will strengthen regional equality centres. They are needed; they can contribute to gender equality in practice in municipalities and in enterprises — not least in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1311	We've heard here all day that equality is in reverse. There is an untruth that is repeated over and over again by the Workers' Party. The working party may not trust me when I say that it is wrong, until today the evening post was brought forward as proof that the government's message is not good enough. But maybe the Evening Post can be a truth witness to how it really stands, which the Workers' Party can trust. What does the Evening Post say about the status of the so-called reversal? Well, fewer women work part-time today than when the red-greens crashed. More children go to kindergarten. There are fewer people who use the cash support for children, even though the amount has increased, and the proportion of women managers is approximately the same. Despite this, the Labour Party insists that everything is put in reverse. And then they have promoted a long list of proposals they think should solve all the equality problems in Norway. So we say, many of these things are already in the message. And then a specific example is requested from the representative of Grande. I'll bring you one. The Communication states that the government wants to increase the proportion of female directors and to strive to maximise equal representation between women and men in these companies. What are the proposals for the Workers' Party? As they say, ‘set goals about’, ‘job for’, ‘set ambition’. In fact, I would say that the government is more specific on this matter than the proposals made by the Labour Party. That's kind of indicative, because what do the proposals look like? Indeed, an exaggerated belief that more state bureaucracy and more formulations on ambitions and goals towards quotas in state companies must solve everything. These proposals do not solve the major structural challenges of gender equality in Norway today. And that's right, as the Workers' Party says, equality doesn't come of itself. However, it is not only possible to decide on all the challenges, and more women in Telenor or Statoil will have limited impact. For what is the status also after eight red-green years? Yes, we still have Europe's most gender-based labour market. Almost 40 pst. of women working part-time, many involuntary. 70 pst. by public sector employees are women, against 30 pst. in the private sector. We continue to face great challenges of violence in close relationships. All these are challenges that the government's message discusses and provides some answers. In the debate on gender equality, the left has an excessive belief in regulation, bureaucracy and the public as the way to the perfect equal society, but then there are anti-regulatory regulations that actually have an effect, such as: the moderate changes we made to the Working Environment Act. Similarly, they almost have an allergy to recognising that attitudes play a role in development. Equality is not only created by the public, it is created in the labour market, in the family, in the voluntary sector and in education. So this so-called parking lot that it's claimed to be happening here today, I live well with it. In fact, we go further in the government's notice than the proposals that come from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1322	I want to praise the job that has been done with this message. While some parties will introduce more detailed management, more bureaucracy and more public funds, the government stands for a line that embraces widely, provides good leadership, and opens up freedom of choice in some areas of society and family life. With the background of the defense, I know very well the concept of "intention-based management". This means that it is impossible, and not desirable, for a manager to manage everything in detail. I perceive that the government is pursuing a policy of equality well in line with this sensible philosophy – and liberalist tradition – and I am a little overstated by some parties' desire to go into detail, with quotas and coercion. I think the reasoning of the representative of Trettebergstuen earlier today about the need to use coercion to give people freedom of choice, to testify to a human vision that suggests that Norwegian men and women are not able to make their own free elections in relation to equality – a human vision I do not share. The Labour Party also claims that family, labour and welfare policies have the most impact on equality in a society. At least this statement is not universal, as I experience it. I want to use the opportunity to tell you about a personal experience I have with gender equality in an international context. As Norwegian Chief of Staff in Defense, I had the pleasure of having the very demanding, challenging and frustrating task of being ‘genter adviser’ — translated into ‘sex adviser’ in Norwegian — for the NATO coalition in ISAF and Resolute Support Mission in Kabul in Afghanistan from December 2013 to March 2015. In a country like Afghanistan, equality begins with respect for human rights and equality for the law. If a few go to it in a gender-based society like Afghanistan, a few more women have to get into the police and defense, women who can work specifically to give Afghan women the protection and equal rights they have under the law and the Afghan constitution. This may come as a surprise to some, but when I left Afghanistan in 2015, we, together with the Afghan authorities and international partners, had made it clear over the years to recruit, train and employ a total of 4,000 women in the police and defence in Afghanistan. This work is also continuing today, and in the long term I hope it can be an important contribution to gender equality in that country. Therefore, the fact that the government in the Communication states that Norway’s international gender equality work should take care of the gender perspective across the broad spectrum of foreign and development policy, I believe that it is very important. We have a long and good tradition of human rights and equality in many areas of society in Norway. This knowledge must be shared in solidarity with countries with greater equality challenges than we do in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1339	Presenting a gender equality message today is expected to be a political desire for gender equality and measures that contribute to a more equal society. The Progress Party wants equality to come about on its own, but it simply spends our time, because action is needed now. Time and again, history has shown that without action, little is happening. When the longtime group leader of Statoil Helge Lund said he was finished in the company, the media raised several female candidates – including the group director of the company, Margareth Øvrum. Firer Sætre was hired. Shortly thereafter, Jon Fredrik Baksaas was ready to thank for himself in Telenor. Also, several women were appointed to take over the boss’s job. Sigve Breek was hired. In total, there are only female top managers in 5 of the 47 companies in which the state has a significant holding. This concerns the Flytrain, Innovation Norway, Municipal Bank, Baneservice and Petoro. Some companies have very little representation of women in group management. This applies to both Statoil, Mesta, Nammo and Statkraft, where there is only one woman in top management. NSB has none. On international rankings, they place us in 50th place when they examine gender balance among leaders at all levels – in both the public and private sectors. Plus 32 pst. women leaders and are far behind countries such as the United States, Iceland, Sweden and New Zealand. It's worth noting that the nations that have the most female leaders are Jamaica, Colombia and Panama, which have about 50-60 pst. female leaders. When we get that bad, we can ask ourselves if Norwegian women are not well qualified enough to take that kind of position. If we go to the level of education, we see that there are many more women than men who take higher education. So this is it's hard to understand the relationship in. It shows that there are political decisions that need to be taken and followed in order to avoid general barriers and other demands that more women than men are faced with on their way up the career path. That is why we have now received a number of important proposals to increase the proportion of women in Norwegian business management in this communication, and we are very pleased about that. We need to focus on the fact that not only do men run recruitment processes but they have a much better gender distribution, and we need to contribute to a change in attitudes around women in the management of the different workplaces. It's a cross of thought when Facebook boss Sheryl Sandberg writes in the book "Lean in" that the more successful a man has, the better like he is of both women and men. When a woman does success, she becomes poorly like both women and men. So to the Progress Party: equality doesn't come of itself. We have to help raise this issue and not have a wait-and-see attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1352	We stand on the shoulders of fighters – many brave women, and some men, who have for a hundred years paved the way for equality. Someone says they've been driving by force. They don't. This is about freedom. The champions of equality are the greatest freedom heroes of our time – those who have fought for young girls and boys today to grow up as freer people with the opportunity to choose their own lives. This has not come about by itself. Those who have walked away have sacrificed a lot on the road. They have met closed doors and not chosen the simplest way. We owe all those who have gone ahead, to go further, because the greatest threat to equality is the belief that we have it, the belief that we are in goal. Because we're a long way away. In almost all areas, we have a long way to go. Today the Storting goes part of that way when we reject the government's step back. For the Workers' Party, equality goes like a red thread throughout our history, from the women of the fireworks workers to Gro Harlem Brundtland's women's reign and to Jens Stoltenberg's human role selection. We're used to the fact that when the left-hand side controls, the big equality vows are taken, and when the right-hand parts control, it's silent. The new thing about Erna Solberg and Solveig Horne is that equality doesn't stand still. It's being reset, and there's nothing the Workers' Party says. No, the Minister for Gender Equality said that herself when she met in Stortinget after the government change. Then she said, ‘The critique of the past few weeks is that we are immature, and some say that we have put Norway back into the 1950s. Then I want to say that I agree with those who say that we might be the retro government. Retro is known as being back again and modern again.» Retro in the equality struggle is not modern. We don't want to go back in time, we want to go forward. That is why tough policy instruments are needed. We heard Mette Tønder in his post using percentage feminism almost as a sceptical word in the debate, and in a debate on equality, I understand that it is unpleasant to see the percentages – that women earn 80 pst. Of what men do, women do more than 30 pst. of the housework at home, at 8 pst. of the employees of the nursery are men, that 10 pst. by women, they are subjected to violence. That's these percentages we want to live. For feminism is about changing reality, not analysing it. We've done it before because we've set up, made demands, tent, paved the way. The government is not in line with the people. When the record number came up on March 8, the Prime Minister said that this was very special, and that they had misunderstood. When it was a general strike, the government said the people didn't understand. And today we have heard that when you say that this is a big message without content, we have not read it well enough. It's probably just because we've got a message that's coming to an end, that today is going to be historic. All lots, except for the government parties, are now gathering on decisions that will change Norway. Today we are continuing the fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1370	I'm a feminist and organized in a feminist party because I want liberation, because people shouldn't be born into booths, into narrow gender roles, and because the story of the natural, of what suits women and men, of how to dress and behave, has always been used to keep people – and especially women – down. It may be difficult to measure the degrees of social freedom, of sexual freedom, of legal and economic freedom. But at least one thing is certain, that when the vision is there – yes, you never approach by going back. The representative, Mr Wold, from the Progressive Party, said earlier in the debate that equality is a Norwegian value. But the fact that women's life is almost unrecognizable today in relation to what it was like a hundred years ago, is no evolution; there is no law of nature. It's a result of well-organized forces, of time and tears and wake-ups. The heroes we can today thank and look back on with pride have not been honoured in their time, they have been hottened, and the right side has consistently opposed. The Wold and the Advance Party would like to call equality a value, but in that struggle, the Advance Party has consistently been on the wrong side. Then I think it is discouraging that we have a government with no ability or desire to take real initiatives in gender equality policy. I believe that the exchange of lines here instead showed very clearly, and I believe that the message bears the very basic mark of it. You lean on previous policies. I am pleased that the analyses that have been submitted today are presented, but they say that you do not want to do anything yourself. You rely on what exists, and cuts, but without necessarily tearing everything down. It's essentially passive. And what happens when you stand still? Then you will gradually be moved back. The representative, Bru, was instead saying that there are fewer people working part-time now. There may be complex reasons for that, but one thing is certain: it was heavy programs, 75 million. kr was spent over three years working for a full-time culture in working life under the red-green government. We instructed health companies to reduce part-time work and to focus on gender equality work in municipalities. The figures we see today are equally the result of red-green policies, but we know that the results will be different if there is a passive policy that is being promoted, and the policy is going in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1383	The main objective of the right-hand healthcare policy is to provide the patient with healthcare. We are committed to a strong commitment to an equal and non-discriminatory healthcare in the future. In terms of health, it is important that research into women’s health is a priority in regional health businesses through governance requirements and that we have a national competence service that generates important knowledge in this area. I am particularly pleased that the government in the gender equality report clearly highlights the need for priority research on the health, working life and health of older women and the health of minority women. In these areas, there is a need for more knowledge and competence about why we have health inequalities between men and women. I prefer the last one in the election between the vulture rhetoric about equality and the practical policy on equality. For this reason, the government in the year’s budget took one of the most important commitments for women’s health. From 2016, all women up to 26 years of age have access to a free vaccine against HPV in order to avoid cervical cancer. Finally, women who were older than 12 years of age at the time of the introduction of the vaccine may receive this, or women who were 12 years of age at the time and who for various reasons rejected no, or women who have moved to Norway and who have not received the offer as part of the paediatric vaccination programme, where one may receive the vaccine. Mortality cancer is the most common form of cancer in women under 35 years of age and the third most common form of cancer affecting women in general. This is an action that could have been implemented as early as 2009. The previous government did not prioritise money for this in its budgets. Therefore, the allocation of the procurement or procurement programme is a major victory for the health of young women. Gender equality in health is also about much more. It's about how you can get a better gender balance in the workforce. I record that the Workers' Party is engaged in strict state regulations, quotas and mentoring schemes to get more men into a sector that is overweight of women. I think it's the wrong medicine. The last time I checked, it was that in Italy there are one in four nurses men, in Norway one in nine. Italy has not done anything special to recruit men. They introduced nurse training 30 years after Norway, and they may have more traditional gender roles than what we have in Norway, but one in four are nurses, so they are men. I think it's about that we need a cultural change out there. It is a matter of continuing the commitment made by this government to empowerment, to bet on leaders who provide an equal work force and who support and build up male health workers, who are currently experiencing both bullying and harassment at work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1397	There has been a clear debate – I think the lines of division have become clear in the many speeches. Just a few comments: First of all, Tritenbergstien initiated the debate today by stating that something was wrong because the nursery calls several times to Mother than to Father. The facts in that case I can't, but if that's the case, it's for our part right, because I expect in most kindergartens and in high school that's the way we have it: we report who they're going to call first, who's the number. 2 on the list, and who is no. 3rd@item: inlistbox So one has chosen to call Mom first. If the statistics then are that mom calls the most, we think it's a good solution, because you've chosen it. So to Kari Henriksen, who presented a direct challenge to the representatives of the South, who today would not grant money to the Gender Equality Centre in the South. No, then we'll probably have to talk again when we get to the budget debate. In previous budget debates, we have been diligent about this. ‘Women and technology’, which is based on Agder, has included this Council of State as an important programme for gender equality and has given money to it. The centres have been strengthened by millions of dollars, and the pilot project on Agder has been strengthened. Then we'll see what's going on in future budgetary discussions. Then we're all over explanations. There are a lot of requests for why we are not involved in these proposals. Firstly, I have to say that there is a challenge to a matter in which so many parties are involved, and so many parties are not in the committee. It makes it difficult to deal with proposals that come in the last night. Yesterday evening we got clarity in many proposals, which we were going to decide on. Some of them have budgetary implications – we take that into account in the budget. Some of them describe what is already described in the message – we don't have to go for another time. Some of them could easily – if we had worked together before – have been rewritten so that we could gather about them. And some of us disagree in principle. It's totally curative. To the violent rhetoric that it is absolutely terrible that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not support all these proposals: there are many explanations, and there we stand with our straight backs. Otherwise, some are unprecise. When it is said that government leadership groups will consist of ‘40 percent of both sexes’, we have an calculation that does not go up. We probably have to have a majority of Left's proposals for a third gender in order to get 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1412	As a health politician, I get into more situations where people experience discrimination, and where it is clear to the outside world that they are actually being discriminated against. It's not acceptable. Historically, diseases that most affect men have received greater attention than diseases that a majority of women receive, and more men than women are previously included in clinical studies. This means that there may still be a lack of knowledge about disease that is more typical for women. In the health sector, we have 40 pst. female top managers. It sounds pretty good, but in a sector where almost eight out of ten employees are women, the number should probably be higher. At health business level, only one in four directors is women. In joint activities in the specialist health service, only 6 out of 32 managers are women. Just as there are few women in top management, there are few men who have direct contact with patients and who work as nurses and in other care professionals. Today it's about 10 pst. men in care professionals in Norway. That number's too low. We have a lot to gain from increasing the proportion of men, and studies show that better gender balance will also increase well-being at work. So we have to look at men as an opportunity and figure out what it takes for men to enter the care profession. With this as the starting point, the government has taken action. As early as 2010, the municipality of Trondheim started a project to recruit more men for the care sector. The project was successful, and in 2014 the Ministry of Health and Health assigned KS to continue this project. As I mentioned at the outset, as a health politician, I meet several gender issues. One of the largest is probably the high part-time share among women. All 74 pst. part-time jobs, many involuntary. This is something you have to do with. Unfortunately, the trend is not seen among men, who are in the same situation in other professions. But I don't despair. I am, in fact, both happy and proud to be able to tell that this government has great objectives and equal measures for the equality challenge. I know that the government is doing well to create the patient's healthcare, a healthcare service where the patient's needs are going to be at the center, and not who they are. The government will give priority to research, for example: The health, working life and health of older women and of minority groups in the strategic focus on women’s health, under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, increase knowledge of the cause of undesirable differences in the provision of health and services between women and men in a life-cycle perspective, ensure that up-to-date knowledge on the specific needs of men and women is used, provide better prevention, diagnosis, treatment and mastery of diseases that lead to long-term health messages and disability among women — in addition to a number of other measures, but due to time, I have no chance of going through all. In addition, the government will also ensure that healthcare contributes to better opportunities for active participation in society and working life for young and elderly women with mental and other health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1425	The debate so far shows a government that is behind, government parties that are struggling to defend their own backward-looking policy, and which is therefore now parked in Stortinget. "We understood the time we lived in, and gave answers to the people believed in." This is a quote from Trygve Bratteli, but it is a quote we should listen to today and have as a guide when we politicians make politics. This is where the government fails. They don't follow in time, don't see the reality that most people live in, the challenges people face, and what people need politics to do. Not unexpectedly, therefore, the government provides people with solutions that they do not want – the right to reserve abortion, cut in father’s allowances, increased cash support, more expensive kindergartens and longer queues. The representative Hoksrud just stood here and said that one will involuntary part-time to life. One of the first things this government did was to remove the part-time pot in the state budget that the red-green government introduced, that went to action locally, and that produced results. When people protest against government policy, they are told that they have not understood. But people who experience impunity because of sex, girls who lose their jobs because they're pregnant, or dads who don't get to take leave -- none of these get drag help in their fight of government parties today -- none. Because pointing to the challenges and cheering on people doesn't help. No, the task of politics is to tear down the obstacles that people face, so that everyone can hold their peace, and then people can choose how they want to live their lives. Earlier today, the representative Harberg was concerned that the debate is too much about men and women, that it is too vague on gender identity. It's strange to say, because in the setting of the big message it's only the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party who are concerned that the gender perspective is more than just men and women. There have been many anecdotes and stories in lack of action here today. We have heard of Tønder's daughter and people the council has met, and of Eidem Løvaas' life. It's typically this government, basing its policy on brother-in-law research and anecdotes and not listening to either people or professionals. It is very nice that Eidem Løvaas knows a homo, but the majority of people today are more concerned that the government is now getting its finger out and coming with the action plan we have been promised for LHBT people. The government is passive, they're talking. I'm happy with the bulk of the population now moving on and putting the cabinet in place. We need a more offensive gender equality policy. Unfortunately, this government is not involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1440	The President would point out that there are more parliamentary expressions than ‘getting the finger out’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1443	Then I don't have to do that. No major social change occurs without the individual being involved and fighting for change, nor equality. For me, equality and equality do not mean a desire that everyone should choose the same, but that all people should have equal opportunities and rights. Women, men and families must have the freedom to make their own choices, including those that the Workers' Party does not like. The State shall lay down the framework and legislation to ensure equality and equality, but within these frameworks and legislation there must also be room for people to make their own commitments. That's where blue equality policy differs from the red one. Where the Workers' Party believes that it is almost a failed statement that themes such as maternity leave and distribution should be taken over the kitchen table, the Right Ring around the family's freedom to choose. Where the Labour Party believes that everything is fixed by quota, Right knows that injustice does not fix problems, even when injustice is done in the service of good. Where the Workers' Party is occupied with a near-calculator feminism, Right is actually concerned that people have to make their own choices. Where the Workers' Party is committed to imposing and prohibiting, we are committed to making demands and ensuring equal opportunities for people. There are challenges in Norway today, the same challenges that the red-greens had for eight years in their reign, but we must not forget that much is going well too. Many have referred to the article of the Evening Post. It shows that the number of women who work involuntary part-time is falling, the number of female professors is increasing, the proportion of children in kindergarten is increasing. According to the SSB, there's equal pay between women and men now. The proportion of women in leading positions is 49 pst, respectively. in the departments and 52 pst. in the outer floors. Even I come from a municipality where almost everyone is in senior positions, whether administrative or political, are women. And we have female Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. We're not in all areas, and we're going to have a sober picture of the status and the way forward – but I don't feel the rarity of equality in these numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1460	We haven't parked, we're going forward. It's a shame the Storting has such a debate. One indicates that this is a historic day – yes, a historic day for increased bureaucracy and increased detail management. We don't want to be participants. But we're going to bring along the little bouquet that's that we're getting behind proposal number. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. I've said that before. We are also building good gender equality paths, but we need to look at budgetary processes and action plans. There have been requests for examples of proposals that have already been addressed. We could have numbered our suggestions, but it's going to be completely wrong because many of our suggestions have already been implemented. But I'm still going to include some of the suggestions that I might see getting multiples at voting: ‘The government is asking for the design and introduction of credits for boys and girls applying for lines in secondary schools where, for example, 80 per cent or more of the opposite sex, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Here, there may be special challenges for girls on educational programmes with a high priority for boys, and vice versa. One of the biggest challenges in continuing training today, to which we want to focus, is the low implementation. Getting through school, isn't it the most important thing? We know that motivation is important for implementation, and that admission to the first choice is important for the motivation of the individual student. We're busy with that. A system of allowances may be a disadvantage in this context, and I believe a system of allowances will have a limited effect on the gender distribution of the various educational programmes. And then there's another suggestion: ‘The government is asked by the government through the governance dialogue to encourage more women to participate in the academic recruitment committees, as well as to make employment open and inclusive.’ State, development, loan anchoring and gender equality reporting are analysed and evaluated in the context of the governance dialogue held by the Ministry of Knowledge with universities and universities. Where necessary, the question is addressed in the institutional administration meeting. So to the proposal that I had a line on, where a 'bes the government to establish its own tripartite cooperation for increased equality'. Cooperation on equal opportunities in employment was established between the authorities and the main organisations on the employers’ and employers’ page in 2014. I thought they should take that responsibility, and I trust so much that they will do so if they want to appoint a sub-selection to bring about more equality. That's the kind of faith I actually have in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1485	It is below the government parties that in the opposition we do not fully trust the government in these matters, and they are quite right in that. I have gone through what the Minister for Gender Equality has said about these things before she became Minister for Gender Equality. This shows that this concern is correct. In 2011, the current Minister for Gender Equality said that boys and girls have equal responsibility for rape. In September 2013, she said that trans-persons have to comply with the patient law, that's where they belong. In 2010 she said that the gender equality agency should be removed because it cost 50 million. and was not really necessary. It is possible that there has been such an ‘extreme makeover’ here, at least in the outside, but it shows that it is not a thoughtful feminist who is a minister of equality. I've been a feminist all my life -- it's getting far -- and I've been in a lot of the fights that have been, and there have been single representatives from the Right who have been on them. That's absolutely right. But from the Progress Party, I've never seen anyone – never anyone. Firstly, equality is worth more than oil for Norway. It is much, much, much more profitable for Norway than we have found oil. If we get it even better, it goes a lot better for the country. Equality is freedom from violence. Why, for example, is it not? reverse violent alarm, adopted a long time ago, in place and used? Why does the Minister not consider strong measures to extend its use? Some of the worst limitation anyone can experience is that the perpetrator of violence goes free, while the victim of violence must lock himself in and restrict himself. The other is about work and income: why do you have schemes where you pay women to stay away from work and education, and where you pay children to stay away from kindergartens? It doesn't make any sense. You have to control your body yourself. Why, then, does the government promote proposals for reservation rights? In the case of cardboard, I'm very much for paper, and I want to expand it. I'll do that first and foremost for the sake of children and for the sake of father, because children have the right to their father. They have the right to be as safe on their father as on their mother. They deserve the safe nurses. That it is good for equality between women is also important, but this is primarily a good measure of equality between fathers and the right to care that children have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1502	The centre party has made known in articles here that we have our own suggestions, and that we support some of the suggestions from other parties. I would like to make it clear that, when it comes to the proposals from the Left, the Central Party supports the proposal No. 49, 50, 55, 56, 58, 59, 61 and 62. So there's a clarification to our proposal No. 67 and 68. Proposal No. 67 is an alternative to proposal No. 13 in the vote, and proposal No. 68 is an alternative to proposal No. 14 - not 12 and 13, as we have written. Proposal No. 67 is in the hands of a worker to have at least 40 psts of senior management groups in companies where the state has ownership, directorates and state budgets. Of both sexes, one has entered the word "minimum", not just that it should consist of 40 pst. of both sexes. Then it goes up, the math that the Progress Party had a little bit of a problem with here in an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1509	The representative, Mr Berge, then presented the vote and proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1512	Just before the Stoltenberg II government went off, it was sent out on a hearing proposal for a new stalking law. A lot of women in Norway are being persecuted and stalked, and my committee colleague Anders B. Werp put it up in his article earlier today. What Mr. Werp did not say was that this government has now spent two years proposing a stalking law that is identical to the Stoltenberg II government. There is no evidence of action, and the Labour Party, together with the opposition, called for this law over a year and a half ago. It's too slow. I also want to say as the representative, Karin Andersen, that when it comes to the need for the reversal of the electoral alarm, all parties have a few things to say about it. We wrote about it together in a proposal from the Labour Party last year. It hasn't happened either. So I want one to be more forward-looking when it comes to working on just this. The representative, Mr Werp, is trying to polarize the debate on the election in close relation. That's not really necessary. We're very specific about very much when it comes to power in close relationships. But I am provoked – and that was probably the meaning – when he suggests that the previous government only floats with high-flying rhetoric. The previous government sends its own big message on selected in close relationships — full of measures and more than 70 million. kr. Message received praise from both position and opposition. And it is a message that today is followed by today's government – I am pleased about it. The establishment of children's houses, I believe, was important here – also made by the previous government. But that's when -- now you're now. There is a lot to be done in the area of power in close relationships that is good, but I also have to remind you that in the budget before Christmas there had to be a struggle in order for the government not to cut off the office of victims of violence, one had to fight to strengthen the supply of crisis. The Labour Party has also made a number of proposals in the UK to strengthen the crisis centre supply, which has been downgraded. The Minister of Equal Opportunities is proud today. Then I wonder what the Council of State is proud of, because we have heard here that this message is full of good actions, but no one is talking about the measures. What's in this message that's actually going to lead the equality forward, except that a challenge is that people have to talk more about it? Unio says that there is no historical measure of equality in this message. The LO indicates that this government has no equality policy, and the Joint Police Association says that the measures are completely absent. Then I would have liked to see the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party being much more concrete in their posts and showing the measures that they think will lead the equality forward. We think that what's here is too bad, it leads equality in reverse, and I'm glad that the opposition takes responsibility and proposes a series of proposals that will promote equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1527	When you are so concerned about black-painting and polarising this debate as the case-rapporteur is, it becomes a little strange to ask that the government parties join more action points than the 66 that have already been proposed by the government. One third of the proposals are really little disagreements. The government will increase the number of women in government and leadership, the majority has an ambition to do so. Then I think it's okay that the government is clearer, and there's no need to go down to our own level of ambition. One third of the proposals are not even proposed by the Workers' Party, for example. the establishment of a national mentoring system for girls and boys starting training in which the second sex is a large majority. And one third of the proposals are, in fact, disagreements. But some people obviously believe that positive changes in working life come from the party office at Youngstorget alone. There is a difference between ‘policy-setting’ – as the representative of the Trettebergstuen said – and policy taking over, for example. by using companies in which the State is a minority shareholder, as a political tool for the Storting. It is not good for the companies and probably in violation of the ownership message that Stortinget has unanimously stood behind. It also means that not all proposed measures lead to improvements. In their own gender equality message, for example, the Workers' Party itself notes that it is difficult to identify the effect of the obligation to provide information. When this government proposes to replace this with positive actions such as information, dissemination of good experience and development of competences, it is no longer good enough. Then the policy must no longer take over, but must no longer take over. The applicant’s rapporteur started the day with the fact that the gender equality message does not contain one single measure that will contribute to increasing equality. The representative before me requested that we talk about some of these measures, but the measures are not recognised. One of them, for example. the government's proposal to increase the competence for equal opportunities in kindergartens and to increase the recruitment of men for educational work. This is not an action, according to the Labour Party, because they wanted to have their own formulation of it. It is rather a programme for boys and girls to choose education across gender stereotypes, which the government already supports — nor is it an action, according to the Workers’ Party. No, because there is really only one response in gender equality policy, and it is not that policy should be set up, but that policy should take over – through increased quotas and more coercive means in what is already one of the world's most equal countries. But I actually don't know what position I'm most surprised at. The will to polarise and blackmail the debate on the part of the Labour Party is not. That a liberal party like the Left now on several points confesses not to a progressive but to a radical equality policy, is one of them, or that the Christian People's Party elects itself a party that uses every opportunity to blackmail them as darknessmen in matters of value, instead of the party that has actually stood loyal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1541	I understand that Nordby Lunde doesn't fully understand what has hit her party, but there are actually several parties that want to go in a different direction, and that's what we see the result of here today. I just want to make some comments to the representative, Werp, who was up here talking about justice policy and also about prison and women. The only major issue we have received from the Ministry of Justice in terms of criminal justice was a big deal, and there was no mention of measures for women. They're spending more than 270 million. In all prisons in Norway, including those in charge of women, the number of Kr per year for men in the Netherlands, while the number of Kr per year for men in the Netherlands, including Kr per year for women. The Labour Party, unlike the Government, has every year submitted budget proposals that are earmarked for women. The Equality Ombudsman has said that they will go into the situation of women in prison in 2016, which is a priority task. That's something the Workers' Party is wholeheartedly supporting, and we're looking forward to the results that are coming. The Minister of Justice also has responsibility for gender equality policy in his own department, and until we got a female minister, it was almost free for women politicians in the Ministry of Justice. We see that the gender equality in that department in terms of administrative positions has gone back. It has become worse in many areas, and the Minister of Justice has received strong criticism from professional organisations for his gender policy. So that criticism from the justice politician, Werp, I find a little strange. One of the reasons why we can stand here today and discuss how far we have come in gender equality policy is a provision that this government is also proposing to remove, and that is the provision for reporting and reporting obligations. The Government proposes to remove it in the consultation note that has been sent about changes to the Equality Act. If we hadn't had the overview that we have, and that makes us stand here and talk about gender inequality in the departments, the lack of equality in the kindergartens, the lack of equality in the higher education sector and the education sector, then we would have been much less equipped to meet the challenges that we have. When right-wing representatives talk about bureaucrats, we should listen carefully. The Labour Party is happy in good bureaucrats, we want good bureaucrats. There was something the Progress Party decided to remove, but we see that they have now given up that promise, and that they want, and that there will be more bureaucrats in the departments with the Advance Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1554	Equality is important, and I feel that the debate we have had today, which is now beginning to go out in the fifth hour, shows that the Storting is united that there are mechanisms in society that benefit both women and men in different arenas. Gender equality policy is therefore also important. I'm going to strike a blow for the very most important platform to give equal opportunities to everyone, regardless of background or gender, and that's the school. In school today – although we are used to talking about women’s under-representation in many areas in the gender equality debate – we know that it is the boys who are increasingly slowing down. In high school, boys have weaker grades than girls in all subjects except gym. Boys drop out of high school much more often before it is completed, and young men are overrepresented in social security statistics and in outreach. Then it can be said that the approach from the left has been for very many years – as an explanation of this – that there have been too many women in school and too few men. I am primarily concerned with recruiting more teachers to Norwegian school, not so much of the share of each sex. You've looked at whether that's the reason, and the answer is that it's not. There are some schools in Norway that stand out because they do not have this gender difference. So it's like boys and girls do the same thing. What characterizes these schools is that they have a policy to lift all students, not their own boy projects, not their own quota schemes, but a policy that says that all weak students, regardless of gender, should be lifted. It's schools that have a culture of good class management and discipline, where it's quiet in the hour, and where the boys also perform better. It's very easy to agree on the problem, but when we come to the solutions, it turns out that the best solution very often is to have a policy to raise the weak, regardless of gender, because it will also remove the misunderstanding that is, that there are no girls struggling at school, or so there are no boys who are very good at school. Although statistics can show that one sex is overrepresented, each student needs to focus on. Another thing we know is that boys and young men are overrepresented in suicide statistics. Some of the reason is that boys are unfortunately not as good as girls to talk about the problems they have. An example of someone who has tried to solve this successfully is the municipality of Asker, who introduced a boy project where every Wednesday there were only boys who got to the health center. First, there was just someone, and they talked most about physical distress. Gradually they began to talk about their feelings. Gradually, the boys began to come on the second day as well. They didn't because someone decided that now there was going to be an allowance for the number of boys in the health center. You did that by lowering the threshold and by having a policy to raise everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1567	For those representatives from the Right and the Advance Party who show a considerable amount of dissatisfaction from the pulpit today, I might be able to make their day better by making them think of the package of measures that are being adopted today as a really public health measure. We have had a lot of research in recent years to show that high-equality countries have increased well-being, fewer depressions, less family violence, increased fertility, and that equal couples are more satisfied – in short, equality makes us happier. So even though the representatives Bru, Nordby Lunde, Eidem Løvaas and Tønder are a little dissatisfied today, what the majority are doing today is actually a long-term investment in their future mood and well-being. I have great respect for, among other things. The representatives Bru and Nordby Lunde. It is almost impossible to have at least respect for those representatives who are able to see actions and results where no one else sees them. One must also have respect for the lonely struggle they are now engaged in. Specter, Unio, LO, Gender Equality Ombudsman, researchers and a wide range of others are simply in disagreement with the government parties and have been very critical of a gender equality message that does not have concrete measures. Why not? It is because these parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, will not really look at the structures, regulations and laws that affect the choices we make and that affect family and working life. That is why today we have a sort of straw straw debate, where we talk about prisons, bureaucrats and schooling, for example. in the context of efforts to reduce non-response, which is agreed by almost all the parties in this room, but will not have its own measures to promote equality. The representative Bru said earlier today that she thought the government went further than the proposals the majority has made today. It would have been interesting for everyone here to know what measures the representative Bru or Right and the Progress Party think this is the case. What measures by the government go beyond the opposition in relation to equality? What does the modern family need, and what can the Right Party and the Advance Party actually offer men and women today? Cutting the father's quota doesn't give me as a man more freedom, nor less. Removing allowances gives me nothing, except for a less diverse working life. Eliminating measures against part-time work does nothing for women, even for men, who are still being pushed into traditional gender roles, with mothers as caregivers and caregivers. That is why we need active action, because gender equality policy is simply using policy instruments to give men and women equal opportunities – not that every man and woman should fight their personal gender equality struggle, at each of their kitchen tables or at each of their employers, which is what the government is still up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1580	Many of the young people of the Right today have spent time talking about equality bureaucrats as something negative, which they will live to see. ‘Equality Bureaucrat’ is a scissor’s word, which is what you’re banging down on. Who are these equal opportunities bureaucrats that Right-wing people want to live? Is it those who are in the lodge who are with the Council of State here today? These are those who work at the Equality Ombudsman, and who work almost every day to help, for example. Young girls who are about to lose their jobs because they are pregnant? Is that who they want to live? Is it the six people in Hamar who have done the research on gender in kindergarten that the government refers to in the big-time news? Or is it the reform boy who every day sets the agenda for what gender equality challenges men face? I'm just asking, because it's these people who are making sure that politicians' goals, visions and decisions become realities in people's lives, they're spending their time haggling with. We're going to thank these people, we, for working every day for most people to experience more freedom in their lives. Today's debate once again shows a government and representatives of the government parties who do not listen and do not understand. It has been said here in the past that there is no sense in the opposition now proposing its own tripartite cooperation for equality, because it already has. No, we don't! I recommend the representatives to read the gender equality study that was the basis for our big message, which suggested their own tripartite cooperation – a little after the model of the IA agreement – because it works when the parties join together, set goals and work concretely to achieve them. It is not the same as having some meetings in the Employment and Pension Policy Council, where you talk about gender equality. We have major gender equality challenges in Norway, and many of them we find in the labour market. They are associated with a very different division of work and care within the family. Equal pay is such a challenge. We have to address these challenges in a different way than just pointing at them and talking about them, but it shows the government no ability or willingness to do. I think the debate today is starting to be quite absurd. Firstly, the government parties and their members believe that the notification is good. Some believe that the Labour Party and the opposition go too far in their proposals, but at the same time they agree with everyone. What proposals are we promoting that they agree with, and we really don't have to promote? They have to tell us. I rather think the government parties and their members could be honest and say: Yes, we are satisfied with our message, we stand on it, we do not want to use political power or money to bring equality forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1591	There has been a good debate with quite a lot of rhetoric and assertions that I could use the rest of the day to clarify. But I'm not going to spend time on that. I am pleased that the representative Trettebergstuen now acknowledges the guy from Reform, to whom the previous government has actually cut off its support and which we have managed to get in place. There have been some questions about this criticism going into me. There are many things that go into my mind, but I'm glad that the exact criticism that comes here now doesn't go into me. This is because, for the first time, we have promoted and debated a communication in the United Kingdom that raises the main challenges of gender equality in Norway, one of the world’s most equal countries — the challenges we face in terms of violence, health, the gender-based labour market, education and business. Yes, there are concrete measures here. Then we can discuss whether they are clear enough, whether there are several measures that should have been implemented, and whether there should have been more money in the budget. The government has put forward concrete proposals, which have also been followed up in the budget, and which we will follow further. It's a little confusing to listen to the Trettebergstien. When I meet her in debate and she talks about equality and that there is equality in reverse this government is leading, yes, then she's talking about father's quota, cash support, increased kindergarten prices or queues in kindergartens. Then I am glad that the proposals that lead equality in reverses, as the Trettebergstuen mentions, do not support them in this matter. Today, she has chosen a different solution – now it’s up to us to need more structure and more bureaucracy. The Trettebergstuen has been involved in tripartite cooperation. Then I am very happy to say that in 2014 – under this gender equality minister from the Progress Party – there was a cooperation on equal opportunities in employment between the authorities and the main organisations on the labour and employers sides. Cooperation is anchored in the Labour Policy Council and a separate working group has been set up under that Council. One of the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is that they want the government to make an annual statement. Yes, I am happy to do that, but I record that there has been no tradition for this. The last Labour Party Council to make such a statement was Sylvia Brustad in 1997. There are several proposals that are contained here, which I do not think are necessary at all, because there are concrete measures that are contained in the Single European Act. The Trettebergstuen also takes up the part-time project of the previous government, a three-year project that was completed in 2013, and accuses this government of terminating it. It was the previous government that completed its own project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1612	I am not surprised at all when the Council of State says that this debate does not go into her. Nothing goes into this Council of States – there are no messages coming in, either before, during or after the preparation of the notification. There we stand today, and the Stortinget must actually outrun the State Council in order for us to bring about equality in Norway a few steps ahead. I record that the government parties themselves are somewhat uncertain about what they are actually promoting, and how many measures they have. The debate began with Mette Tønder speaking warmly about her lying awake all night and speaking and coming to 70. Heidi Nordby Lunde just said that 66 measures were now being taken. If we just keep the debate going a little bit longer, we're probably approaching the real number, which is zero. Tina Bru made a statement in the Evening Post. I'm a little uncertain about what Right wants to achieve by bringing forward that proposal. That gives us a good opportunity to look at what's right there. Firstly, we see that the number of cash subsidies is falling despite what the government has proposed, and that shows that the government's policy in that area is not working. So it's pointed out that the number of women in part-time positions goes down. Yes, it is mainly due to the multi-time paragraph and the many proposals launched by the red-green government, which are now being used actively in many municipalities to give women greater jobs – and many full-time jobs. Then we can look at the kindergarten. Before the election, right-wing representatives jumped their feet off and told us that there's going to be a continuous recording just to the power -- some of them are new in this room. The fasitite is more expensive kindergarten and longer queues. As far as cardboard is concerned, 2015 is the first year that fathers are taking out fewer father days – a clear expression of the government’s policy and that equality is going on in reverse. It can't be any surprise to the council that fewer fathers take out cardboard. That was exactly what the Council of State put into its draft budget. She calculated that the effect of the reduction in the spring quota would lead to that. I'm striving a little bit to see the red thread in the Right's argument. On the one hand, they say that our proposals mean quotas, bureaucracy and a threat to free choice. Then they're going to explain at the same time that they're not voting for any of our proposals, because this is already mentioned or initiated by the government. It's not on your fingertips. I think the criticism from the right-hand side is rather about being so annoyed by the fact that a whole field of work has slaughtered the message, and that the government today is being overrun.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1632	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1635	The Council of State said instead that we have raised and discussed the main gender equality challenges today. I agree with the Council of State on that. That's why I'm shocked that you can characterize it from the right so that people who are going to work on equality concretely and directly defecate as almost unnecessary bureaucracy. It makes me think about the question: what function in a society can be solved without people, without hands, without heads, without a structure and a plan? I wonder if the Council of State believes that a car has a good function without a road. You can sit in it, you can sleep in it, and you can tune high in the flute, but you can't get that far if the road isn't built. The same is true of equality policy. It's about creating a structure, a way out, into life, into the country, so that politics can reach people – not just sit inside and tune in the flute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1644	I would encourage the Stortinget to vote in favour of proposal No. 60, from the left. It is about the government introducing a third gender category. It's time we did. Unfortunately, I don't think the majority of the population is mature, but it will be like it has been when we've fought for equality, for women, for equality for people with disabilities, for equality for people who are gay, for right to marry – all this has had to be pushed forward politically. So I would like to thank the Left for the proposal. It's absolutely necessary and right to do this, and it's not the least dangerous either, as someone has thought when we've talked about equality before, or when we've talked about gay people having the right to marry and be equal in society. It's completely harmless. In fact, society is getting better. More people get it right, so we have to do this. Then I hear more talk about that there are no actions we need; there are attitudes that need to be changed. That's right. Attitudes must also be changed. It's very important. Where are attitudes created? Well, attitudes are being created, for example. at home. Who's taking care of children? Who does things at home? Who is most important to go to work and work overtime and cannot take out cardboard? I know that cardboard has the important side effect that fathers and children find out how to sort out their everyday life together. The fathers become equal caregivers, and it does something about the equality ahead of the emerging generation. Something else that really affects us is the advertising and entertainment industry. There I have to say that it has really gone back, because there have become very old-fashioned gender roles and gender stereotypes, in very much of the advertising and entertainment industry. Then it's absolutely right that you might want to be a brain surgeon or an oil engineer if you dance around in princess's slippers. I also know that you can. But there are a lot of gender-specific toys, a lot of gender-specific advertising that point towards old sex role patterns, and that had not been sold at all when I had little kids at the end of the 1970s and early 1980s. Then we were aware that this did something to the attitudes, and now we're back again in very old-fashioned sex role patterns that I'm absolutely sure affect us quite a lot and quite a lot more than what we're thinking about, because it slips into inconspicuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1655	I take the floor because the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde accused the Christian People's Party of standing behind the party that blackened this message the most, rather than standing behind the parties that loyally stand up to the Christian People's Party. That, of course, is not what this matter is about. The Christian People's Party has not used this case to change sides. Let me be clear on one thing: this message is not in the pen of the Christian People's Party. This message is not working in such a way that we have been invited to make recordings. This is government parties' message, and of course we've seen it as an invitation to make recordings based on Christian People's Party's equality policy. This is not about taking a stand on one side or the other, but we have, of course, used the opportunity, as the proud equality party we are, to present proposals, to put ourselves behind proposals that we fully agree with. No one should be surprised that the Christian People's Party is offensive in terms of gender equality policy. Marie Simonsen has got it with him. In yesterday's chronicle in Dagbladet, she had a historical look back at the Christian People's Party's equality policy. Therefore, it should not surprise representatives from the Right and the Advance Party that the Christian People's Party is also offensive in this matter – it should just be lacking. If we hadn't been, the Christian People's Party wouldn't have done its job. I needed to underline it, because there's been a little bit of focus on choosing a page. For the Christian People's Party, it's not about it. We are very confident about gender equality policy, and for us it is about promoting a Christian-democratic central policy where we assume that equality is about the concept of human dignity. That's where we take our starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1665	As several speakers have pointed out, the representatives of the government parties have today made a comical attempt to ride two horses in this debate. It's not working. You can't be an opponent of the proposals the opposition puts on the table and call them bureaucratic and radical, so to speak, that they actually open doors. I think it would have been nice if the government parties could be honest and admit that they do not want a more powerful equality policy. It's an honest thing. There's a big ideological difference between the government parties and the opposition. Most people have seen that they have proven every day for two years. Instead, you decorate yourself with statistics from the Evening Post. Yes, thank you, the Evening Post case clearly shows one thing, and that is that what we have built up over many decades, does not allow itself to tear down overnight – fortunately not. Many of the equality grips that we took through the eight red-green years that we ran are still having an effect. That's why we don't immediately see the results of all the statistics that we've got a backward blue-blue government. What we see, and what's serious, is that in very many areas the good development has turned around, and that's all reason to fear decline in further areas as long as the blue-blue government continues. And we know that we have more in store. Horne herself has notified further attacks on the Dad quota, and we know that there are weaknesses and liquidations in the gender equality law. Today is a good day for all those who are concerned with equality, but it's a sad day for the government parties, which once again are revealed as being decapitated and left with a blind, ideological belief that everything goes by itself. I have been helped by some skilled bureaucrats here at Stortinget to reword some of our proposals that were a little clumsy. I will address the proposals in the vote that the Workers' Party is promoting, with the exception of proposals No. 12 and 13, and that's because the Center Party has the same suggestions, but they sound better. But there are orders in some of the proposals, and I have been asked to read out what those changes are all about. Proposal No. 7 is replaced by the following: ‘The government is asking schools to work against sexual harassment and to propose that it be included as a requirement in the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 17: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the municipal crisis centre offer and to propose a new regulatory home in the crisis centre law so that the content and quality of municipal crisis centre offers can be better regulated.’ Proposal No. 26: ‘The government asks the government to increase support for voluntary organisations in the gender equality field in proposals for the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 29: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the allocation of the Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Ombudsman and member of the draft budget for 2017.’ Proposal No. 38: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the appropriations of organisations working against bullying and discrimination in proposals for the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 30: ‘The government is asked to propose to restore the annual full-time pot for local trials and measures for full-time culture, which the government Stoltenberg II introduced over the Ministry of Labour’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1707	Then the representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to, with the changes she also referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1710	There is at least no doubt that there is nothing wrong with the commitment to this debate. And it's definitely a very important debate. But I'm starting to wonder if some representatives don't listen to what's being said from this pulpit. When you can go up here and say that there is no one who has talked about proposals for what to do, and what action to take, I have at least heard many people who have been up on this platform and talked about several of those measures. And since I didn't get the time in my previous post, I'm going to do a couple more examples. I think it is important to ensure better prevention diagnosis, treatment and control of diseases that lead to long-term medical reports and disability among women, and there the government has taken action. Establishing a free collection programme for vaccine against human papilloma virus for all girls up to 26 years of age is an important measure. Providing responses to the health challenges of older women is an important measure. Ensuring that the gender perspective is better integrated into decision-making and the practical exercise of health services is important. I have also heard many – also red-green politicians, especially from the Workers' Party – who have been on this pulpit and have spoken warmly about the fact that we have to do something about unwanted part-time. Then I want to send the challenge back: there are more than 200 rapporteurs from the Labour Party now, and it is entirely possible to do something about unwanted part-time in the municipalities if you want. In fact, it is only to ensure that measures are taken, as many municipalities run by the Right and the Advance Party have done – to address this problem and do something about it – to implement measures for those who do not want to work part-time but want to work full-time. It is possible if it is political will. Then you'll see what happens in the municipal sector, with the political will and the commitment that's here. My experience is not that you intend to have more full-time jobs. My experience is that you want to cut care and care, despite the fact that there's never been more money allocated to the care sector than it's been done in recent years, just to do something about the challenges in this sector. I think it's interesting, and there's a lot of rhetorical posts here. But there are also some who are implementing important measures. In the care and care sectors as well as in the health sector, the government is actually doing a lot of things precisely to ensure that equality is improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1721	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, spoke well about health in a gender equality perspective, and that's great. I have a couple of comments for what he's dealing with. I think on the contrary that this equality message is not good enough when it comes to measures to correct inequalities related to health and gender. The centre party has made more proposals on this matter, including: that we need a new NOW on female health. It's over 20 years since we had the previous one. A lot of things have developed in those years. We have a proposal to strengthen the provision of birth and maternity care in municipalities – for me also a very important gender equality issue. So the representative Hoksrud was talking about a vaccine against the human papilloma virus for girls. That's very good, but this is introduced. What is new there is that a free supply for boys must also be introduced, because there are strong professional recommendations that a person will also be able to prevent cancer in boys. That's why we have a suggestion about it. Then we have developed some major female diseases that are under-prioritised in the health care system today, namely incontinence, leakage problems and osteoporosis, osteoporosis and fractures, where the action plan has expired today. In addition, we have a proposal to strengthen the supply of those with serious eating disorders, which apply to both sexes, but very many young girls do – one of the most serious illnesses that is. In any case, there is a contribution to raising the health perspective of this equality message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1746	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1753	A situation arose some time ago when the Swedish Archives Agency was mentioned by both the media and some individuals in such a way that it was not strange that some uncertainty arose among us politicians. There is some background to this proposal. The Committee understands that. The follow-up was that we asked for a response from the department on what this was, and how it would be negotiated. We got a very good answer to that. First of all, it was established that there was going to be a good process involving all those who were to be involved. It was supposed to be a careful follow-up, and if this job ended up in extensive and structural changes, it would be a matter for the Stortinget to decide on. That's a clear and correct answer, and I know you're doing that job. Nothing suggests that this is a big deal today. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation, both for collecting information and for its conclusion afterwards. The Committee is fully committed to the fact that this is not a matter of concern to us at the moment. We trust that the Archives themselves and in cooperation with the Department and political management will handle this. In addition, the proposals to which the Central Party is partly re-promoting and to which they make additional proposals today are imprecise. They are asked to maintain the regional archives as their own institutions. They're not institutions of their own, they're part of the Archives. Then we cannot possibly maintain them as our own institutions. This is a wrong starting point for the whole case. Furthermore, it would be totally unreasonable, when they are in a process now, for us to make decisions, as proposed in the proposals of the Central Party, on how the division of tasks and the delegation of tasks should be. This belongs to another level. That is why the Committee rejects the matter and does not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1762	It was the Centre Party that presented this Document 8 proposal to maintain and strengthen the eight regional state archives as their own institutions. In the context of the archival announcement, Stortinget concluded that a network of state archives in the regions should be kept up and that conditions should be laid down so that the state archives can play a central role in the establishment and operation of new integrated solutions. The state archives shall have the capacity and the necessary space for action to provide sufficient regional effort. We had to – quite precisely – make a proposal for the Storting in the fall. The Swedish archivist then tried to reorganize the Swedish Archives into a joint organisational unit, directed by Oslo. The proposal meant that the eight regional institutions, the state archives, would be closed down as own institutions, and the conversion would take place from the new year onwards. This led to a break of the trade unions, which put its foot down for the proposal of the National Archives. In the opinion, the Committee says that they share the intention of the draft representative. Of course, it's positive, and we're happy about that. So write the committee that one is satisfied with the political leadership ‘Declares that the Government will carefully assess the organisation of the Archives and that any reorganisation will be brought before the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ That comment is also good, but the problem is that the committee in the vote has only adhered to the response of the Council of State dated 15 December 2015, as I read the comment, and not to the supplementary response of the Council of State dated 29 February 2016. In the supplementary answer, the Council of State concludes that the government will not come to the Storting in its own way, that this will not require a legislative change, and that the Storting will only be informed about the status of the reorganisation process. The State Council's response is different from what the Committee writes in the comment. Therefore, this setting is not an answer to what is our challenge. There's still a lot of uncertainty about what's actually going on, and what the Storing is going to do. The proposal to the national archivist for a new organisation, annexed to Annex 2 to the letter dated 29 February, replaces geographical breakdown by country-wide departments with adjacent sections which are to be independent of geography and with requirements for national leaders. They are to be allocated to these sections. This is provided by the national archiver, which is attached to the setting, almost identical to what led to the breakup of the professional organisations before Christmas. The only new thing is that the State Archives should keep their title and that the name "state archives" should still be on the buildings. The task distribution in the original proposal is kept by layers, and only depots and user services should be represented by all government archives. The centre party fears that there is now a blank mandate to start with what everyone was critical of before Christmas, and so we unfortunately have to make proposals today, because the setting is unfortunately not accurate enough. «Isn't the reorganization of the Arkivverket an internal matter for the establishment?» – There asked Højskulelector Gudmund Valderhaug in a blog post recently. He says it's not like that. The reorganisation of the Swedish Archives Agency is not just about the organisation of the Swedish Archives Agency, but this is about archive policy. A weakening of the regional level that has been requested is also a strong weakening of the archival policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1782	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1785	Yes, I'm taking up the suggestions from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1790	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1793	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a very good and thorough examination of this matter. Good records are essential for the day-to-day operation of businesses and organisations. When the archives are kept so that they become available for use, they are also sources of knowledge and experiences. The State Archives are part of the Swedish Archives Agency. The national archives have had partly similar tasks in different geographical areas, but also tasks for the whole country. The state archives in Bergen have, for example, has been responsible for the development of the digital archive, which is a very popular online channel with more than five million visits per year. The Stavanger State Archives have a national responsibility for archives of the Norwegian oil and gas sector. This includes records of the largest oil companies, trade unions, trade unions and supply companies on Norwegian base. The starting point for the matter we are discussing today is the start of the conversion in the Swedish Archives Agency. How is the Archives supposed to perform statutory tasks in the best possible way? How will the Swedish Archives organise to discharge their social responsibility so that documents produced today become available in hundreds of years’ time? The organisation of the future must reflect the main challenge of the sector, namely the management of digitally created documents. What should be done, then, to provide better and more efficient services for the users of the Archives, both public enterprises and the population? In the 2016 budget, the Ministry of Culture stated that the Swedish Archives Agency was in the process of making a major change in relation to work processes, competences and organisation. The Ministry proposed 2 million. kr. to the conversion process in the Archives. My assessment is that the National Archivist has presented a sketch that takes care of both the need for conversion in the department and the desire to maintain and strengthen the state archives. If we are to succeed, responsibilities and tasks must be specialized. The individual State Archives are responsible for different national disciplines. One may be responsible for digitisation, another may be responsible for supervision, while the third may be responsible for national custody. This means that several tasks currently carried out by the National Archives will be transferred to the State Archives. So it's added to a delegation from Oslo to the regions. In addition, all state archives shall continue to provide site-specific services, such as: public service. The sketch is entirely in line with the archival announcement, which was adopted here in the Stortinget in 2012. The internal conversion process of the Arkivsverket is conducted in accordance with the requirements for participation in the Main Agreement of the State. The recommendation of the Enlarged Committee provides a good basis for the continuation of the work of the Archives with a view to improving the organisation of the establishment. After the decision that is being taken today, I would like to ask the national archivist to move on with the reorganisation, so that the national archivist can resume negotiations with the elected trustees on a concreteisation of the model. The assumption is that national archives should be preserved and specialised by transferring national tasks from the National Archives. That's why it's wrong what the representative from the Central Party claims from the pulpit, so I want you to clarify that. So that's not true. The state archives shall be kept with their own state archives. We're moving tasks out of Oslo, into the districts. It's important for the government, and I also feel that it's important for the large majority of the population. At the same time, you have to understand that in a digital world you have to work in a different way. The specialisation of responsibilities and tasks is part of the development of society from which only the consequences have to be taken. It is also true that I want to inform the Stortinget about the status of the organisation of the Swedish Archives in the 2017 budget proposal. Then I'll come back with an orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1815	Archiving issues are important to everyone; they are public information and in a way their collective memory. Therefore, the organisation of the archive is a very important matter. I have a few questions, because in the answer given by the Council of State on 29 February, there is a sketch attached to a new organisation, where the public archives are to keep the title and one to keep the word ‘state archives’. But can the Council of State explain what else is the difference between this sketch, for which the Council of State seems to be doing well, and sketches before Christmas, which led to the violation of the trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1820	The current tasks that will be transferred to individual state archives are, as I mentioned, digitisation, supervision, depot, user services and IT services, and it will be up to the department, i.e. the National Archives, even under the co-determination rules, to specify the organisational changes. That is why I am pleased that the majority in Stortinget sees that it is not the task of the national Parliament to go in and control such processes in detail. The location of new tasks at each State archive shall be clarified in these negotiations. I hope that's respect for what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1826	I record that the Council of State cannot mention any difference in what is now recommended, and what was proposed before Christmas. But do the Council of State, if one is going to take this sketch seriously, that one should have a state archiver without responsibility for the regional supply, that that is what will become the future of the state archiver, because otherwise it will be a kind of "clinical organization", as we say in the health service? Can the Council explain which state archivist should be responsible for regionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1831	The state archivist shall be the head of each state archive. I didn't think it was so hard to understand that that's what's at stake. It has always been communicated that each State Archives should manage their State Archives. It is neither up to me as a state council nor up to the Stortinget to go in and control the details of which tasks should be assigned to the state archivist and not. That is exactly what will be decided in the further negotiations – for which I have respect, and for which I also feel that the Enlarged Committee has respect. It is essential that we have determined that the state archives will be strengthened when they from the National Archives are given national assignments, which are moved out of Oslo. Then I hope you don't reconstruct problems that don't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1836	It's hard to get an answer to what I'm asking for, but there's a third thing that's suggested in this process, and I'm wondering how the Council of State stands. It is suggested that a payment service provider should also be used in the repository. This is a new principle. Today, such public information is free and should be easily accessible to everyone; it is a bit of the idea behind it. What is the Council of State's assessment of introducing the principle of payment services into the archive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1841	Since it was obviously hard to understand what I meant, I have to repeat for the third time that the public archives are going to lead each of their state archives, that we're moving tasks out of Oslo, that we're adding special services to the different state archives, so that each state archives get their specialty area. Then I just have to make it clear that, under the rules of participation in the negotiations with employees' representatives, neither I nor the committee go in and out of the way. It is the negotiations that will decide. I see that everyone at Stortinget has respect for – except the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1846	Now the government did not answer the question about payment services, so I cannot use the last answer. But since the Council of State now answered something else, I have a follow-up question to it as well. I cannot understand anything other than the fact that the Council of State says, must mean that it outlines, the appendix, which is at issue here – which is a clear outline of organisation, leadership and leadership – has not given the Council of State its consent, it is a sketch that is currently in a way that lives its own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1851	I am answering the questions I get, I, and about payment services I have also told the Storting that I will come back to the budget and inform you more about the process and the outcome of the negotiations. For the changes made, no legislative change is necessary, because it is in line with the archival announcement, which the Stortinget adopted by a broad political majority. This means that the archive is to be further negotiated on the basis of the current sketch. I am sure that they will find good solutions within the framework available – and with the clear leadership that state archives should be specialised, that they should be a separate entity within the archive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1859	The National Archives, the Sami Archives and the eight regional archives of Oslo, Hamar, Kongsberg, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø are administrators of our common history. It's through collecting, archiving and using in research and other public contexts that the past becomes real to us, becomes history, is cultural and identity-creating. Three years ago, in 2013, the Stortinget concluded that the aim of the archive policy was to secure archives of high cultural value or research value or containing important legal documentation and management documentation. The archives shall be accessible to the public throughout the country, and the material shall be archived according to professional criteria, irrespective of where it was created. The majority wanted to strengthen the regional state archives. The national archives have regional competence and trust is of great importance in the field of archival practice. A region must be known to know what is contained in the material and what should be prioritised. One must be trusted to be visited and for archives to be delivered. The central party thinks it's the opposite of strengthening the state archives and their regional function that happens in the reorganisation that the Riksarchivist has warned. The Swedish archivist's proposal to reorganise the archive part into a joint organisational unit managed by Oslo has met with great resistance from a wide range of professional environments and has met with great resistance in the Swedish Archives Agency. The former archivist has a warning against such a conversion. Historians at university and college level also warn against the proposal, and lawyers who use the archive in their work are concerned about getting poorer services. The proposed reorganisation could be the biggest organisational change in the history of the State Archives of 166 years. The Foundation Archive in Trondheim was created as the first in 1850. Tromsø was last out, in 1987. The centre party is not satisfied with the information that has come to it when it comes to future organisation. We're worried that this could become an organisation that happens more in the hidden, which has the consequence that it doesn't go into an open process. The organisation of the Archives is a major and important matter. The Central Party regrets, therefore, that the Council of State has not yet been willing to bring the matter before the Storting. The centre party therefore proposes to stick to its proposals, which have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1876	Only a few clarifications and clarifications: The representative Toppe was afraid the committee had not got everything that had happened in the matter. I can confirm that both the committee chair and the committee have received all the letters from the Council of State, we have had meetings with interest groups from several places in the country – which, however, became fewer as they became aware of the content of the matter – we have met with the Swedish Archives Agency itself and have had good dialogue with the Council of State. We are well up-to-date when we say exactly what we say in this case. The strange thing is that there are proposals on the table in the Chamber today that are going right into a process in a state agency that is in process, which is going to involve the trusted ones, and which is going to have a round with them. Of course, we can't start controlling that way. The committee wrote that they agreed with the intention. We have also confirmed here today that this is what is happening in what is now happening. It is a strengthening of regional state archives to provide them with tasks and opportunities to build environments of competence. It is a strengthening of the regional state archives to keep the entire Swedish Archives up-to-date with the daily lives we live in now, for example. to be at the height of digitisation. Not doing these things would mean they lost the opportunity to follow what they were going to do, and the state archives would be weakened by it. If, against assumption, a completely different organisation of the state archives would appear than what we are now talking about, I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will follow it up – at least I can promise to follow it up with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1889	I wonder if the Committee in the configuration at all has considered the last letter from the Council of State. When the representative Harberg says they've done it, I believe they have, but then I thought there's almost even greater reason to criticise the setting, because it's uncertain to a reader of the setting which the committee actually thinks it's submitted for the reorganisation which is the basis of the second letter to the committee. The case spokesman thinks we can't intervene in the process. Then we're quite disagreeable. The organisation of the Swedish Archives Agency has already said a good deal about the archive message. It doesn't matter what organization we're talking about. It's not an internal reorganisation we're talking about. The organisation of the Swedish Archives Agency is archive policy. When it is shown here that the Committee is satisfied that the government is carefully assessing the organisation, it is contrary to what is said that this is not a political step in the right direction. So here's a very misleading signal about what big business and government is going to mean something about and not. The centre party is clear as to what we think an organisation of the Arkivverket should be, in line with what was the view of the majority when we dealt with the archive messages. What is now very striking is that the committee writes that this should be presented to the Stortinget. It said the Council of State in the first answer, but the new Council of State said this should only be informed about. I can't do anything but stand on what's the Central Party's policy, and we suggest it. I note that there are a lot of parties who don't take the floor and don't want this debate, and I just have to accept that, but at least we're making the four proposals that we've put in as loose proposals. There are the two doctors in the setting all the time, and there are two new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1900	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1914	On behalf of the Committee, I am tabling a unanimous vote, and I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. We are looking forward to the development of a comprehensive communication on a comprehensive policy on the field of faith and life in Norway. The Stoltenberg II government put down the Steelset Committee, and they delivered their NOUs called ‘Life-seeing open society’ on 7 January 2013. The selection set out some basic principles that it is worth noting when the future policy in this area is now to be reflected in new documents. These included: freedom of belief and freedom of life must be protected for all, that the individual's beliefs and beliefs must not infringe the rights and freedoms of others, that the State must not discriminate excessively or disproportionately on grounds of their belief or outlook on life, and that active action must be taken to enable all to exercise their faith. They pointed out the importance that those who receive state support must show willingness to be transparent, that other beliefs and life views are shown the same respect that one expects and benefits from, and that we should accept to be exposed to the beliefs and life views of others in public space. The committee pointed out that the State should strive to give every citizen, in principle and in a reasonable way, the same level of support for their beliefs and beliefs. The Committee considers this to be an important input, which must be part of the big message, but stresses that the Norwegian Church is in a special position both historically and culturally, that the Constitution states that it remains – or as it now says, ‘remains’ – the Church of Norway, that it is entitled to both national and local presence in a completely different way from that of other religious communities, and that it has a role and duties from which the others are not required. The Committee has also pointed out that the 2014 Culture Survey may be relevant in the context of the Communication on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because it concerns issues such as minorities, communities, freedom of expression and cultural diversity. Then it is important that a future belief and life-seeing policy in its design should be assessed against key common values such as democracy, non-discrimination, equality, human rights and that we are a rule of law. The Committee is pleased that the government is finally addressing this and, as I said in the introduction, we are looking forward to a communication to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1933	This is not a matter which today creates a special debate in this Chamber. That is for two reasons: firstly, because a unanimous committee is behind the vote; secondly, because this debate is not going to take place here and now – today – but out there in time. As a proposer, I am very pleased that the Council of State took the ball so quickly and was so offensive and said yes, this sounds like a good idea, I want to be part of this, I want to present a big message about this. I am equally pleased that the rest of the committee also thought this was a good idea, and I think the case rapporteur has explained well. We live in a diverse society. We live in a time of great change. At regular or irregular intervals, we have debates on one thing or another that concerns this area. It's time we lifted our eyes a little bit and saw this in a whole. I look forward to the debate coming forward. I think the Council of State has added up to something a little exciting. She has expressed that she wants to include as many people as possible, for this is not a big message that can be written in the Council's office. This is a big message that must involve people, it must involve them. More voices need to be heard than just the voices of us sitting in here, and the voices of those who work for the Council of State. Once again, thanks to the rapporteur, to the Committee and to the Council of State for their positive attitude to our proposal. This will be an exciting thing to follow forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1946	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a fine presentation of the Committee's work. In particular, I would like to thank the Left for making the proposal. Left took a very good initiative in a conversation, not least in Stortinget, about beliefs and life views. The government wants a broad and involved debate on issues of faith and life's views, because as a community we must have ownership of belief and life's views. As many in the room know, we have signaled that we will start a work on the big picture of an overall belief and life-view policy in a slightly different way, which the representative Nybø was in the right place. I also believe that as important as the writing of the big message and the decision in Stortinget, the process is there. How can we have a public, good conversation, put into a bigger perspective than just related to single events? The challenge now facing Norway and Europe, in particular with regard to migration, is to extend the context and complexity in matters of belief and life. That is why we need a new roadmap for cultural and religious meetings. I hope that all the parties at Stortinget want to contribute to that. In its position, the Committee refers to several investigations that have been carried out, and I would like to include them in the further work. I hope we get a debate that facilitates a society where belief and vision of life have a natural place and can help us find decent and practical solutions when we meet old and new challenges in the field of faith and life. These challenges often deal with non-discrimination and equivalence in meeting religious and life-seeking needs, such as: in the case of religious symbols in public spaces, beliefs and views of life in schools and religious services in public institutions. I will end by saying that I look forward to the good public conversation that we are going to have around these questions, and I hope Stortingen can contribute to a good process around this. So I hope that the committee that has been up to now is the beginning of a very good cooperation between all the parties that are represented on the Stortinget. I think that's a good starting point because we're well equipped to take a debate in an open, conscious and respectful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1959	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1973	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose giving rise to three replies from the main speakers of the parties and six replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e1980	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good account. It's towards a serious backtrace we have this discussion. Without action, the world is facing catastrophic global warming, with consequent climate change. We have to act now! It is difficult to overestimate the significance of the Paris Agreement that was signed before Christmas. I also believe that many of those who were in Paris were surprised that we got a stronger agreement than most had expected in advance, and that was stronger than expected after many years of discussion and negotiations without reaching an international agreement. Not only does the agreement say that we should reach a 2-degree goal – no, we should go well below a 2-degree target. A whole world has committed itself to reaching 1.5 degrees. Then it's important to point out the difference between having a 2 degree goal and having a goal of reaching 1.5 degrees. This means not only that we must have a negative emissions globally in the middle and at the end of this century, but also that we must have a negative emissions globally 10-20 years earlier. It takes an enormous effort to be able to reach 1.5 degrees. Then it's important with the Paris agreement that when it's signed, there's a bottom-up process. Now each country, each local authority, enterprise, organisation and co-operative country is responsible for the implementation of the agreement. Therefore, it is also quite timely that we have this discussion in Stortinget now. It is now up to us to lead to reducing emissions in Norway and to contributing to international emission reductions. The size has previously decided that we want to do this in cooperation with the EU, and then with a target of 40 pst. emission reduction by 2030. What we know about that commitment is that the EU wants emissions to be reduced by 43 pst within the EU. within the quota sector and we will be granted a reduction obligation for the non-quota sector. It'll be a process before this is in place, and then it's important that we get started with the emission reductions now. For the Left, it is important to assume that the target and the obligation are a 40 pst. decrease that it is a 40 pst. reduction by 2030, until agreement with the EU is reached on something else. It is also important to assume that even if we are to have an agreement with the EU, Norway can have its own objectives that go beyond the objectives we set with the EU. We have the climate agreement, which says we're going down to 47 million. tonnes by 2020. It's difficult, but still possible, and that's the basis for us to do a lot more and do it faster than that. Governments report on many trends internationally in the field of climate. These include: a development in the energy sector, where cheaper solar cells are obtained. There's a lot of positive happening. Governments also report too much of the government’s work on the basis of decisions taken in Stortinget. But we have to expect more. The government shall not only do what Stortinget asks of them. They must have their own driving force and not just live on what both the Left and the Christian People's Party are doing in cooperation with the government, especially within the budgetary cooperation we have. We need a completely different systematic approach at work. We have oil messages today that do not relate to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We have a national transport plan, which only partially relates to the Paris agreement. We also have many other messages and individual decisions that do not relate to the Paris Agreement. What we have to put in place is a different systematic. We know to a large extent what needs to be done: only zero-emission vehicles have to be sold in 2025. Heavy transport must be fossil-free by 2030. And Norway has to take a leading role internationally in fulfilling the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2003	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2006	Thank you to the Chairman of the Committee for a good report. The Labour Party shares his analysis of what happened in Paris, the importance of it, but also that now it's up to us, now it's every country that has to follow up. For our part, it means that we have to follow up here at home in Norway. The Council of State and the Government have so far pointed to the EU and said that we should wait for the EU and wait for an agreement, which they suggest may come at the end of 2017. My simple question to the Elvesu is whether the Left is satisfied with the signals that have come from the government team, or whether they believe that we should already set our own goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2015	We have our own goal. The main objective, which is also part of the Paris Agreement, is what we are doing towards 2020. We're going down to 47 million. tonnes by 2020. It's awfully difficult, because we're late out there, but it's still possible. That is what drives our daily work, both in budgetary work and in the day-to-day work of the Stortinge. Then we have to have a process with the EU. As I also said in my speech – until we can establish the commitment that Norway will have, in cooperation with the European Union, we have to assume that we have to plan for 40 pst. reductions also in the non-quota sector up to 2030. What is crucial is that we have to have individual measures now, and then we have to start, also in different organisations, with the necessary overall planning to get a system of climate action that points forward towards 2030. Now there's too many simple decisions, and there's too little systematics in the job we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2022	I agree with what Elvesuen says. There are a lot of simple measures, and there are a lot of climate debates in Norway and the United Kingdom. Almost every week, there's some climate issue. In our committee, we now have nearly 40 matters to deal with. I think much of the reason why that's because the government doesn't provide anything. That's why it gets a little fragmented – each party comes up with its proposals. Does the chairman of the committee think that there would have been an advantage if the government had provided a climate notification during this period with a systematic work on what Norway should do in the climate issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2029	Yes, it is important that the government now not only works with decisions that we make in Stortinget, but it also takes its own initiative. Today, a lot of what we're doing is based on the budgetary unity we've had in this period. There's no doubt that in the left we're satisfied that there's a lot of what we've been through, which then becomes politics after. I think it is right to coordinate with the EU. We also believe that it is not just about having a bilateral agreement. I think it's better to get this into an EEA framework as well, so that we get a completely different tool to implement the policy after we have put the agreement in place. I think what's important here is that the budgets, all the individual issues, the communication that's now coming, are in line with the 2030 target, that we should have 40 pst. down. This is the case until a possible agreement with the EU is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2038	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2041	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the Minister for the climate and the environment for the presentation, but after hearing the presentation, there are two not completely unanswered questions: What does the agreement mean for Norway? And: What measures does the government think should be taken to achieve the obligations arising from the agreement? The statement did not give any answers or any instructions for that, and we now also see that the government is deliberately using the consensus that was in Stortinget to join the EU Climate Framework, as an excuse not to take action. The debate on Tuesday was a very good emphasis on that very thing. The government’s lack of willingness – and ability – to take initiatives and to concretely define the consequences of the agreement is alarming. It is obvious that the Minister for Climate and Environment has abdicated in the climate issue. I wrote before the statement that the Minister for Climate and Environment is more loyal to the EU than to the climate. The statement confirmed the claim. We must therefore do the climate work in Stortinget if we are to succeed in bringing the emissions down. The Labour Party was prepared for this and already proposed a number of proposals in February. We have put forward proposals for an emission-free transport sector in which we, among other things, it is correct to state that from 2030 onwards new cars with greenhouse gas emissions will not be sold. We have proposed concrete measures to achieve a target of zero and low-emission solutions in all industries, so that we can win green competitiveness. We have made suggestions to get zero and low-emission solutions at sea. We have proposed a process to achieve climate targets in the agricultural sector. We have proposed several points on what the circular economy should contain. We have proposed a significant boost to climate research at national and global level. We have proposed leadership to ensure strong international involvement. And we have proposed establishing governance mechanisms to control the emissions of the different sectors. These are some examples of proposals that actually need to be implemented now. The Paris Agreement requires action, as the representative of Elvesuen said. We cannot – and do not need – wait for the EU. As the Council of State itself pointed out in its statement — ‘the implementation of the Paris Agreement shall take place at national level’. This means that there is an urgent need for concrete action at national level, so that we really have a chance to achieve the emission targets we are going to achieve in 2030. When Stortinget joined the EU Climate Change Framework, the Labour Party supported a proposal that the government should return to Stortinget after the Paris meeting and before the summer of 2016 with a national emission reduction plan up to 2030. With the experience we now have, and with a passive and absent government on climate issues, this proposal should, of course, have been adopted. At that time, the government said that the agreement with the EU would come during 2016. Now the Council of State says that this can be done at the earliest in 2017 – at the end of 2017. It's only after the next big shot. Erna Solberg said in his protection of former Minister of Climate and Environment Sundtoft that it is ‘more difficult to stand for the climate in a government where no one is so concerned about it’. I guess that says everything. The absence of action is not so strange, all the time the Progress Party is in government. We now see the consequence that the climate was not one of the eight things the government chose to prioritise when they joined. It's still like that. Despite the Paris agreement, the climate issue is not a priority for the government. Only one thing has been promoted by the government over the course of two and a half years, and that matter they now actively use as a shield and as an excuse for not doing anything – nothing. Climate issues must be a framework for all policies. Climate is a matter that calls for concrete action and political leadership, and it is a fact that there is greater climate unity in the Stortinget than in the government. Therefore, it is now crucial that the Storting do the job that the government will not do. The Labour Party is prepared to take responsibility and to find good and broad solutions in the Storting both with and without the government's blessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2060	The representative of Aasland uses a lot of words about the importance of acting on climate issues. He called for concrete action and complained about a government that is doing too little. But when the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, promoted a proposal for a climate tax on aircraft, who was the one who called the highest then? It was precisely the Workers' Party, who ridiculed the proposal, who thought it was all the other way around, and who uses big words. Is not the polluter pays principle a principle that also underpins the Workers' Party? Why go so high on the track and be against something like that when we know that we actually have to base a principle that it will cost to pollute? No one takes responsibility for air traffic internationally, it's a demanding area. Doesn't the representative see the value in that it's going to cost a little bit to fly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2065	Thank you very much for your question. We are very much for charges, charges that actually work, and charges that are aimed at consumption. The introduction of a general seat charge in air traffic is not concrete and targeted, so it shows that there are challenges to the taxation policy pursued by the government. We are for consumption charges, but not a general fare, as the government will implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2072	Now my job is not to defend the government, but the Labour Party appears to be rather critical of the lack of action by the government. But the climate crisis is not something that has arisen in this great period, and for eight years you sat with the power, and then I wonder, what was the significantly higher rate of green conversion while you had the power?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2077	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party and the Left, because it would not have been for the Christian People's Party and the Left, we had not seen traces of climate action in the last two and a half years. In the eight years that we've been sitting, we've stepped up attention significantly around the climate. We've promoted two staging messages, climate announcements. We agreed to establish two settlements, and we got a very clear – and strong – international commitment to climate. All of those directions are now abandoned. But I stress that I am very pleased with the work of the Christian People's Party and the Left has contributed in these two and a half years, because if we hadn't seen a drift of climate policy in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2084	Now it's a little tempting to start talking about eight years with a red-green government, but I won't. I agree with the representative of Aasland that we must have very ambitious objectives in the transport sector. That's where we know we have to take the big cuts. We're from the left-hand side to even more ambitious and believe that we only have to be able to sell a zero-emission vehicle in 2025 to get to the numbers. Aasland also said that climate policy must cover all policy areas, and we know a lot about what we have to do in the non-quota sector. But my question is, is the Labour Party as willing to make changes in the quota sector as well? In the light of the Paris agreement, is there any willingness to change the position regarding the opening of the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja, to look at the tax system in the petroleum sector, whether it needs to be modified in the light of the Paris Agreement, or to impose stricter requirements in order to obtain power from countries, or for the management of emissions in the Norwegian sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2093	At first, I believe that the political history of the Workers' Party underlines that the Workers' Party is willing to make demands on industry, business, etc., and I think that this has helped us, among other things. have industries in Norway that are leading in many of their areas, and we will continue to do so. We have already proposed, in the comprehensive climate proposal for which the representative, Mr Elvesuen, is the case rapporteur, positive action in the quota sector, precisely to be able to bring the knowledge and the environments that are there to deliver low- and zero-emission technologies. I think that's what the world's going to be asking for. If we can position ourselves in an even stronger and even clearer leadership position in terms of climate, with positive measures – and Norway, together with industry, has muscles to help develop new solutions – we will be able to strengthen our competitiveness, we will be able to gain a strong green competitiveness, also in the quota sector. I think we should do that with positive instruments, and that is very much for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2100	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2103	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for a good account, which gives the Storting a good starting point for further debate. There have been great expectations about the presentation and the debate we are going to have here today. I have no reason to believe that everyone will be satisfied with the answers we get here today, and those we got in the presentation. But then there's also broken ground we have in front of us. So I guess I am going to hear statements today that the Right and the Government are not doing enough in climate policy – we have already done so far – that we are waiting for the EU and that action is urgent. Then it is good to know that it is this government and the cooperation parties that have strengthened climate reconciliation and that are creating new instruments in climate policy. The Paris Agreement has committed Norway to new and higher ambitions than in the past. It's a commitment and a responsibility we have to follow up. Big words have been used about the Paris agreement. Historically, it is probably what has been used most often. In other words, expectations are enormous as to what the agreement can lead to. So what does all this mean for Norway? Several people in this room are going to show it as if they already know what it means. It will be said that the oil taps must be closed and that all new cars must be zero-emission cars before the agreement has entered into force at all. It would appear that the road to fulfilling the Paris Agreement has been paved with bans, injunctions, charges and zero economic growth. Fortunately, it doesn't have to be like that. It's not going to get away from that answer to the question of exactly what this means for Norway, we just don't know that yet. Those who negotiated the agreement did not know either. Therefore, there is one point in the agreement that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will prepare a special report during 2018 on the impact of the new 1.5 degree target. Why am I saying this? The opponents of opinion may want to hear a politician who wants to buy time. I can assure you that this is not the case, but it is therefore the case that the Storting has agreed to a joint emission obligation with the EU and that the framework for this will have a major impact on Norwegian climate policy. That being said, no one in the government or among the Right-wing representatives on the Stortinget has intended to lean back and just wait for this process. We are in the process of entering Norway into the green shift and moving towards the low-carbon society, which enables us to fulfil our obligations in the Paris agreement. Norway has a very good starting point to be among the driving countries that lead and show that it is possible to combine lower greenhouse gas emissions with continued growth and prosperity. We have the knowledge, the people, the renewable energy and an economy to carry the transformation. But if we're going to do this, we need to have people with us. It must be both profitable and easy to choose green in everyday life, and the polluter must pay. For this reason, this government and the cooperation parties focus on a wide range of instruments that have a positive impact on people and on business. We are making a historic effort on the railways, on public transport in major cities and on pedestrian and cycle routes. This facilitates an increase in the number of environmentally friendly journeys and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The government and the cooperation parties have also reinforced several elements of the climate agreement and have overfilled the deposits of the climate technology fund. We can already see the results of this policy. The list of aid decisions at Enova is impressive reading and shows a broad range of measures both among enterprises and public enterprises. Support for technology development creates jobs, and that is good for the climate. We are now embarking on a major investment in the transport sector in Enova, and I think we will see good results in the future both on charging infrastructure for electric cars and exciting innovations in the maritime sector. The Climate and Energy Fund is not the only tool to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More money has also been allocated to measures that increase carbon uptake in forests and ants. There are pilot schemes in biogas, more knowledge through greenhouse gas statistics for municipalities and county municipalities, lower electricity charges for ships, and we phase out fossil heating in state buildings. In total, this is an active and offensive climate policy. It is the opposition's role to be impatient and point to potential for improvement. But let's not try to represent reality as something it isn't. Our international climate work reaps praise, and the current year is the climate and forest investment of a total of 2.8 billion. kr. Norway is heading ahead. I have now mentioned measures on a long list of instruments that will help achieve our commitments under the Paris Agreement. And there will be more. With the cooperation parties we are now following up the Green Tax Commission, there will be an energy message, an industry message and a report on green competitiveness. It becomes with the Paris agreement as with everything else in life: you can choose to look at the glass as half-empty and think that time is running from us, and that the transition is going to be terribly difficult, or you can think that the glass is half-full, that we are doing well with the transition to the low-carbon society, and that the opportunities that lie there will create both growth and a better climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2134	The representative, Bru, says that it is difficult to say what the Paris Agreement implies for Norway. It's okay that she says that, but I expect her to know what the climate agreement means for us at Stortinget. State Council Helgesen, in his statement on Tuesday, signaled that he was going away from the consensus in the climate agreement to speed up the goal of carbon neutrality from 2050 to 2030 if we got an ambitious and global agreement. Does the representative share the view of the Council of State that the Paris agreement is not good enough for us to comply with the commitments we made in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2139	When we know more about what is required to achieve a 1.5-degree target, which has now been commissioned by the IPCC, it would be natural for Norway to look again at whether our commitments are in line with such a target. It may be that speeding up the carbon neutrality target will help if we need to tighten up further, but there is also such a mechanism in the agreement that we need to strengthen it gradually if we see that there is a need for it. I am not rejecting it, but I believe that we must first wait and see what is needed to achieve the goal, instead of running ahead. Then we're not going to forget that when this government took over, it was a gap of 8 million. tonnes of CO2 up to 2020 and that contained in the climate agreement. That gap is now down to 6.7 million. tonnes. It's going in the right direction, but it wasn't just-just, and we're lying behind. Here the red-green government has not been particularly offensive, which makes this more difficult to reach. But we have ambitions to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2148	The representative Bru pointed to many of the measures being taken. Much of it has been adopted in budgetary conciliation, and much of it is in the transport sector, for example. improving biofuels and making the environment more attractive. However, in order to achieve the objectives – reaching both the 2020 targets and the 2030 targets – we need to make a much faster transition to zero-emission and biofuels in the transport sector. Then my question to Tina Bru and Right is: are you now willing not only to look at the positive instruments, where we almost have no more left, but also on the charging system, to use the market and to raise environmental taxes on fossil fuels to a level that makes us reach the targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2153	There's no doubt that if we're going to achieve a national target, down 40 pst. by 2030, the transport sector is an important part of achieving this. I have no problem standing here today and saying that the government is absolutely pushed in the right direction by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Biggest. I'm very happy about that. And that's what we're going to do -- think, now for the first time we've got a climate strategy in NTP. We've never had that before. There's a record bet on the railroad, and there's a lot of other things going on in this sector. I think, as I said in my reply to the representative of Aasland, that the polluter pays principle must be based. It will be an important part of the overall review of the car charges that is now being carried out. I think this is where you have to turn all the stones. It must also be recognised that tough measures will be needed to achieve reductions, including in the transport sector, so that we can achieve our climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2158	It was the wrong glasses, but I can see as far as the representative Bru there anyway! The representative Bru frameworks good actions: rail, climate technology funds, etc. - All right! She does not frame the measures that work in the opposite direction: heavy highwaying, further oiling, etc. The problem is all the time — unlike in almost all other areas of society where we are introducing measures, where we are calculating what the impact of the measures is — that the government's climate policy is characterised by a lack of concreteity in the impact of the measures it boasts. Can the representative Bru explain to me why it is good climate policy to claim to have a lot of climate action, but refuse to explain the impact of reducing emissions of these different measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2165	I think the question and the premise in the question is somewhat strange, because it goes without saying that if you build more railways and move more people away from the road to the collective, it will have an effect. It's hard to say how fast it's coming, and just how big it's going to be, but you don't have to be able to give a power calculation to claim that it's going to have a positive environmental effect in terms of lower emissions, or to pass on the electric car benefits, for example. – that it also has an effect. So I think the question is something technical and goes into some detail that is at a level that does not take into account what is actually the problem here, which is that you need concrete action. That's what matters, and that they work, not that you can do a power calculation. Everyone understands that moving goods from road to track or from road to sea, or more driving electric cars, or putting them on the railways, will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2170	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2173	Let me start by thanking the Council of States for a very good and thorough presentation, which was clear and focused on national challenges and not least national opportunities. Similarly, I was pleased that the Council of State spent time on international conditions and the international climate picture, which is complex. The climate agreement that was established in Paris is a breakthrough in international climate work and is taking many new and important steps forward in relation to what has been done in the past in this area. As the Council of State said in its statement, almost 20 p.m. was. of world electricity production renewable in 2015, while nearly 90 pst. from renewable sources of new generation in the world in 2015. In this context, it is natural to refer to figures from the IEA, which show that last year global greenhouse gas emissions stood still for the second consecutive year. The reason is more renewable energy. In particular, it is gratifying to record that greenhouse gas emissions in China and the United States have fallen in the last year. The reduction in the use of coal is the reason. Getting the coal out is a good news also for Norwegian oil and gas industries. The absence of greenhouse gas emissions is a good starting point for a global reduction in the future. Norway aims at joint implementation with the EU in order to achieve climate objectives. It has been clear for a long time that when the EU has done its job and the burden-sharing between countries is clear, the government will return to the Grand Duchy. Then it is a little strange to record that the Workers' Party had fossils away from the consensus that they had about a year ago. I just have to wonder what is the Workers' Party's motivation to do that. What is important is to have a predictable and committed framework to further develop Norwegian climate policy, not least given the relationship Norway has with the EU in terms of exports. About 80 pst. exports go to the EU. It is then important for Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs to coordinate Norway’s and the EU’s climate policy as far as possible. So the question is, what does the agreement mean for Norway? No one knows or has an overview of it. However, what is important is that Norway does not introduce a climate policy that contributes to the loss of Norwegian industrial activities and jobs, which in worst cases could lead to carbon leakage with subsequent global emissions. I also liked the fact that the Council of State referred to the five identified priority areas of action in climate policy. There are some who are probably more demanding than others, and in transport it's obvious that it's going to be the most demanding. But it's important to take along the good news too, and that's that you gradually get lower emissions from the car park, a recent statistic was provided on it. There are lower prices of petrol and diesel, and the total reduction in petrol and diesel consumption has also decreased. So the positive instruments that this government, with the good support of the cooperation parties, has created, also have the effect that is measurable now. Then you're in on the right track, and it's just to keep going with that bet in the future. It will also be done by the government before the EU has made its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2200	Historically, it's a word that goes back when we discuss the Paris Agreement, and that's at least for two reasons. One is the agreement itself; the other is that the Progress Party is behind an international climate agreement. When the previous international climate agreement was written, Korsberg was also an environmental policy figure – that was the Kyoto agreement. Then he said that this "is based on a syllable of scientific evidence". When it was informed that the agreement was weakened, he said that the problem is that ‘it is unfortunately not weakened enough’. And: «Incidentally, I have a very relaxed relationship with the socialist-created environmental hysteria». Nothing would have been better than that there is Korsberg as a fossil away from previous statements. My question to Korsberg is therefore whether the Progress Party is now fully behind the Paris Agreement and the knowledge base on which the agreement is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2205	It's fun to get a line on something I've said in this room almost 20 years ago. In any case, it means that I have made a good contribution today when you are unable to attach yourself to anything. What was the great weakness of the Kyoto agreement was the commitments and that it was not a good enough agreement globally. That was the biggest criticism we raised. And then there were a lot of scientific environments that were kind of wondering about part of the decision-making base. That said, a lot has happened since then, among other things. that the voters at the 2013 elections have put together a new increase. We in the Progress Party are part of the government, and we have negotiated a good basis with the Right and also with the Cooperation Parties. So yes, I fully support the Paris agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2214	The criticism of Korsberg was not that there were too few countries – on the contrary, he thought it was good when the United States left Kyoto. But my question is about the scientific basis. When Siv Jensen a month ago was asked why it is important to cut CO2 emissions – she boasted that this government had gone to cut CO2 – she was unable to answer why it is important. So my question to Øyvind Korsberg is whether the Progress Party is now behind the Intergovernmental Panel – not if they are behind the government platform – when we can now acknowledge that they may have gained new knowledge and read out, and that the climate problem is a man-made problem, which we politicians have to share in solving.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2226	Most of the background to the Paris Agreement, which the Progress Party is behind, is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, so that is to the extent the answer to that question. But what I think is important in any context is that you also dare to ask critical questions about scientific facts. The day you don't dare to do that, you're actually a little bit wild. Then you have to recognize that there is a different perception of man-made CO2 emissions into the atmosphere and their impact. It is a fact that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change does not just have pure flour in it. They've manipulated a number of researchers that have been discovered in the past. So it's a fact that solar scientists may not be able to contribute the same amount to the prognosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2236	Part of what it has been boasted about by the Progress Party and by the Council of State on Tuesday is that for the first time, a climate strategy related to NTP, the National Transport Plan, is presented. It is also recognised that the emission reductions that we have to do in the non-quota sector are about 35-40 p.p., because we are a high-income country and have high gross domestic product per capita. The factions say that in their climate strategy it is possible to reach 50 pst. reduction of CO2 emissions in the transport sector. It is very important that we set a climate target for the transport sector, because a national transport plan is now to be presented, and how we plan our infrastructure, will determine how much emissions will be. The Progress Party and the Right have so far voted against having a CO2 emission target for the national transport plan. My question to Øyvind Korsberg is: does he now support a climate target for the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2249	I think we might have to wait until the National Transport Plan comes, to see what the content of it is. But it's quite right, as it's been said before, and as I also said in my post on Tuesday, that the subjects are asked to make recordings in that way. So it's already trapped up. So you can have goals, but what I'm more concerned about is achieving the goals you set. I believe that both in climate policy and in other policy areas it is easy to set targets, but the most difficult thing is to achieve the targets. There you have to have a realism in what you do. However, Norway is a leading country in climate policy both in industry and in a number of other areas. Then there is a transport challenge, but there is no need to lose focus: Norway is a long-term country and has a widespread settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2259	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation, where he has the power to put climate policy into an overall context, also as an opportunity for transformation with great potential for business. But the reality we have to take inwards. We've long said that we're the generation that can do anything about climate change. There is a lot to play, so I had expected more concrete action signal from the government. On the other hand, it is gratifying that we stand together on the will and necessity of action, and I stress the importance of investing in green competitiveness. In both this and the conversion of the transport sector, the government gives a good signal. The Paris Agreement commits countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to 2 degrees above pre-industrial level and to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. The Parties shall communicate a new emission contribution every five years. New contributions should always be more ambitious than the old ones. The Christian People's Party agreed to link Norway's efforts towards the EU because it is likely to be most effective. This must not mean that we are waiting with Norwegian measures. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Green Party last year, was given an impact on the development of a climate law – a climate law to systematically commit us to following the climate goals. It will be an important tool in a climate-friendly domestic environment. Helgesen announced that this will only come in the spring of 2017. I can't believe that this tool can't be put in place before. I challenge the Council of State to say something about this in its article. I also noticed that the State Council Helgesen drew out the Norwegian effort for climate and forest through the rainforest campaign. I hope that 2015 was the last time we saw a dramatic cut in the draft state budget. We are constantly reminded that this is more serious, and no signs that we can relax. Last week, TV2 reported a research report that showed that the ice shelves – something new that I learned – in Antarctica can break and fall off if the sea gets warmer. The ice shelves have for many years restricted the movement of inland ice against the coast. The worst scenario is that the inland ice is escalating its movement towards the sea. This could mean that the sea level is one meter higher in 2100, and fifteen meters higher in 2500. So this is serious. We know that climate change has already hit many people hard, and the hardest hit is the poorest. More drought and unforeseeable rainy seasons are already having dramatic consequences. We can't be the generation that did too little. It will give us a crushing historical judgment -- because we know it's dramatic not to act. It is an expectation of the people – and an understanding of conversion. It gives us a unique opportunity to use measures that also in the short term challenge our way of life and our habits. In fact, the Progress Party still has some climate skeptics, but it has had a good educational effect on the lot to be in the government position, and it is positive. I'll pick a positive way to say it. That leads me to my next point. This must be a political virtue. Often the game between the games, between the position and the opposition, can capture us. However, we have a theme on the table that is really too important for that. The opposition, both without a cooperation agreement and with it, shall blow the government's neck. But we have to remember the seriousness and focus on the job to be done. One of the most important things now that climate challenges are on the table, while a crisis in petroleum-based industries is that the measures being implemented are a green shift. I noticed that the Council of State pointed out that although we are going to have petroleum activities for decades, it is no longer where the growth power lies. The Christian People's Party takes every opportunity to stress that on that basis it is even more important not to start petroleum activities in particularly vulnerable sea areas. I expect that the government will not challenge our patience in the 23rd concession round by making the allocation in the open areas up to the edge of the Barents Sea ice. My message is hard work, real action and real action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2290	First, I want to thank Andersen Eide for a very good article. I very much agree with her, among others. in what she says about the statement being a little bit concrete, that things take a long time, and that we are impatient by the Stortinges side, for now it has become a little bit that in Stortinget all proposals for climate change come from the parties that are not in government, but are committed to following up the climate agreement and bringing down the emissions. From the Labour Party we have promoted over 40 proposals, and we hope to get an impact on many of them in Stortinget. I'm really wondering if the Christian People's Party wants to be positive about working out policies together from the Biggest side, working to get a majority, so that we can carry out the skill that the representative is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2297	It is important for the Christian People's Party to follow up the climate agreement. We are also impatient, and we want to look at these proposals with positive eyes. At the same time, we have a cooperation agreement. We have budget commitments. The representative is well aware of this. The fact that we can go together to see what we can do applies not only to the opposition parties, but also to the government parties in common. Nothing would have been better than that we stood together in this fight. We're going down 57 million. tonnes by 2020, and there is a long way to go, not least in line with what is now happening after Paris. We see, as far as the countries reporting their targets are concerned, that what has been achieved is too weak, and that we do not want to reach the 2-degree target. Here, Norway must be offensive and perhaps accelerate climate neutrality targets along with the report we are going to deliver in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2302	Thank you for a nice post. I agree with the representative that this is about here, is to take our share of the huge amount of climate change that needs to be done internationally. I want to raise the question of whether we do enough in Norway. If we look at what was going on in order to reach the climate agreement in 2020, and use the government's own numbers, you'd have to be able to cut about 1 million. tonnes of CO2 in the year. This was not possible from 2013 to 2014, and according to the government’s own Climate State Council, it may have increased in 2015 instead of falling. My question is: will the Christian People's Party give approval to climate policy if you cannot reduce CO2 emissions by at least 1 million. tonnes per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2315	Now I don't want to go in and grade percentages to give stamp and character. There can be many grades both for the previous government and for the government we now have. But what is important for the Christian People's Party is that we are impatient, and we want to work constructively against the government to strengthen climate action. We'll do that through the budget work. We do that by supporting the proposals made by the government. I have a long list here that I could read from, because I thought I had to prepare a little bit on these questions, but I think you know most of what's on it, because there's a lot of good things the government has done. Among other things, I can mention efforts in the field of climate technology research. I can mention the grants to Elkem on Her Islanda and Hydro on Karmøy, which was very positive. One thing that is also important is the reward scheme we came up with in the budget, a reward scheme of 100 million. kr for climate action in municipalities – great.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2324	I will also be allowed to thank you for the presentation. It is easy to agree with the analysis that the Paris Agreement has had an impact and has helped to revitalise the international climate debate, and this has been very good in view of the issues we are facing. It's true that there are many points of light at international level. That both the United States and China will formally accede to the Paris Agreement in the current year is one of the highlights. It is also important that large groups and enterprises around the world regard cutting their greenhouse gas emissions as important and that the Paris Agreement thus inspires the private sector. It's going to contribute to a dynamic that's going to be important for years to come. There is little doubt that economic, technological and political developments will work together in the follow-up to the agreement, and that is good. But what is missing in the Norwegian debate – and which I feel also in today’s debate – is what this will mean for Norway. That's kind of the big question we're all asking ourselves. We have joined the EU target of 40 pst. Emissions cuts by 2030, but if we are to wait for all the overall discussion on our own targets until the EU is ready to design its policy, we may risk putting the break button on, and we will have a kind of climate break until 2019 or 2020. I hear the Council of State says that this is not the case, but it feels this way as long as business and the most affected industries have no clear ambitions or objectives to deal with, and as long as one also feels in the political environment that there is a lack of opportunity to get the full debate on national objectives. There is little doubt that the major changes both internationally and nationally will occur at the intersection of transport and energy, which was also discussed by the Council of State. Or to put it another way: much of the climate solution is going to be about electricity as an infrastructure for years to come. Tomorrow the government's energy message, and it's hoping it can give some answers, give us some opportunities to discuss what energy and electricity are going to have to say to cut greenhouse gas emissions. How are we going to develop renewable energy in the years to come? How are we going to use renewable energy wisely in Norway and internationally? Will we see a renewable energy strategy after the green certificates expire in 2020? Will there be an offensive strategy for the development of sea winds? The oil fund will be allowed to enter into renewable energy through, for example: unlisted shares? How should state locomotives be able to promote the development of new renewable energy on a capital basis? Another sector of major importance is the transport sector. We need to work towards a zero-emission transport sector, and that means a lot of action in many areas. How will the government facilitate it? We see that this year rail investment is going down. They were at the top in 2014, after the last budget that the red-green government made in the autumn of 2013, where investments increased sharply. We see that electrification of the railway is pushed out in time. Agriculture is a third sector in which emissions have to be cut. Here it is that while waiting for the real debate, the environmental moralists get the groundwork. Those who want to bring meat consumption down by reducing Norwegian meat production and increasing imports of meat – it’s as low as it can be! This will lead to reduced grazing and increased soya imports into Norway. There are also many other areas in which we now need to move further and move forward in the debate, and the risk of the break button remaining until 2019 – and there are widespread attempts, as one also sees a little in the debate today – is great. I want to commend the Council of State for one concrete thing, and that is the follow-up to the climate bill. I think it is important that the climate legislative proposal promoted by the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, for which we received a majority in the Grand Council, be followed up. I think, like the Christian People's Party, that there should be an opportunity to present it earlier than in 2017, for 2017, as said in the statement, probably means in the middle of the busy time we're on our way into now. It should be possible to present it at such a time in 2017 that we can discuss it in good time before we close that big session.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2353	The polluter pays principle is strongly reflected in Norwegian climate and environmental policies. Taxes and taxes are among the most powerful tools we have to distort both production and consumption in a more climate-friendly direction. We know that all industries in the non-quota sector in Norway must contribute if we are to achieve our national climate targets by 2030. The Centre Party will be involved in discussing new taxes and taxes in agriculture, possibly looking at agricultural subsidies with a new, critical look in the context of climate change, such as: in the case of aid for the production of red meat, which is a concern of the Green Tax Commission? If the centre party does not want to introduce these measures here in the country, what would the centre party be able to do about agricultural measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2360	It is a good principle that the polluter should pay. However, it is also an important principle that environmental measures should work and that the use of taxes should not only be an increase in taxes and taxes. The problem with the Green Tax Commission and part of the proposed proposals – both air-satellite and new agricultural taxes – is that they appear to be pure taxes, they have no environmental impact. Nor does it want to impose a levy on the production of bovine animals, because what will happen then is that in order to meet the need for meat in Norway, a more meat will be imported. This means that one exports the greenhouse gas emissions. They will not be gone, they will only be transferred to the country that then increases its meat exports to Norway. It could not be the intention to introduce environmental measures that actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2367	I'll be brief, I'll continue with the question that was now asked. This applies, inter alia, to: the seat charge, which the Senterpartee opposed and argued against. But when we two years earlier increased the mineral oil charge, which is definitely having an environmental impact, the Senter party also went against it. What is the background? Is environmental taxes for which the Senterpartiet is, except in individual cases and other than those proposed – or is it such that you want to have the necessary environmental taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2374	It's probably true that the Center Party is skeptical to think that increasing taxes and taxes by itself is the solution to environmental problems, that's enough. We believe that a lot of the arguments relating to the Green Tax Commission also show that. We see, for example: that the future in our hands goes out and says, in terms of the levy on red meat, that it is very important, without taking into account – first of all – that one exports greenhouse gas emissions, but also that one ignores other important factors, such as the use of antibiotics and growth hormones, animal health when releasing GMOs. One has to see things in context, and one has to know that it works. If we know that it works, we're going to be involved in discussing it. In the case of a seat tax, we believe that if one had discussed a fuel tax instead of a seat tax, it would have been a much more interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2383	I fully agree with what Marit Arnstad says, that one has to see the whole of the policy and the overall consequences of the policy. But I also think it is worth pointing out that we have two industries in Norway that are completely exempt from the CO2 tax, namely the fishing industry and the agricultural industry, which pay less by giving one the opportunity to use tax-free fuel. I am not interested in taxing the agricultural industry harder. On the contrary, I think it is worth investing in Norwegian agriculture. But does not the representative of Arnstad agree that it would be sensible if, on the basis of a holistic approach, the agricultural industry too should contribute to greater energy efficiency improvement in the agricultural machinery, to see increased taxes on fuel in the agricultural industry in conjunction with other tax reductions, other tax reliefs, so that overall more incentives for energy efficiency improvement and fuel reduction could also be provided in the agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2395	The representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, has an interesting point: that if taxes and taxes are to work, they must at least be technologically changing – they must contribute to an actual change or improvement in technology. The centre party has been responsible for the CO2 charge on a Norwegian base because it has been very technology-driven on a Norwegian base. It has helped to reduce CO2 emissions per unit in the oil industry. It's been important. This is what we must consider: Could the same be possible by simply adding a levy on meat production as such – or on red fairy as such? I don't think so. I think that context is not so very clear in that area. If, instead, one had assumed that agriculture would have to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and go through the whole cycle of agricultural activity, both the emissions they have from their own means of operation, the way they operate the soil, the agronomy – that kind of thing – could have moved on. It doesn't do that by taxing them harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2413	Thank you very much for the presentation that was made on 12 April. After hearing the statement, it is my honest belief that the Council of State Helgesen has not received the core message in the Paris Agreement, namely that it is urgent, we have to do more, and we have to do it faster. It's just zero-emission solutions that are good enough now if we're going to be able to prevent dangerous climate change. I think it is a problem that the Council of State in its statement summarising the Paris agreement chooses to talk about airy climate goals in 2030, which no one will guarantee to hold Helgesen and the government responsible for. Instead, he should focus on doing something about the emissions for which he will be held responsible, namely the emissions by 2020. Everyone knows, as I said, that solving climate problems is a matter of urgency. The Paris Agreement underlines this. One of the things that was not mentioned in the State Council statement was that the Paris agreement clearly states about two very specific things. It says that emissions – with the commitments made – are expected to reach 55 gigatons. It's not good enough, it's in the deal. Emissions have to go down to 40 gigatons to reach the 2 degree target. Then, in my opinion, it doesn't hold up to having the starting point that Tina Bru has, that we have to wait and see until we get the report on what's going on to achieve the 1.5 degree goal, when we already know that we have to drastically reduce emissions just to reach the 2 degree goal. We don't have to wait and see. We know that we have to do a lot, and we have to do it quickly. We have promoted five demands in this debate, because we believe that one cannot have a policy that pushes on all the steps that it is necessary to take to achieve the climate objectives. We perceive that what Vidar Helgesen puts up to be is a waiting minister – instead of being a minister who takes the steps needed to achieve the climate goals set by a unanimous rise. I want to point out what Mr Korsberg said. He said that we should not set ourselves new goals, but that we need to achieve the goals you set. The goals we've set are very clear. That's the 2020 targets. We're going down to 47 million. tonnes by 2020, but that is not what the climate minister chooses to talk about, despite the fact that the climate agreement in Paris clearly states that it is urgent. The more it is done by 2020, the easier it will be to achieve the 2030 targets. Our five requirements are: 9 out of 10 new cars sold in 2020 must be fossil-free. We need to expand the goal that all new cars will be by 2025. This is a good example of why the use of technology is urgent. Cars run on the roads for 20 years, and if we're going to be closer to zero emissions, it's urgent. We can't push the technology into use by 2030. We have to do it as quickly as possible. We have to scrape plans for new runways on the Gardermoen and Flesland and start planning the lightning trains between the largest cities. We need to stop the granting of new permits to the oil industry and determine what a global climate target of 1.5 degrees would have to say for the Norwegian oil industry – if we do not risk dramatic misinvestments for society, to the detriment of us as well as of the global climate. The government must present a plan for the Storting on how to use our renewable energy resources and the energy efficiency improvement to phase out all fossil energy use in Norway. And I just want to say, we've asked the government to do that in the energy message, which we have every reason to believe will come tomorrow. If there's not a plan to phase out all fossil use, well, then the government doesn't do its job. We need to secure the first industrial project that uses hydrogen as a substitute for coal. The Tizir industrial holding in Tyssedal may indicate the path to zero emissions by using hydrogen as a reducing agent instead of coal. It'll have a huge transfer value to many other industries. Is the zero-emission society the description of a dark future? No, the sad future comes only if we continue as before. I understand with the statement that has been made, that Vidar Helgesen is one of those who, with action – not with words – continues as before. Then this is going to be a debate all the time about results, and not about words and actions. The government is measured by results – and they are at an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2450	The representative was in the oil industry in his post, and SV voted against the Johan Sverdrup field in Stortinget. There are also many voices in the environmental movement that say that there will be both space and the need for oil, and perhaps especially gas, in the carbon budget up to 2050. SV is closely opposed to the Environmental Party of the Greens' oil policy, which involves a controlled closure of Norwegian oil and gas industries within 20 years. When SV says no to a field such as Johan Sverdrup, which is also intended to use force from land, does that mean that SV is also in favour of a guided winding-up, and if so, what is the time frame of SV for the implementation of such winding-up? Finally, will SV then put ultimatum in any new government negotiations with the Workers' Party for the closure of Norwegian oil and gas industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2457	No, we're not adding up to winding up the Norwegian oil industry, but we think we've come to a time when we have to stick our finger in the ground and see what the climate agreement in Paris really means to the Norwegian oil industry. If not, we are at risk of very serious misinvestments. We have already seen examples of misinvestment. We see the expansion of the Goliath field, for example, which is now so expensive that it is unlikely to be profitable for society, and when we know that the state subsidizes most of the expansion through the tax system, we risk serious misinvestment if we don't sit down and make a reasonable and thorough analysis of what kind of oil and what kind of gas it carries to extract within a 1.5 degree society. I note – and I am a little surprised about that – that in what is Norway’s main industry, one is not willing to take the political debate and do the investigations that are needed to provide the framework for the oil industry for the future in an informed way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2465	A few weeks ago, Kjetil B. Alstadheim wrote a comment in The Business Life of Today entitled ‘What is happening in Norwegian climate policy? Vidar Helgesen plays pause music.» I had hoped that the Council of State would take advantage of the opportunity to turn this pause music off in its climate policy statement, for the time being the most critical factor in the struggle to resolve the climate crisis. For every year that goes without taking action that works, and as we know how it works, it becomes harder, more expensive and less likely that we are able to prevent a heating that triggers dangerous feedback mechanisms. Permafrost tins and releases methane, reduced ice cover yields greater heating, etc. We know this, and in winter, the alarm went to the climate scientists because the global average temperature is now rising alarmingly fast. This includes, inter alia: based on data from Norway. This illustrates what we know very well: how busy we are, but when you hear the Council of State's statement, you'd think we had all the world's time. Governments use their place to argue that we need more knowledge before we can update our goals. He will wait for a special report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to be presented in 2018. He will wait to accelerate the objective of climate neutrality until we have received the final confirmation of the Norwegian 2030 objective under the Paris Agreement, which is due to take place by 2020, and thus it can take up to four to five years before we begin to translate the promises of Paris into concrete policies to which businesses, administration, counties and municipalities can relate, and they are asking for signals now. Has the State Council assessed what it will mean by costs, and what will it mean for the ability to meet the 1.5 degree ambition, that it will not start now? Let me draw a single problem. A study published in the journal Nature spring 2015 confirms what we know relatively well: the 1.5-degree scenario implies that the carbon budget for the 21st century is halved compared to the 2-degree scenario. If we halve the carbon budget, it means briefly that the total carbon budget that we have left here in the world will be exhausted after twelve years, and so the question is: does the Council of State mean that we are going to spend four to five of these twelve years to figure out whether halved carbon budget means tougher climate policies? It is obvious that the government and the Green Party are fundamentally in disagreement with how a government should deliver climate solutions. Just two days ago, the government said no to the Greens and the SV's proposal for an action plan with concrete measures to meet the ambitions of Paris. This is despite the fact that in all other areas the government presents action plans in one case after another. And that happens despite the fact that an unplanned climate policy has been totally unsuccessful in Norway. Norway’s climate policy is spectacular in one way, and that is that it does not work, and we are surrounded by countries that have climate policies that work and cut emissions. We'll have to take this over soon. It is also incomprehensible to us in the Greens that it is precisely in the climate policy, where the urgency is greatest, and where the most at stake, that the Council of State does not think it is entirely right to have a plan for solving the problem. The statement made by the Council of State illustrates very clearly why Norway needs a real climate law, because what the climate law will do is to oblige the authorities to make a plan and to cut the emissions that they have promised to cut. There is no doubt that the representative Bru is right that several of the government's climate action is good and will reduce emissions over time. But it is quite alarming that she and the government representatives in the framework seriously claim that there is no sense in setting concrete targets for the impact of these measures, and that there is no sense in measuring them against measures that will have the opposite effect in time and space, so that we have some idea of the whole of the outcome of these measures, which in themselves are good, and which the government boasts, but which we do not know the effect of. Imagine if the Right had presented its heaviest actions in health policy and said that they believe that the impact of these measures is, it's not so careful, it's probably going well. I don't think it would be accepted very much. It's this on a large scale that State Council Helgesen also says: we have to wait a long time, while we know that it's urgent, we have to wait for more knowledge, while we know that we really have it. What I hope can happen in this debate or soon, is that the government turns off the pause music in climate policy and starts delivering concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2487	The Ministry of Climate and Environment recently purchased climate allowances from three of Scatec Solar’s planned solar power plants in West Africa. ‘The Ministry of Climate and Environment points in the direction of purchasing climate quotas from solar energy, and the agreement stimulates the development of sustainable projects at the expense of oil and coal in the power supply.’ That's what the director of Scatec Terje Osmundsen said. This allowance purchase will reduce CO2 emissions by 330000 tonnes by 2020. The Green Party has said that they want to end quota markets and allow countries to sail their own seas after the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, even though they have honoured the Paris Agreement. One of the important mechanisms in this agreement is the further development of the allowance market, precisely to help poor and vulnerable countries cut emissions and have more sustainable energy systems. My question is: why will the Green Party wind up what 126 countries in the world say is an important part of actually meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2502	Scatec Solar's projects are not going to cut emissions. They are replaced by additional increases in emissions from other production. It's very important to have the rhetoric and the use of words in place here. As long as those photovoltaic projects are not part of an overall emission plan in a country like South Africa, we do not know the total effect of it. Therefore, it is also a bad idea to bring the so-called cuts back to the Norwegian climate budget. On the other hand, it is a very good idea, as the Greens support, to invest in such measures in South Africa and in all sorts of other countries. We are in favour of it to a greater extent than the Right does, but we believe it is wrong to take the alleged emission cuts that these projects give into income for and instead of cutting in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2510	Let me start by thanking you for a good debate, which reflects impatience. Let me also refer to the post of the chairman of the committee, where he also stressed the systematics. The government and the cooperation parties are systematically working on strengthening Norwegian climate policy, area by area, in particular in the five areas we have identified. We place great emphasis on research, innovation and technological development as essential if we are to cope with the climate disaster. There we stand for concrete action. Once we have strengthened the Climate and Energy Fund far beyond the climate agreement, it is possible that Enova has supported more than 270 million in the last few months. kr to Hordaland in order to provide infrastructure for all roadside connections there. There's something that makes it possible to fight Hydro Karmøy, bet on Elkem Her Island, etc. When we have almost tripled the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway, the proportion of green projects in Innovation Norway rose from 28 p.m. in one year. to 38 pst. We are focusing on research centres for environmentally friendly energy. We are in the process of operating the Renewable AS fund. We have also, as an important contribution to technology development, presented a new law on public procurement – all agencies need to have a green procurement plan. We have historically high rail budgets, which means that we have record passenger numbers on the railway. We have more than quadrupled the appropriations for urban environmental agreements from 2015 to 2016. The emissions target for new cars in 2020 will be reached in 2017. We have ordered for the first time a climate strategy for the national transport plan. The need to work with the industry was mentioned instead. Well – the government’s Green Competitiveness Expert Committee is working with Norwegian Industry on a low-emission roadmap for industry. So there's systematics in this work, and it's concrete action. We're concerned with systematics as well as international issues. Our EU track is part of a national and European systematic effort. We want more coordinated climate policies, more holistic climate policies, more predictable climate policies and more committed climate policies. Let us all be honest – everyone who has been in government responsibility in this country: We have 30 years of experience in Norway with climate targets that have not been achieved. With our EU track, we want to link Norwegian climate goals to more committed international cooperation. It gives predictability. That's what gives the predictability that business demands. I am happy to receive a response from some business operators that there is a pressing need to achieve completely separate national targets. The EU track is highly welcome because it is known that framework conditions similar to European partners and competitors are sensible. That doesn't mean we're sitting quietly waiting. On the contrary. Norway, because we are not an EU member, has less reason to wait than the EU Member States have, because we need to be on the ball to try to influence our views long before EU Member States have to do so. We have done so in the context of the EU's quota system, which is now under debate in the European Parliament. We do it in terms of the effort-sharing decision, and we do it in terms of forestry and land use. It's important. We're not resting. I'm going to go on KLM's Amsterdam flight with 47 pst this afternoon. biofuels to attend the informal EU Environment Ministerial Meeting tonight and tomorrow. An important part of this job is to bring Norwegian views on EU policy to the fore. Then we're busy with the global picture. The Paris Agreement also has a systematic approach. The Paris Agreement was a success in the sense of achieving a high level of ambition, but that level of ambition will never be achieved if systematic follow-up work is not taken into account. It is the first thing to get the agreement to come into force, and then make countries progressively mobilise for increased commitments. In that work, Norwegian leadership will be very important. This is true in diplomatic work, but it is also true in aid efforts, not least in forestry — perhaps the most important instrument in Norway for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2524	There is no one in this Chamber who will leave the EU track, at least no one has expressed it in this debate, not in previous debates either. The concern is that, in its own statement, the Council of State says that the formalities with the EU will hardly be in place until the end of 2017, it may be 2018, and even – because it is likely to be demanding negotiations within the EU too – it may be 2019. What experience does the Minister for Climate and Environment have of such a time axis in relation to the impatience of all parties in this Chamber, with the exception of his own party and the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2530	We said last year's big news: ‘Although a joint fulfilment agreement with the EU can be put in place relatively quickly, it may take time before the final agreement with the EU is negotiated.’ A form of intentional agreement was put in place last year through the decision-making process and by decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. The possibility of such an agreement is also enshrined in the Paris Agreement. Then there is the next step in the EU's policy development, and there we do not have control of the timetable, but we are at the forefront to help things go quickly, and to reflect our views. We now know that it is a maximum of three months until the Commission comes up with its proposal for an effort-sharing decision. It will be the start of an intense European debate, where Norway must also participate. It will be a failed initiative to come up with Norwegian targets three months before the Commission makes its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2540	We experience great impatience in climate policy in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. We see this through the promotion of many different representative proposals. In the light of all these proposals, is my question to the Council of State: does the Council of State see the need to present a sort of climate package to make the government's overall climate policy visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2545	I have a strong understanding of impatience, I have worked enough with EU processes and Norway's relationship with EU processes to know that impatience. But I am also very concerned that there is a systemicity in the EU process, which will serve Norwegian climate policy, and which will serve to reduce emissions. I believe that in the big news of joint implementation with the EU, we included five areas of action, which are a holistic, ambitious climate policy, and which we fulfil not least through excellent cooperation with the cooperation parties. Then there are many suggestions in the Stortinget – or soon to the Stortinget. It concerns the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission, the Law on Public Acquisitions, the Energy Act, the Energy Communication, which is coming soon, and the consent proposal on the Paris Agreement – and a little further on: National Transport Plan, Industry Communication, Communication on Circular Economy and Climate Law. There are many things coming, but everything comes out of our bet in the five areas of effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2552	The impatience in this room is great. I understand that the Council of State will wait for the European Union. But it is still happening in the areas that the government has prioritised as its areas of action, and one of the things that happens is that the energy message will be submitted tomorrow. Not so much is said about what one wants in energy policy, but unfortunately Norway is one of the best countries to contribute to some of that infrastructure through electricity, on which much of digitisation and technology will depend. Let me ask the Council of State: does he think that an offensive strategy for sea wind should be devised and that we should not just deliver to Scotland? Does he think that the oil fund should be allowed to invest in unlisted shares in renewable energy? Does he mean that we should enable State Power and State Forest to participate in the development of new renewable energy? Will it be submitted tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2559	The representative Arnstad is right that there will be an energy message tomorrow. Then she will probably also understand that she will have to wait until tomorrow to find out what's in it. But renewable energy is an important part of the government’s climate policy. Norway is a renewable nation. We're going to be an energy nation in the future, after the oil. It still means investing in hydropower, but it also means investing in wind. The representative of Arnstad can rely on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2564	I agree with the Council's description that we have had 30 years with climate targets. What's common to these goals is that we haven't achieved them. So we're going to set ambitious targets, and then we're going to kind of see how it works, based on the sum of what you can do. The big shift in this ageing period is precisely that we now want to link ourselves to the EU objective, which we were unable to achieve with the 2020 targets, and we see how the climate agreement has been. We're going to try to make it better over the years. But absolutely crucial when we connect to the EU, it is precisely that it not only becomes a bilateral agreement, but that we get the necessary legal commitment so that we ensure that we reach the targets, and that Norway also comes under a sanction regime if we were not to do a good enough job. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Is the Council of State quite clear that it is precisely an objective to come within the legal obligation that gives us the same implementation requirements as other EU countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2573	The government has as its starting point, and the Stortinget has agreed to the starting point, that we are applying for a bilateral agreement with the EU, but it will be a negotiating issue with the EU. Then it is the EU’s policy design that will be crucial to the content of the commitments of the European countries, as well as Norway’s commitment. EU policies come in the form of regulations and directives, and the relevant directives here we have to expect will be relevant to the EEA. In any case, they will be included in the EEA Agreement and will therefore follow the EEA architecture. At least that must be the assumption we have. Then we'll see what the negotiations lead to when it comes to whether we're getting an impact on our desire for the agreement itself to be a bilateral agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2578	One of the things that was said in the statement yesterday was that we can expect from the Norwegian side to get commitments in the non-quota sector that are up to 40 pst. Another of the things that came out of the statement yesterday was that it seems that we can use forest growth in Norway to replace emissions cuts, among others. in the transport sector. A third thing that came out was that we have presented a climate strategy from the transport modes that says it's possible to cut 50 pst. of the emissions from transport. Then I ask the Council of State: why is the government opposed to setting a clear emission target for the transport sector to which the national transport plan is to be aligned? Why is the government against it? Is it because they want to plant forest instead of cutting emissions in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2585	Let there be no doubt that no matter what numbers we talk about here, there will be a significant need to cut emissions in the transport sector. The process of cutting transport is in progress, but it is clear that we cannot stop at the passenger car market. It must be cut in heavy transport, and strong – as the government does – must also be invested in green shipping. In the case of forests, our clear starting point is that no matter what rules you agree on in terms of forest and land use, accounting methods do not lower the level of ambition. What we are concerned about is that if countries are to be able to credit for forest emissions, they must have new forest measures and not existing forests. So there's a new, active climate policy that might result in that type of accounting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2592	It appears from the government’s 2016 government budget that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are expected to increase in the years ahead with a normal trend. This is the numerical attachment. So the government claims that various good measures for emissions reduction that they will implement will reduce emissions. This is not what the government wants to do. Norway is now going to join the EU's climate policy, which aims to provide large emissions reductions. That's good. And so we're going to meet the Paris agreement, but there's not yet a plan for how to do it. Can the Council clarify whether it believes that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will increase or decrease in time until we have actually achieved a binding implementation agreement with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2599	When we have referred to the fact that emissions may turn out to have increased in 2015 and possibly increase in 2016, it is simply based on projections that our leading professional authority has made, which could indicate that. But there are no final numbers -- they'll be pretty soon. It is the Environment Directorate that has made the projection. What we know, on the other hand, is that Norwegian industry has almost halved emissions over a few decades, while production has increased. So we know that it's possible to disconnect CO2 emissions from the growth curve, and that's why we're so dedicated to investing in technology development, investing in research and innovation that can not only cut emissions for years but also ensure that we get to the low-carbon society in a way that creates a prosperous and rich welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2615	The world came to an end in Paris with a global and ambitious agreement, and the presentation provided a good overview of the content of the agreement. The operational now is the urgent need for climate action and more implementation. Tactical shifts cannot be a change of pace in words, they must be in action – in industry, which receives fewer and more expensive quotas, and in all other sectors of Norwegian society. Should the company, the consumer and the investor change the course, need predictability and clear signals about where to go. It is shorter by 2030 than it has been since the year 2000 – short time, in other words. Therefore, I would warn against waiting for negotiations with the European Union and other countries to be reported before we get started at home, so that it can be felt and noticed. The Council of State was concerned that Norway has led the international climate negotiations – praise for it – but it is striking that the government is showing so weak and unclear leadership here at home, where we are going to make changes. It's too small, and once again we get postponements. Before Christmas, the Prime Minister said that the agreement with the EU might not be in place until 2017. Now the Council of State says that the agreement is hardly in place until the end of 2017. The government sends a signal to wait and see. The size agreement has agreed that Norway, as part of a global and ambitious agreement, will accelerate the carbon neutrality target from 2050 to 2030. The 60 pst. In addition to our national cut, which is a contribution to cutbacks outside Europe, which is particularly important for developing countries, the objective remains to be achieved. The Paris Agreement encourages countries to strengthen climate finance. In spite of this, the government has concluded that they will not accelerate the goal of carbon neutrality. The government praises the ambition and the break-up of the Paris Agreement, but says that the premise to speed up the goal of carbon neutrality is not met. This matter shall be reviewed in 2020. Once again, we're going to have postponements. Norway must so far be the only country that uses the Paris Agreement to reduce its own ambitions. They are talking about an agreement that is global and ambitious, but the consequences should not lead to action. How can the Council of State feel that this is a good contribution to increasing ambitions? I hope he answers that in this room. It may seem that the government is choosing to postpone the climate job to after the roll-out in 2017. The working party would like to do that job, but for climate reasons we should do more now. There is nothing to prevent the government from presenting concrete climate action, inviting the sectors to define targets on the road or accelerating the carbon neutrality target. The Labour Party will, in the time to come, seek a majority for our 40 new climate proposals, proposals that will take us towards a more circular economy with lower emissions. I hope that is the basis for the majority of parties that want more in climate policy than the Right Party government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2632	In this debate, several have argued that the government has done nothing in the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's a statement I would strongly disagree with. Never before has such a strong focus been placed on research and development of new climate-friendly technologies, laws and regulations being tightened up, and tax systems have been twisted towards making environmentally friendly choices. As the Minister described in his statement, there has been a historical commitment to research and development in recent years. The eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway has increased by some 200 million. DKK to half a billion. Enova gets 2.2 billion. So I'm going to spend $690 million. kr only for CO2 handling. In the transport sector in particular, Enova has made a significant contribution through aid for the rapid charging of electric cars and shore-side electricity for ships, and they contribute to the flow of electricity instead of diesel to the ferries in Hordaland. Public transport offers have strict environmental requirements, and we see that electricity, biogas and, in the long term, hydrogen will contribute to a large reduction in transport emissions over the next few years. This shows that the current bet will produce results in a few years. It will also contribute to technological development in industry and business. When we export Norwegian aluminium and silicon, which are produced with clean Norwegian wind and hydropower and not dirty coal, we export renewable energy and not least environmental technologies in solid form. Therefore, it is important to continue to focus on increasing the production of clean electricity from renewable energy. Europe’s largest wind farm is now built on Fosen, and there is great potential to streamline many of our hydropower plants. The government will soon present both an energy message and an industry message, with measures that will help to achieve our ambitious climate targets. Norway was also among the 20 participating countries that signed the agreement Mission Innovation at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference. The aim is to double the efforts on research and development investments over the next five years, in order to increase the production of clean energy as a contribution to global economic growth and welfare development. In climate policy, we need to think in the long term and ensure predictability. That is why it is very important that we have a broad climate agreement nationally and a global Paris agreement. The fact that we are impatient and ambitious on our own, and not least on behalf of our descendants, is a very good starting point for Norway to continue to be the spearhead in both reducing its own emissions and helping to reduce emissions globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2648	It is huge upheavals in the global energy systems that are needed to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. In addition, we have another important decision that was taken internationally last year, and it was the sustainable development goals set by the UN General Assembly. These are two important decisions for the further development of life on our planet. The thing is, we have a long way to go. We know that. It shows all the numbers. It shows all the projections being presented. Norway is in many ways included in Chapter 2 of the book on the road to the low-carbon society. Unlike very many other countries, we have a power supply that is essentially renewable. That means that our task in this job is to pick the higher hanging fruits. It's not that easy to do it. We don't get the big emitters that you get elsewhere. That means that we need to make a strong effort to achieve these goals. Research and development are both necessary and very good. It has to be intensified, it has to be done, but without using new technology, without us getting it widespread, we don't get results from that technology: we don't get emissions from research, we get emissions cut when research is put into practice. Therefore, it is very important for us in the Workers' Party to develop carbon capture and storage projects in Norway as soon as possible, concrete projects that can help reduce emissions – not just research, although research is important. I don't think low CO2 emissions are a threat to living standards and quality of life. The transition to a low-carbon society I see as a further development of a good, modern society. But every year that goes without getting the emission reductions that mongooses, without us taking the measures needed to get to where we are going, increases the risk of having to screw harder when time starts to run out. This may mean that we come into the situation that the representative of Korsberg fears, namely that this should be a heavy burden for our business life, for our working life. That's why it's so incredibly important – when we see that the government is not willing to take the steps that need to be taken – that this climate policy is being developed in the United Kingdom now, for the next and a half years, until we get a government that really takes hold of the situation and does what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2662	I thought it was time for someone from the Transport Committee to come to the Chair, since we are an essential part of the solution. The climate minister’s presentation contains a good analysis of the situation and the challenges we face. However, I have noticed the offensive and, in particular, the optimistic tone of the statement. In this regard, I quote from the Minister's statement: ‘ in the year 2015 of the Paris Agreement, 20 pst had passed. [[...]] of world power generation renewable but nearly 90 pst. from renewable sources of new generation in the world. Major changes in transport, in particular as the development of battery storage is disruptive. Battery power is rising quickly, and its cost is falling rapidly. Only last year it sank by 35 pst.’ I have also noticed that it is largely in the intersection of energy and transport that the climate struggle will be decided. I would like to say that in the NTP guidelines for 2018-2029 sent by the government, a general objective for the transport sector is formulated as follows: «A secure transport system promotes value creation and contributes to migration to the low-carbon society.» The Annex to the Transport Plan, the Basis for Climate Strategy, states: ‘Etats must develop their role as a knowledge provider and drive to meet society’s expectations for the sector, while at the same time providing the low-carbon society with a long-term premise for future priorities in interaction with security and value creation.’ In the same attachment, the entities have chosen to base the absolute cut of 50 pst. compared to today’s emissions of 16,5 million. tonnes by 2030, which is in line with St.meld. No 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU. So it's based on the plan that's now being developed, a significant cut for the transport sector, perhaps larger than what you've seen so far. It is worth noting that the same document, the Basis for Climate Strategy, concludes that: ‘Without a major shift to new technologies and fuels, it will almost be impossible to achieve a sufficiently large cut in greenhouse gas emissions.’ It is a point that Norway, and perhaps not least this region, has been in the forefront of creating a market for electric cars. Now we see how the bet is around the world on this. I totally disagree that we haven't done anything in the meantime. We're building more railways. We reduce the maintenance run on the railway, which provides more use of the railway as an alternative means of transport. 50 pst. grants to heavy infrastructure in the major cities. It's worth choosing environmentally friendly, but we're still struggling with diesel cars that were purchased in piles during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2692	I find it fascinating that the government's representatives talk about how bad it is with all the diesel cars that the red-green government started, all the time they haven't promoted a single significant measure to reduce the number of new diesel cars on Norwegian roads. But leave it. I feel the need to grasp a few of the things that have been up in the debate. There's always a big bet on Enova. Yes, the big effort on Enova must be the biggest climate blow in Norway's history, because if you go in and look at the numbers, you see we're not talking about billions, but we're talking about millions. It sounds very nice to talk about a huge increase in fund of billions, but if you look at what Enova has actually got in extra funds to spend on his bet, one sees that it's significantly less, because increased appropriations to Enova have been matched by increased responsibilities. In the past, Transnova received its own money. The government transferred responsibility for Transnova to Enova, but the money didn't follow. The government left responsibility for some of the research on carbon capture and storage to Enova, but some of the money was not included. A tax deduction was promised for households. All of a sudden, 250 million. kr of the tax deduction is covered by Enova – sum: 129 million. kr extra to Enova's annual bet. 129 million. kr is less than one quarter of the contribution to the increased petroleum research provided by the government. And then it gets a little bit smaller. I'd like to challenge Vidar Helgesen, if that's how he has other numbers. With regard to the net of the extra money that Enova has had to bet, I would be very happy that he looks at it. I feel the need to support Jonas Gahr Støre in what he says. I believe it is a breach of the climate agreement when, on the one hand, it says that the climate agreement in Paris is a historic agreement, while on the other hand it is not historic enough for us to fulfill the Norwegian promise of carbon neutrality. I also feel the need to criticise the commitment to renewable energy, because the Council of State said that the commitment to renewable energy is important for this government. So they have cut two thirds of renewable energy aid. They've cut through the entire offshore wind deployment of state power, and rumors say it's cut in the bet on green certificates after 2020. Then I say, if the investment in renewables is important to the government, I wonder how things are going with those areas that are not important to the government. Governments will not make a climate plan because the planned economy is not working. Well, national transport plans are to have, national health plans are to have, but climate targets are to be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2709	I'm not going to repeat everything we do in the five priority areas of climate policy, but I'm going to focus on a few of Jonas Gahr Støres' points. One is about the EU process: it is not like we are waiting for the EU, but we are working on policy developments towards the EU and with the EU. There are few in this room who know more – and better – than Jonas Gahr Støre that EU processes can be time consuming. However, there is no waiting process in relation to the EU, and there is no waiting process for national action. With regard to the question of speeding up the carbon neutrality target, from 2050 to 2030, it is true that the wording and premise of the climate reconciliation is that, in that case, there would be a global and ambitious agreement, but it also states that such an acceleration is conditional on other developed countries accepting large enough commitments. The Paris decision itself – and we are serious about it – says that countries have taken on far enough commitments to reach the 2-degree target, i.e. from Cancun in 2010, and much less the 1.5-degree ambition. The other side of our reasoning is that the aim of speeding up the carbon neutrality target by Norway will not least be to get more countries to take on greater ambitions, more at the level of the EU and Norway’s objectives. Therefore, it is important that we have the instrument with us when the next station arrives, when countries will deliver their final commitments, not least on the basis of the Climate Change Panel’s 2018 report. So it's not that we reject such an acceleration, but we believe that the premise for it is not present now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2718	We are discussing a historic agreement, and we also thank the Labour Party for the efforts of the government, the Norwegian negotiators and not least the French host, which led to a historic agreement. But that's the case now, because it's now that every country has to do the job. Vidar Helgesen's first – and really only – big play has been so far that at his post the emissions are probably not going to go down. That's the recipe for not reaching the Paris agreement. If the government can sit for four years without bringing down the emissions, yes, then we do not reach the objectives of the Paris agreement. This morning the Storting discussed equality, and there are actually some clear common features between the debate we had this morning and the one we have now. And there is consensus in the opposition that the government does not deliver – it did not do so in terms of equality, nor does it do so in terms of climate. There is one climate issue in this period, which has now been in place for almost three years, and it is about climate objectives. So it's now used as an argument to train other climate proposals. All other decisions taken on climate in this room have been promoted as proposals from the opposition. From the government team we have even seen that it is drained: it has been over a year since the Stortinget decided on low-emission zones. The government and the Minister of Transport have done nothing, and therefore the Workers' Party went to the unusual step of promoting a legal text in the Stortinget. At the end of the day, the Committee voted unanimously in favour of the text promoted by the Workers' Party. It's indicative of this government that when they're going to brag about their efforts, whether it's in the debate here, in the questionnaire or elsewhere they boast about what the government is doing in terms of climate, they refer to the victories that the Left and Christian People's Party has got. It's true, I guess, as Trine Skei Grande says, this government has left the whole job to the left. Systematics was a key word in the article to Vidar Helgesen, but I would say that climate work is little systematic. Now there are over 20 climate proposals in the committee, and none of them come from the government. It gives us a big job, in the opposition, and I want us to appeal a little bit to each other that when the government doesn't lead the way, we get others to take responsibility. We in the Labour Party hope to support our proposals, and then we will go through the proposals of others properly and systematically. Finally, I heard State Council Helgesen say in a radio debate this week that he did not come to the covered table, and after two years with Tine Sundtoft I agree that he did not. But this government must soon stop blaming others. The climate agreement was adopted in 2012. In 2017 there have been four years with this government, and then there was one year with the Stoltenberg II government. It is the responsibility of this government to reach the climate agreement. We also heard Tina Bru say that this government has reinforced the climate agreement, but there are no representatives from the government who can say that they are going to reach the climate agreement at all. The climate agreement must be reached before it can be reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2735	‘The transition to the low-carbon society poses particularly major challenges for Norway’, said the Minister for Climate and Environment on Tuesday. If Norway does not cope with the transition to the low-emission society, who can? What country can we expect to be able to cope with this? We in Norway have all the prerequisites: we have a highly educated population, we have under several governments invested in research and development, and our industry is in a particular class in terms of energy efficiency and innovation. In addition, we are the world's leading supplier of electric cars, and we have strict construction requirements. If it involves ‘high challenges for Norway in particular’, what can we expect from greenhouse gas emission reductions in other countries? Norway has specific conditions to cope with the transition to a low-carbon society — that is my claim. We need to show that it is possible to have a high level of well-being and prosperity while at the same time moving from being a fossil emitter society to a modern low-carbon society. To achieve this, we need to significantly increase the production of energy from renewable energy sources over time. Conversion offers opportunities, and many companies see a high potential for creating new jobs and revenues through climate-friendly solutions. The Minister for Climate and Environment spoke on Tuesday about green competitiveness. What's in it? I spoke on Monday with a manager who said it like this: Green shifts have been going on for many years. There is nothing new that this government invented as soon as the oil price dropped. Norway has the economic, human and natural resources and prerequisites to meet the potential to become a low-carbon society. In the transport sector, we have a great potential. It is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and 32 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector. That is why we in the Workers' Party believe that a support scheme for the development of hydrogen-based transport infrastructure must be established. That is what we have been proposing in Stortinget, among which 40 other good proposals that the government parties have the opportunity to support, but hydrogen-based cars did not at all mention the Minister for Climate and Environment in his statement on Tuesday. What does the Minister for Climate and Environment think about this? In addition, we want to facilitate increased use of renewable biofuels, with increased incorporation – up to 40 pst. in the transport sector – and must be considered for mobile sources such as tractors and construction machinery by 2030. What does the Minister for Climate and Environment think about this proposal, as he also mentioned in his statement? We believe that fossil energy consumption in the new car sales of passenger cars and vans should be phased out, and that the charging system should be set up in such a way that all new car sales by 2025 are based on low or zero emission solutions. What does the Minister for Climate and Environment think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2754	The most positive thing about this debate – and what is positive – is that all parties are now fighting to be the most ambitious and to be for climate action. In the rhetoric, a lot has changed in recent years, and it's positive. By listening to the games you no longer notice the big differences. Now that's the credibility it's going on. It is also about the political choices, and when the individual issues come up, the dividing lines also come up. Whether it concerns changes in the Energy Act, the organisation of the railway sector or other measures, there are clear policy lines. Organisational changes must also be built in order to achieve objectives, and credibility in terms of implementation is also at stake. When I hear the Labour Party, they have one problem in the offensive attitude they show, and it is that they lack credibility in their implementation. For those who remember the eight years we have behind us, with the previous government, it was the lack of implementation and frustration of implementation that was the basis for us in the Left thinking that we had to have a new majority on the Biggest. You messed up the investment in biofuels. We've fixed that up now. There were other areas where there was standstill. Perhaps the biggest effort on development in the oil and gas sector to bring up the activity — with the cost-effective effect it had — was a problem. It is a fact that the dynamics and innovations we now have – even in the case of action – are completely independent of both who is behind the decisions on the Storting and whether it is in budgetary terms or in individual decisions – as a result of our having a new, bourgeois majority. In the left, we are satisfied that we are central and are the decisive initiator of many of the decisions. There's no doubt that that's what makes us have a new dynamics now. Just take it that we are now sitting here discussing EU targets of 40 p.m. emissions reduction by 2030, for which everyone is now in favour: no one demanded that we commit ourselves to EU requirements before the bourgeois majority made the proposal that we should have a separate agreement with the EU. I really do not think that under the previous government it would have been possible for Norway to have a binding, legally binding agreement with the EU in order to achieve the 2030 targets. Then I think you would still have a climate deal, with the obligation that it meant. The change has given us a whole new dynamic, and now all parties are obliged to make sure that we build a credibility for the implementation of what we are now saying. It's not just about saying what you mean – you also have to do what you say, and nothing is done until it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2773	When the Paris Agreement was presented to the world, there was a lot of brilliance to pick up, both internationally and locally in Norway. Former Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft also received many good words, along with all his employees, for doing a formidable job. The world was given a vision of global zero emissions by this century. We put in place that all countries will come back every five years and deliver new climate targets. And we got a reporting system that allows us to understand and compare the reports on emissions reductions from the different countries. After the agreement, there was reason to celebrate, but also to fold up the sleeves for what we now have to do. Norway aims at joint implementation with the EU in order to achieve the 2030 climate objectives. Joint implementation with the EU will provide Norway with a solid, committed and predictable European legislation based on the implementation of our objectives. Such joint implementation is also based on the Paris Agreement. When the government presented its plans for a joint commitment with the EU to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, it was generally welcomed. So most people are satisfied with the Paris agreement and that the way ahead is going with and in good time with the EU. So why the great words and the sometimes powerful results during the debate here today? Dugnad is a good Norwegian word, and I think most people here in the hall have participated in one, including me. My experience is that the most successful have been where the participants have worked together and have not spent the time disagreeing about who is going to hold the hammer, and who is going to fry waffles. That's the result of the trick that counts. The government has proposed many measures to prepare Norway for the transition towards a low-carbon society. Only in the last draft budget, for 2016, there are a lot of points within, for example: the transport sector, funds for the municipalities, the climate and energy fund, Enova, Innovation Norway – all proposed by the government. Following budgetary cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, additional points have been added. The Minister for Climate and Environment had a good review of the challenges here on Tuesday. He said that the Paris Agreement will not only lead to changes, it is an expression of major changes. And that job we and this government are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2792	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2795	I agree that it is a point to contract and agree. The problem, however, is that we have a government that has not promoted a significant cut-off on the climate side. Everything has come after pressure from the opposition. So it's the government parties that disagree and have voted against some of the proposals. So I just want to address the question of climate neutrality. There it is that Helgesen uses the argument: there are not enough commitments in the world to go in for Norway to do more. But we're getting rid of about 25 pst. more per capita than they do in EU countries. And if you look at the emissions that we've been feeding the world from 1990 until today because of our oil exports, it's us that are among those who are helping the very least to achieve the goal. Then there will be some Erasmus Montanus logic if we continue to say: they will not do more, we will continue to pollute more, and therefore we cannot assume greater obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2802	First, a little visit to the representative Ola Elvestuen. I have a great deal of understanding that the Left needs to try to protect itself and the Government by attacking the Workers' Party, but it's actually that the Left is also co-responsive of what goals are achieved in relation to 2020 and 2030 based on what is the current situation. So I think what we've been witnessing today and on Tuesday, in retrospect is going to have one headline, and that's the lost time. That's exactly what government parties are saying, that one is not doing anything right now because one is waiting for the EU. I think it's a little strange, because no matter how you count on the effects of measures, no matter how positive and powerful they are, we're far from the climate agreement and the 2020 targets, and we're far from meeting the commitments we have to make in 2030. So it's a paradox that we're in a lost time. The fact that this Storting is invited to ratify the Paris Agreement in a few months' time, but at the same time does not take responsibility for how the agreement is to be implemented nationally, is a major political paradox, that the government invites to ratify an important agreement without any indication of how to achieve the obligations arising from the agreement. Then it is said that it is working in parallel with the EU. Yeah, I think only the government parties can see that. There is no one else in this room who has stated that one can see the contours of working in parallel with the EU on climate issues. On the contrary, there's a lot of people here who have said that they just don't see it. And then it's the premise to assess whether the Paris Agreement is a sufficient basis for accelerating Norway's carbon-neutralisation up to 2030: that the Council of States is standing here and rejecting it without talking to those who are conciliators, I think I'm extremely remarkable and should create an automatic reflection on all parties involved in the conciliation, except the Right, that we might once again have to instruct this government in a climate issue by decision in the Storting. That's what's the consequence, as the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås just said: All climate-related measures have emerged through the majority of the Storting and not because of the government, but despite the government. That is the reality for two and a half years now. All the tribute to the Left again and all the tribute to the Christian People's Party that through the budgets has drawn it in the right direction. Finally, let me encourage the representative of Korsberg to go to the pulpit and now confirm once and for all that the Progress Party recognises that the climate challenges are due to anthropogenic emissions. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2817	The President is asking you to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2820	After the last posts, I think there is a need to say a few words at the end. Because there's a tendency, when you're going to talk about the future, that some of the parties and some of the speakers are back in the past, and the representative Elvesuen and several of the others from the government side have ended up there today. Then I have to say that it has happened quite a lot in 15 years – it has. There was a good deal happening under Bondevik II, and a lot has also happened under the red-green government. What we're trying to talk about today is what's going to happen in the future, and what you've recorded in today's debate is a great impatience in the United Kingdom after having a more comprehensive debate – a more global debate on your own goals and ambitions. It must, I think, be possible to have without one falling back to what happened five years ago, six years ago, ten years ago or 15 years ago. A new majority in the 2013 elections was no watershed. There was no watershed at all. As the representative of Aasland says, it is the opposition in Stortinget that has largely pushed forward either that the Christian People's Party and the Left have engaged in negotiations with the government and have benefited from it, or have pushed forward decisions through proposals presented by the opposition in the Stortinget. Some of those proposals have also been supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that's good. Many of the proposals have also changed from non-support. In order to avoid the loss of the government's face in the Great Britain, either the Christian People's Party has supported the government or the Left has supported the government, as appropriate. Such a game is a driver here in the Storting these days around these things, and it must be allowed to demand a debate on how we want it to go forward. I believe, like the representative Jonas Gahr Støre, that the government will bore the water and try to avoid this debate over the 2017 big elections. That's what it'll hope for, and I think that's a pity. At the end, I will also attach a few words to this with taxes and charges, because there were very many who were concerned about it in the line change with me. The CO2 tax on the base has worked well, it has been a technology changer. The conversion of the car charges system has worked well, as it has been behavioral. Taxes and charges are a good tool when used in this context. It is not to stop using the car that has been the goal of changing the car charges, but to change the car use and make it emission-free. The problem of airstations and agricultural levies is the opposite. A reduction in air traffic in Norway instead of a transition to aviation biofuels. And in agriculture, Norwegian food production, which is perhaps today Europe's most environmentally friendly, is reduced in favour of increased agricultural imports, which will lead to higher emissions elsewhere. That debate needs to be taken seriously, instead of saying that the simple answer is increased taxes and charges related to climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2834	I feel a little need to respond to what the representative Ola Elvestuen said. He criticized the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's credibility in climate policy. Then I need to inform Stortinget that – Stortinget is very aware of that – that is, among other things. The left, which has made sure that we have the government that we have today, which is largely training what comes from the initiative of the Stortinget, and which systematically cuts in the area of climate and the environment at every budget proposal that is submitted, such as forestry, for example. You cut systematically, and then the Left and Christian People's Party gets the joy of getting full penetration into the budget. For us on the outside, it's quite transparent that there's a game going on in the Stortinget, but the Left seems to be very pleased with it. So I also have to get into what's been taken up about carbon neutrality. The climate agreement is very clear that Norway – as part of a global and ambitious climate agreement, where other developed countries also assume commitments – is committed to carbon neutrality by 2030. It's in the climate agreement, which many people have been involved in. So state councillor Helgesen says the agreement is ambitious. It is undoubtedly global, it lies in the nature of the agreement, but because we are nervous that other countries should not do what we expect from them in line with the agreement, we should also wait and see there. So we're not going to trust that other countries get things, and then we obviously don't trust the deal either. When will Helgesen say that the premises to accelerate the goal of carbon neutrality are fulfilled? Is it only when other countries have completed their cuts that we can trust that what they say is true? If you want everyone to sit and wait and squawk at each other before anyone dares to take the step, we'll never have to cut the emissions a single tonne. We must have faith in the agreement we are part of! Helgesen boasts of what a fantastic leadership role Norway assumed until the agreement was a fact, and how good we were as a country. Then we, who were so good in Paris, should not do anything afterwards! It's nothing but fascinating. Finally, the Council of State takes up the EU process and underlines that he is working with the EU. It's great that Helgesen goes to Brussels and works with the EU, but the point here is that he's put us in a situation where we're just going to sit and wait before we do anything in Norway. We will wait until 2017, 2018 before something happens. It's great that the Council of States has talks with the EU, but as long as we don't do anything at home, those talks aren't worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2845	I have to say that when I have listened to this debate today, it seems that climate policy is something we started with last year, that there has not been anything that has happened before. The opposition is talking about us pushing responsibility in front of us, we're not taking action. It is especially important to give thunderspeaker all the time you run from your own responsibility. For what are the facts? Well, the fact is that in 2013 there was a gap of 8 million. tonnes to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. Now it's at 6.7 million. tonnes. It's going in the right direction. Emissions have decreased every year since 2010, but obviously not fast enough under the red-green either, because we still have a way to go. With regard to these 40 proposals to which reference is made from the Labour Party, I quite agree with many of them. That's very good in those suggestions, because a lot of what's there is already happening. We really agree quite, and then there is a huge impression in this debate that there is a huge disagreement in Norwegian climate policy. I very much disagree with that. I very much agree with the representative of Elvesuen, who is talking about the importance of the joint implementation agreement with the EU, and that perhaps some of the most important things have ever happened in Norwegian climate policy. I'm quite in doubt if there's a grip that would be taken if we still had a red-green government. It is a change of pace with the bourgeois government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that is the truth. What about measures — not one concrete measure. No, it's fine. kr more to the climate technology fund, the environmental technology scheme is now nearly half a billion dollars; for the first time we have a climate strategy in NTP, it is a historic investment on rail, we have measures in green shipping, pilot of biogas, CCS bet, we phase out fossil oil by the end of 2018, almost 3 billion. kr in climate and forest bets. Seriously, to say that these are not concrete measures because we now have to look at what the process in the EU is like and that the UN needs to learn more about how the world should change to achieve an even more ambitious goal – is not Norway a country that likes to base its climate policy on knowledge? Is it not reasonable to wait and see what comes out of the job that IPCC is now going to do? Yes, it is. It's not that we don't know that we're going up on targets, but it's about making sure that we set the targets in Norway and the instruments we're using, in a way that's in line with the arrangement that comes after Paris. That is how we need to rig the climate policy for the future if we are to get a little further away from this debate we have here today, where we are arguing about who is responsible, who is not involved, and who has action. I think we can all agree that all parties in this Chamber have climate action. All parties in this room are concerned with an ambitious climate policy. And then we stand here and make the impression that nothing is happening -- you know what, I don't actually think there's anything saying. We should be proud that Norway is a country that has taken responsibility and that takes it independently of governments. We're still on the right track. We implement measures, and we will continue to implement and deliver when we get the final agreement that results from what has happened in Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2856	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2859	The representative Tina Bru could basically add to the list his increased rewards for the big cities, rewards for bicycles, changes in depreciation rules for wind turbines and opportunities for green certificates in solar panels. There are a number — and there are big and small decisions that are going to drag us in the right direction. There's really no reason to say that now it's going to be a break pending the issues that come from the government. On the contrary – this spring, the Committee has many issues in which we are going to make decisions, we need a revised budget, and this is an opportunity. Each occasion shall be used to strengthen the climate agreement, not just with new measures, but with results and concrete reductions in emissions. The 2030 climate neutrality target must be firm, and it is primarily about it since we have not talked so much about today, the international commitment contained in the Paris agreement. We have to do a lot more, even out there, to achieve the overall goal that we've committed ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2866	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2870	Tina Bru gave a positive chord, and that was that we had to move on. I fully agree with that. The view must now be directed forward. Then, from the debate we have had in connection with the presentation, it is clear that there is a different climate policy majority in the United Kingdom from that of the government – in the majority of governments. I hope that, in this debate, the Storting actually chooses to take advantage of this spring, where we already have a number of proposals that are not promoted by the government but by the representatives of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2881	Before we go to the vote, the representative Rasmus Hansson will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2884	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on a Norwegian initiative for an international convention on economic transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2889	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2898	78 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, 8–12, 15, 16 and 18–23, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 24, 25, 27-29, 31-37 and 39-43, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 44, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 45-62, by Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 63 to 73, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 74 to 80, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 81 and 82, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 83-86, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party The President noted that the proposals No. 81 and 82 replaces the proposals. 7 and 17 in the vote, and that the proposals Nos. 83-86 replaces the proposals. 26, 29, 30 and 38 in the setting. Mr Ketil Kjenseth has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2930	The left draws the proposals No. 45 and 48, and we will support the proposals. 5 and 44.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2935	Let's go to voting. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 75, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate trials of reduced working time with full pay compensation, in particular in sectors where sick leave is high.’ The roll-call boards showed that 95 representatives voted against and four representatives voted in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2949	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2954	There is a new vote on proposal No. 75, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2965	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 74 and 80, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a multi-annual school effort against sexual harassment.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a national support scheme for the establishment of several technical centres by model from Flekkefjord in order to increase girls’ experience and interest in technology.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e2988	There is a vote on proposal No. 76, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to replace the cash support with a waiting allowance pending kindergarten.’ The Labour Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3006	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 78 and 79, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the working environment and other conditions of the country’s stripping clubs with a view to preventing women’s exploitation.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that regular national wide-ranging studies on violence and sexual assault are carried out by the government.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3029	There is a vote on proposal No. 77, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to work internationally to combat trafficking and to introduce guidelines against the purchase of sex for UN soldiers.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3047	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set a target and to work for 40 per cent of the leaders at all levels of the state to be women.’ The roll-call boards showed that 92 representatives voted against and 5 representatives voted in favour of the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3059	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3064	There is a new vote on proposal No. 46, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3076	There is a vote on proposal No. 57, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce rules on reporting obligations for those who are currently obliged to avert sexual mutilation.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3094	There is a vote on proposal No. 60, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a third gender category.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3112	There is a vote on proposal No. 50, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting that father be granted independent rights to parental penitentiaries, including the parental quota.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3130	There is a vote on proposal No. 51, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals to the Storting to liquidate the cash support.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3148	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47, 52, 54, 61 and 62, from the left. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government, as part of a school manager’s education, asks the government to ensure that principals, teachers and other employees at school are trained in preventing bullying and sexual harassment.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new action plan for equal opportunities in kindergarten and primary education, which also includes school leave/activity school.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out career guidance tests earlier in school in order to show job opportunities that break traditional gender roles’. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asking for women’s reproductive health and rights to be a priority task for Norway in international fora and in dialogue and cooperation with other countries.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway goes ahead of the international community in order to promote rights to sexual minorities.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3187	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 55, 56, 58 and 59, from the left. Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a plan to recruit more men for health care.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the protection of minority women’s discrimination and to better facilitate the participation of minority women in society in line with Norwegian women’. Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more use of full-time jobs in the healthcare sector.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asking the school content to strengthen sexual education and to ensure that education also takes care of gender and sexual orientation.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3220	There is a vote on proposal No. 49, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy to introduce one-third of the parental leave.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3238	There is a vote on proposal No. 53, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate how the establishment of a three-year vocational training course for career guidance staff can help more men apply for typical women’s jobs.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3256	There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new national action plan for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and osteoporosis.’ [[driving bone]] The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3274	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 69 and 71, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the "Inclusion in Sport" scheme in order to ensure the inclusion of children and young people with a migrant background, with particular emphasis on girls, and children and young people from families with low paying ability.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider extending the vaccine offer against the human papilloma virus to boys as well’. [[HPV]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3297	There is a vote on proposal No. 72, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to improve the prevention, treatment and follow-up of people with incontinence disease.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3316	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 65, 66 and 73, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of a new NOU on female health, in order to ensure health care up-to-date knowledge of women’s health and the challenges related to the prevention, diagnosis and proper treatment of women’s diseases.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the provision of midwifery services at maternity wards and in the municipalities so that the provision of birth and maternity services is in line with current professional guidelines and that the health care priority is given to mother and child.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the provision of treatment for people with severe eating disorders, in particular the provision of treatment and prevention aimed at children and young people.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3344	There is a vote on proposal No. 63, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to reduce the use of temporaryity in research and higher education institutions.’ The Labour Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3362	There is a vote on proposal No. 64, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a better gender balance between senior and intermediate managers in higher education’. The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3380	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to work to ensure that management groups in the companies in which the State holds a holding, directorates and states shall consist of at least 40 per cent of both sexes.» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3398	There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set targets and to work for both sexes to be represented by at least 40 per cent of the leaders at the top levels of the state.’ The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Left and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3416	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the pay gap between women and men can be reduced and eliminated by means of an equal pay pot.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3434	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24, 25, 32, 35, 37, 39, 42, 43, 83, 84 and 86, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish regional centres of excellence for gender equality organised under Bufdir, in line with the government’s proposal in Meldning. St. 44 Equality does not come of itself. [[2012-2013]] The regional communities of competence shall carry out enforcement and enforcement activities, research, inform, guide and motivate public and private enterprises for active gender equality. The three existing equality centres in Hamar, in Styria and Kristiansand, as well as Reform, need to be strengthened and become part of this structure, and 2 new centres will be set up to cover the whole country.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue and increase support for CORE – Core Environment for Gender Research in the 2017 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a national mentoring system for girls and boys starting training where the second sex is a large majority.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that equality work is integrated into the kindergarten, for example through its own equal opportunities managers in kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of building up professional environments with acute competence on violations, bullying, harassment and discrimination and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce compulsory training of principals, teachers and other school staff on how to prevent bullying and sexual harassment.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take action to increase the use of the reverse violence alarm, where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to address the need for transitional residences to victims of violence and to consider earmarking funds for municipalities to establish more’. Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase support for voluntary organisations in the gender equality field in proposals for the 2017 government budget.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: «The government is asking the Government to strengthen the allocation of the Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Ombudsman and name in proposals for the 2017 State Budget.» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the funding of organisations working against bullying and discrimination in government budget proposals for 2017.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3504	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28, 40, 41 and 85, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for free legal aid in cases where the Equality and Discrimination Committee recommends the use of free legal aid.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the research on violence in close relations.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen its knowledge of violence in close relations.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to restore the annual full-time pot for local trials and measures for full-time culture, which the government Stoltenberg II introduced over the Ministry of Labour’. The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3537	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to require health businesses to reduce the use of part-time jobs.» The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3555	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an unbalanced design and the introduction of gender equality scholarships to encourage girls and boys to choose courses that have a large majority of students of the other sex. This should also apply to studies in which women or men with a migrant background are strongly underrepresented. The government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3573	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a Norwegian public body on the human role and gender equality challenges’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3592	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for ambition, and works for at least 40 per cent of the companies in which the State holds a holding, to have a female director.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3610	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make systematic recruitment of female middle managers part of the State’. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3628	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a contact committee between the government and the equality organisations.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3646	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, 34 and 36, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a new municipal programme based on the model of ‘Like-styled municipalities’.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking for equality to become a more central theme of kindergarten teacher training.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a plan to recruit more men to kindergartens.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3674	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, 15, 18–20, 81 and 82, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include issues of sexual harassment in the Student Survey, in order to better identify the scope.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the commitment to government management training and to require that there should always be at least 40 per cent of women in all government management training programmes.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the ‘An issue of honour’ project, which has worked against honour-related violence, and to continue its work, based on the evaluation.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan against social control and honour-related violence.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own monitoring report on the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including the objective of increasing gender equality.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government is asking schools to work against sexual harassment and to propose that it be included as a requirement in the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the municipal crisis centre offer and to propose a new regulatory home in the crisis centre law so that the content and quality of municipal crisis centre offers can be better regulated.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3723	There is a vote on proposal No. 3–6, 9, 11 and 21–23, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks it to establish its own tripartite cooperation for increasing equality with social partners.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the design and introduction of credits for boys and girls applying for lines in secondary schools where, for example, 80 per cent or more of the opposite sex, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the design and introduction of credits for boys and girls applying for studies in which there is, for example, 80 per cent or more of the opposite sex and return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through the governance dialogue to encourage more women to participate in the academic recruitment committees, as well as to make employment open and inclusive.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for its own women’s wards in several prisons and to assess the creation of several own women’s prisons.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the country’s ownership principles of good ownership to gender equality objectives.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an addition to the State budget which provides a gender equality assessment of the State budget as a whole.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a timetable for the social partners in order to correct pay discrimination between women and men, in order to reduce pay differentials, and to provide the proposed tripartite programme for gender equality in the mandate to work on this.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to assess the design of requirements in all public enterprises for the reduction of the use of part-time positions.» The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3782	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an annual report on the State of the Great Britain in promoting equality and diversity in all sectors. The proportion of female top managers in the establishments for which the Ministry is responsible shall be included in the statement.’;» The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3813	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the State Archives are further developed with state archives as the City Chair, which are given professional responsibilities, budgetary responsibilities and staff responsibilities.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the State Archives can develop as a regional archive institution in an interaction with both users and cultural institutions, which can continue to provide guidance and supervision and receive larger shipments of private archives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3836	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain and strengthen the eight regional government archives as its own institutions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting in case of proposed changes to the organisation of the State Archives.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3889	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Climate and Environment on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-14.ana.ud821e3927	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
