ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e53	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on the treatment of Prop. 8 L for 2016-2017. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes legislative changes to facilitate the proper functioning of markets in the railway sector. The proposed amendments allow the implementation of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area in Norwegian law. Several of the new provisions implemented are on the premise of the railway reform. In addition, the Ministry proposes certain other clarifications and amendments to the railway law and to the railway survey law which have proved to be necessary through the practice of the laws. The Directive entered into force on 15 December 2012. While the Directive has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the Ministry considers it appropriate to implement the Directive in Norwegian law now. The Ministry’s justification is that it is central to have clear rules on the structure of the railway sector, the role distribution, access to railway-related services and the position of the market surveillance body in order to exploit several of the intended effects of the ongoing railway reform. The Ministry proposes the following amendments to the Railway Act which allow full implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law: new Section 5(a) on service facilities clarification of Section 8 on access to the national network new Section 11(b) on the supervisory authority as a market surveillance body In addition, the Ministry proposes certain other clarifications and amendments to the Railway Act. These include: changes in the provisions of Sections 3(a) and 3(c) – are harmonised with the Road Traffic Act provide for regulations on unit certification schemes in charge of maintenance of rolling stock, etc. in new Section 5(b) clarification of Section 10 on railway construction boundaries Chapter 4 of the Proposition reviews the proposals for amendments and clarifications in the Railway Act which allow full implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law. Chapter 5 sets out the legal provisions on drug use, while Chapter 6 sets out the legal provisions on the maintenance of rolling stock and a certification scheme for this purpose. Chapter 7 clarifies Section 10 of the Railway Act — Adjacent properties — and Chapter 8 sets out the provisions of the Act on the exchange of information related to confidentiality with national authorities. Chapter 9 sets out the proposed amendments to the Railway Survey Act. It is a unanimous committee that supports the comments and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e90	At these times, as it is obviously difficult to reach agreement in this house in other matters, we can at least see that here there is consensus in the committee. We have carefully addressed the proposed legislative changes, especially in Section 8. After an overall assessment, we agree with the proposed legislative changes. We regard it as quite straightforward cleanups, and all of us agree with the proposed legislative amendments, which the rapporteur has presented and clarified to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e95	It's probably not quite like that, because it went a little fast here. We do not agree with the recommendation to vote in favour, nor should we be in favour of the Committee's comments. The Secretariat has been made aware of this. We are clear that we do not support the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e114	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e123	Opinions have been shared within the Committee on the extent of this matter. I have come to understand that the representatives of the Workers' Party have wanted to use this matter for a rematch on the railway reform itself, while the majority have probably seen this more as a natural follow-up to a decision that has already been taken. However, this has led to the fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also had to bear in mind the main purpose of the reform: a distinction between governing and performing entities, a level playing field between private and public actors and the needs of customers – both private and business. I'm assuming that the minority itself will explain its vision. I note, however, that the broad majority behind the June decision is being reaffirmed. In Report. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight Track – rail sector reform, is laid the basis for the future organisation of the railway sector. The railway works are transformed into a State undertaking complying with the State Enterprise Act, the infrastructure undertaking Bane NOR SF and a directorate. The infrastructure undertaking shall be responsible for operational tasks such as the operation, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure, traffic management, etc. The Directorate will be responsible for strategic and governance tasks, i.e.: long-term infrastructure planning, booking of train offers, coordination of rail services and coordination of supply with other public transport services. Furthermore, the Directorate will have overall responsibility for railway safety and preparedness as part of a comprehensive transport system. The reform puts up more competition for rail passenger transport. The execution of several construction, operational and maintenance tasks shall be phased out in response to tenders. NSB-Eide Mantena, which operates maintenance services on rolling stock, will become an independent company directly under the Ministry of Transport. The property company ROM Eiendom AS will be transferred to the new infrastructure undertaking. Furthermore, rolling stock will be transferred from NSB AS to a newly created limited liability company under the Ministry of Transport. This train equipment will be used by the train companies which win competition for the traffic packages. With new structures and new work sharing between actors in the railway sector, it has been necessary to review the legislation. That's what we're dealing with today. Prop. 143 L for 2015–2016 is a follow-up to the Report. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight Track – Rail sector reform, adopted at Stortinget on 15 June 2015. These changes are necessary in a reformed sector in the interests of security, competition and national social security and preparedness. The Ministry’s assessments have also been presented where no legislative changes have been proposed, but where consideration for other laws is influenced by the reform. This applies in particular to the Planning and Building Act, the Administrative Act, the Publicity Act, the Target Act and the Archival Act. The case arose during the train strike, and this led to the Workers' Party asking for a longer period for feedback. In the meantime, the strike has been concluded and the government has received praise for the rapid response to the Riksmekler’s proposal on national standards for driver training and the proposal to form a professional organisation that can address important safety issues independently of railway operators. This has been supported by a joint comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where these parties join the appropriateness of a railway industry association, which can work in particular with common challenges to meet and preferably strengthen the good level of security we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e142	As Mr Igstad said, the changes in the law that are now under consideration are a follow-up to the so-called railway reform. I'm probably a little uncertain as to whether he completely has his words left when he said that there was a broad majority behind the railway reform. A fairly large minority in the Grand Duchy voted against the reform as it has now been adopted. We have a distinction in Norway today between infrastructure and train operator. There is no topic that should really be discussed. The new rail reform is a complete outlay of competition – not just by rail traffic. There is also a large-scale outsourcing of services currently produced by the Railway Agency. The reform provides for the outsourcing and privatisation of activities currently carried out by public actors. Railway reform has probably cost 500 million. direct costs prior to the entry into force of the reform at all. The reform, in the opinion of the minority, results in a powdering of responsibilities within the railway system, and we are now building an enormous administrative apparatus. New directorate, new state enterprise, and many new companies are established as a result of NSB wing shearing. At all: we build a large and expensive administrative apparatus. Our solution, instead of the so-called railway reform, is to do more of what has worked in recent years – build a more modern railway, buy more new trains, enable the NSB to provide even more and even better services to travellers. Between Lillestrom and Asker, trains now leave every ten minutes. On that route you almost do not encounter dissatisfied people at all – because it works. New double-track railway, and new trains – people are satisfied, and passengers are streaming to the NSB, resulting in the NSB delivering record results in both 2014 and 2015. It is incomprehensible that in such a situation, one should shake everything up with the root, cut the wings and have the railways on a large-scale competitive environment – an effort that no other European country has made. We have raised some of the issues that were also raised during the hearing that the government carried out on the bill. The Working Party and the Centre therefore propose the establishment of a national certification scheme for drivers. We are somewhat surprised that we do not endorse that proposal. We have interpreted and understood the government parties and the spokespersons of the supporting parties in connection with the previous driver strike so that there was agreement that a certification scheme should be introduced. The authorities must certify drivers – regardless of the company for which they are going to run. That's how we do it in the long haul. That's how we do it in other transport modes. It must be the authorities that certify train crew and, in particular, drivers. We have also proposed the introduction of provisions on train crew driving and rest periods. No feedback, no arguments against, none of the parties' speakers at all – neither in the vote nor at the time of the case-rapporteur – argued against the proposal. In our opinion, it should be a matter of course. We have also proposed the introduction of a common legislation on the pensions of employees of companies in the railway sector in order to clean up the current pension chaos, in particular in the NSB. Some of the individual changes could have been in isolation, but as the law changes have been put forward, the references to the railway reform, and as argued for the legislative changes in the pre-workers, we cannot support them. So we're going to vote against the changes in the law. Finally, I would like to address the three proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e163	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e169	A broad majority in the United Kingdom is behind the rail reform and its objectives, as described in the report. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight Track – Railway sector reform. The overall aim of the rail sector reform is to ensure an increasingly better supply to consumers through a clearer and more efficient management of the sector, combined with a greater diversity of providers of rail passenger services. The reform creates debate, and in this case too, the partideological divisions will be evident. Competitive outsourcing itself is not a goal for the Progress Party. It is the provision and diversity of services that are most important — and then for the benefit of users. Through this proposition, the government explains the structural changes it introduces in the context of the reform. This is in line with the objective of the bulk of the population of a competitive sector with clear roles: a clear dividing line between controlling and performing entities must be ensured. The State companies shall not be granted any competitive advantage. Customer needs shall be centred through a level playing field for all actors. Norwegian Railways shall be central to the solution of many of tomorrow's transport challenges. It must then mean that we must gradually adapt to the European market and their way of operating rail passenger services. We can state that the railway should continue to have strong state governance, and the government is actively addressing the uncertainties surrounding the changes that are now being proposed. The safety and predictability of employees and consumers shall be included in the driver’s seat through further reform. It has been very clear to the Council of State, and the bulk of the population will follow this up. This government has invested massively on the railways, and it produces results. An increase in the appropriations of close to 50 pst. has resulted in a reduction in the maintenance run on the railway for the first time in several decades. The overall effort on the railway with investment, planning, maintenance and reform appropriations will clearly ensure a better train offer for travellers. In the context of the reform process, a report from Safetec was presented on 17 October this year, which has examined different risk factors in the implementation of the reform. The company concludes that there are some risks, but none that cannot be closed by simple grips. The main conclusion supports the majority of this hall, precisely the fact that the offer can be improved if the reform is implemented correctly. It is quite clear that structural changes will open up some new questions and uncertainties, but there is no doubt that the questions should be answered carefully and any uncertainty should be removed. In the autumn we experienced a major strike on the railway related to just uncertainty. The Council of State has repeatedly demonstrated that training of drivers must be thorough and equal to that of all those required to operate train equipment on the Norwegian railway system. The trade unions and the NSB, together with the Railway Authority, are invited to clarify the already established regulation in order to clarify and correct any uncertainty. The government and the majority of the population are solution-oriented and will be on the supply side throughout this process. It is therefore very important that all the jobs involved are constructive in finding good solutions. Everyone's gonna be worth it. To the Workers' Party, which is concerned about the need to spend some money to start a new reform in order to save a lot in the future, I ask the question: What is the Workers' Party's solution for the transport sector in Norway? You're opposed to spending some more money to get the prize, to be able to build this country continuously, so I'm wondering, what's the recipe of the Workers' Party? It is called cutting red tape, but it has no solution for how to build more efficiently and operate more efficiently – and then with the customer in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e200	The Progress Party and the Right have the goal of having the customer and the human being in the center. That’s what’s important – solving people’s everyday problems and providing a better service to all travelers in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e203	A significant population growth is expected in Norway over the next ten years. This creates an increased need for transport, not least in and around the largest cities. We have a great untapped potential on the freight side, and with the shortening of travel time by rail between several of the larger cities, the railway will appear as an attractive travel option also on the longer distances. In the climate agreement, we have committed ourselves to taking the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas with collective, bicycle and gangways. Against this background, and for reasons of feasibility and rail being a powerful and land-efficient means of transport, this collective offer appears to be the key response to the transport challenges of the future. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported the need for new railway reform. We want to make the transport offer represents the railway, more important for more travellers and more owners of goods. When we're going to make it easier to make rail more important for more people, it's necessary that we take care of what works well today. Then I will mention the most important thing first: security. No one can doubt that the safety of Norwegian railways is very good. Regularity and punctuality have also moved in the right direction, with a punctuality achievement of more than 90 pst. in recent years. It is therefore important to state that security should not be compromised by the implementation of the reform. In this context, we are also pleased that an initiative has been taken by the Council of State to establish a national standard for the fulfilment of the driving regulation’s requirements for the training of drivers. This work shall also involve the involvement of a newly established professional organisation. We think it will be able to satisfy the safety requirements in a safe way. There is today much agreement that there has been an inappropriate and partly unclear division of tasks within the railway sector. There has been a mix of authority tasks and operational tasks. The railway works have been both an authority body and a supplier of the main input factor of the train companies: a well-functioning infrastructure. The establishment of a separate infrastructure undertaking to own, manage, operate, maintain and renew the railway infrastructure and to carry out traffic management and management of property, we believe that a good deal is being done to coordinate and pool the tasks not covered by the tasks of the Authority. The railway must remain a public responsibility; it has been important for the Christian People's Party. It has to be invested on the railway, as has been done in the last three years, where one is now beginning to resume the maintenance run on the railway. It is now about facilitating the attractiveness of the railway to more people, both for travellers and for those who are dependent on sending goods. Then there has been a pension issue in the implementation of the railway reform. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there will be a good dialogue with the trade unions on pensions and encourages the parties to reach agreement. Otherwise, I refer to the good review of the case by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e216	There is no doubt that there are political lines in this Chamber on this matter. This case is a consequence of the railway reform, which the Central Party did not support, and therefore we do not support the follow-up that exists today. The centre party was, and is, very skeptical of the fragmentation and privatisation that is now being carried out by the Norwegian railway system and fears a powdering of responsibilities and the construction of a large administrative apparatus due to all the units and companies currently being established. A number of new companies and a directorate are set up, and it is large and expensive. The centre party believes that there is no more bureaucracy and fragmentation that will provide a better railway – no, it is actually the will to build more railways and the willingness to invest money on the railways that will mean something for the future. We saw the turmoil in the railway sector in the strike that was earlier this year, and not least in safety. People are concerned that the training requirements for drivers should be relaxed, and we do not have to do that in any case. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that it is entirely appropriate to require a national certification scheme for drivers. It will help to calm the sector if you get it done in a good way. There is also no doubt that provision should be made for train crew driving and rest periods, following a similar solution to that of heavy road transport. There is also concern among train crew because there is no provision for driving and rest time today and that the reform can increase so long that it is irresponsible. You have to find a good solution to that. And then it would just be missing that you don't solve the pension challenges, so that the employees in the railway sector don't have that added concern, and that's why we're promoting the proposals we've made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e229	It is quite right that the opposition should use every opportunity to re-examine the railway reform. It is because it is a huge privatisation and competitive launching project disguised as an airlock, and the airlock is called ‘it gets so much better’. But the costs are great, and the results of what is happening in the railway sector, we won't see until many years, especially since it's not done in a reasonable and good way. The reorganisation that is taking place is serious, and we see that more clearly and more clearly. One gets a focus on shifting to red tape and privatisation in the NSB and the whole railway sector instead of investing in a better rail system, as we've seen positive developments in the last eight years. It's hard to turn around if you start looking in the wrong direction, and it's a huge experiment with our railway without it being properly evaluated. We already see that there are uncontrolled use of consultants in the railway sector. At the latest in the questionnaire here a couple of weeks ago, Ketil Solvik-Olsen stood on the pulpit and gave the impression that he did not have control over the use of consultants, and I would probably tip off that this is an experiment and an attempt at red tape in the state. Instead of hiring people in the Railway Agency, you hire consultants, and then it looks nice on the paper, but you don't get the competence 'in-house' at all. One has unexplained pension requirements, which I have also raised, and despite the fact that the left guaranteed that the pensions would be the same, we now know that they would not be as good if it were privatised, that is, that the NSB or Mantena or others are losing the competition, and in addition, the coverage of the pensions if that happens is not clear. It is clear that this does not concern any of the government parties or opposition parties, which lodge for Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who say that this is what we are working on legally. So to the big cut in maintenance proposed in the budget that is now available: I don't need to remind you that in the eight years of the red-green crash, the cuts in maintenance were significantly larger both from the Right and the Advance Party, and that had made us have a bigger lag, but we see what the government really wants in the budget they have now submitted, and that's cut in investment. In my opinion, there is also concern from the Christian People's Party that there are too low planning resources in the railway as it is, and that shows how the focus of the Council of State and Government is: there is more highway and less investment on what is most important on the railway side. At all events, there is a partying of the NSB with the participation of the aid lots. The claim has been that this is something you do to clarify the responsibility. I have been sitting on the Stortinget long enough to remember what the discussions between the Railway Agency and the NSB have been like when the trains have been standing, but at least the NSB was responsible for the routes and the train sets. But who is responsible for the future of trains? I encourage Ketil Solvik-Olsen to respond to that. Is it the owner of the train set, is it the maintenance of the train set, which is another bunch, that operates the train sets, or is it the directorate that has established the routes and, if necessary, had too little slack on the routes? In addition, by having a common pool of back-up trains, a loss of economies of scale is suffered in the event of fragmentation. Who is responsible if a train set breaks? Are there operators who have not paid for enough extra train sets, or is there anyone else? All these questions are unanswered. Clarification of liability, Ketil Solvik-Olsen calls it. I call it touch and ambiguity. Some of the things that are central to the matter, which means that we support the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, are about driving and rest periods. There are three things operators who win tenders can save money on, and there are pay and working conditions – I have already mentioned pensions – competence has been a central strike moment before, it's clean-up, and it's staffing, but I want to spend 19 seconds talking about working conditions. Driving and rest is a central working condition. Partly this is of course about the wishes and needs of those who work there, but partly it is also about security. There is a reason why, in the other transport sector, we have driving and rest arrangements centrally and not through collective agreements. It is incomprehensible to me that it is not clarified in this reform that we agree to have centrally defined driving and rest periods instead of making it a competition issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e242	The railway effort has been one of the major efforts of today's government. When one hears the debate so far, one would think it was the opposite, but I remember that the railway budget is about 7 billion. kr higher now than when we took over. When the SV and the Workers' Party give the impression that they forget to invest in infrastructure, they seem to have forgotten that they themselves have run this country on a much lower budget, with much less investment. I think we should deal with the facts in one case. Although one may have different political assessments of how the organisation works best, it is good to remember that during eight red-green years, the decay of the railways increased every year. Under today’s majority – a civil majority – the maturity has been reduced. Almost 1 billion. kr reduced a lag in 2016. There's a pretty big difference in relation to the previous one, when one increased by 1 billion. kr. There's one of the main reasons why trains are now more on the way, that passengers get from the platform to work instead of standing on the platform and wondering what's going on. I think many of us remember quite many years ago when the former Ministers for Transport stood and was cross-examined on TV because the railway had not been maintained and things had broken. Now we can replace the parts before they break up, and that's one of the most important things we're doing, and one of the most important things we're going to do, to make people trust the railroad. Instead of trying to create the impression that the railway is now in decline and everything is wrong, one should rather acknowledge that we have actually turned the reel around on this: it has never been invested more than in these three years, it has never been maintained more. I know it hurts the SV and the Workers' Party to admit, but that's still the facts. Then we've also done something that's been wanted for a long time. During the previous government an internal investigation work was started in which all the major actors in the Norwegian railway were involved and participated with recordings, and everyone agreed that the way the organisation of the railway was, it should not be. It is a little strange that the Workers' Party is applying back to what everyone in the industry thought was at least not the good solution. That's exactly what we're dealing with. This proposition is an example of that. When we see that we need to strengthen the role of supervisory authorities, we suggest that. When we have to make sure that the various public actors in the railway sector are given clearer authority to do what they have to do, we propose it. This proposition solves a lot of challenges, which I hardly record being mentioned in the posts because one is so busy talking down the railway bet, but on the wrong basis. So it's not like it's building a new, big administration unit. All of those we're talking about here are already working in different parts of the railway sector. But what has been the problem is that the responsibility has been dispersed. Responsibilities for property and infrastructure have been distributed over several sites. We'll collect it in one place. What the reform is about is bringing together responsibilities so that those who are dealing with property do not sit a little bit in the railway station and a little bit in the NSB, but they are in one unit. There will be no more people of it, but the people responsible now sit in the same room, with the same budget – the same investment perspectives – and see expenditure and income in one account, instead of in split accounts. Where we see that there's going to be a difference in the crew, they're in the NSB, because they see that they can need fewer middle managers. There's none of these areas where one says that one has to go out and hire a bunch of new middle managers, but in several places we now see the potential for efficiency. That's why it costs some money now, because it costs money to reorganize – it does everywhere – just as it costs money to invest in new manufacturing facilities in industry, but in the long run, when things are up and going, you see that more tasks can be solved by fewer people. That means that we free resources for other things. For example, we will then release resources to have more trains on the rails, which provide a better offer to travellers, instead of fewer trains on the rails, but more people who sit and manage them. That gain will far, far outweigh the cost of making things better. So it's a little strange to hear that it's creating the impression that everything is now going to be privatized. We have to own the rails, we have to own the sleepers, we have to own the switches, we have to own the platforms, we have to own the train seats, the stations - everything will still be state owned. SV is looking for, among others. that we have to have a common train pool, because that is simply the distribution that the NSB has today. Yes, today we actually have two train pools – one belonging to the NSB and one belonging to the Fly train. We're saying we're going to have all of this in one place, instead of in two places. That's the opposite of what the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says. We gather responsibility here as well. Then it becomes a bit strange to have a debate about a reform where those who argue against the reform have not got its contents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e267	In his post, the Minister of Transport actually said that everyone we're talking about is working on the railway today. My question is quite simply: can the Minister for Transport promise that, as a result of the rail reform, there will be no more staff in administrative posts in the railway sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e272	Once the reform has been implemented, there will be no more people involved in paper relocation in administrative posts. But because there's going to be more investment on the railway ahead, there'll be more people working on the railway in ten years' time than it does today. At least it's my ambition, because the railway has to have an even more central role in traffic management – in helping commuters get in and out of cities to get to work, that more goods should go on rails instead of on asphalt. Then one will need more people operating trains, fixing trains, servicing customers, providing strategic planning, etc. One of the challenges we've had for Norwegian railway today is that we've been more concerned about finding out what went wrong ten years ago, instead of having people sitting and thinking about where the railway is going to be in 20 years. And that's why we set up a directorate, to look more at the strategic work, so we have a railway that's all the way forward instead of a railway where people wonder why things stop, things we thought should work. Therefore, the more people who work there, but not as a result of the side of the reform that the Myrli representative addresses, will be more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e279	Let's hope it's going to work more in the railroad for the years to come, but it should be conductors, drivers, railway agents, railway workers, people in traffic. I understand that the Minister for Transport cannot guarantee that there will not be fewer administrative staff, and the reason for this is obvious – a huge administrative apparatus is being built up. The next question is directly related to the setting we are currently dealing with, and the question of national certification scheme for drivers. I see it as signaling to the government and its spokespersons on the driver's strike that they agreed to create such a national certification scheme, that is to say, that there are state authorities that approve - certify - drivers, regardless of the company for which they are going to work. My question is simply: why is the Minister for Transport opposed to the introduction of a national certification system for drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e288	The entire debate on competence requirements and certification and the kind of things we have had many times, and we are now working in line with the agreement we have with the parties who were in strike, to find solutions to this. I trust we'll do that. We feel that we have a good dialogue with those actors. However, let me go back to some of the things that the representative Myrli makes a sense of, that it's a huge administrative apparatus. I remember that ROM Property exists today. We transfer the activity from the NSB to the railway undertaking. It doesn't mean they're becoming more people, it's not going to be new units, it's a gathering of responsibilities. That means you can have fewer people to do the same job. It's a little strange if the representative Myrli thinks that there's almost no administrative work in the railway today, and that things are created. By and large, we move units that, at our discretion, are organized and placed a little bit wrong, and collect them in a better place. That doesn't mean they're re-emerging, it's just being done a better way. So we see that the NSB says that this means that they can have far fewer administrative staff, and that's a gain, not a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e295	I get into this with reality descriptions and a train pool afterwards – for a good discussion – but I have one question, which I raised in my post, and which I think is a leaping point, and that is the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: «The Government is asked to propose the introduction of provisions for train crew driving and rest periods.» As far as I have been able to clean up, this is currently regulated by collective bargaining agreement, while in the future there will be the Working Environment Act and the minimum rules there that govern. One thing is what this has to say about working time and the kind of thing, about making working time a competitive environment, but that is a reason why the Council of State is also subject to driving and rest rules in the transport sector – statutory or regulatory. Can the Council of State tell me why he does not wish to have a code of rules on driving and rest periods in the railway sector, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV want?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e307	The basis for comparison is not entirely relevant, I believe, because if a truck driver can drive where you want to, when you want to. And then you have to have a strict code, because the flexibility of the driver is very great. In the railway, the flexibility of the driver is very small, because he is running according to a given timetable, where the state has determined when one is allowed to drive, how far one gets to drive, where the train is to start and where the train is to stop. And it is actually the way in today's legislation that Section 3 of the Railway Act says that a train cannot be driven if one is tired, and the Working Environment Act says that the employer undertakes to organise the working day so that the safety concerns are taken care of. So you're comparing a very flexible system, where the driver himself has great authority to determine when and where he's running, to another system that's rigid and set up, and that makes it take care of it that way. But as part of the job we're doing, this is something we're discussing with the Locomotive Association and other actors. So it's not that we don't look at it, it's not that we don't want it. We need to ensure that this is best taken care of. But it may not be a necessary new law, because there are many homes today that you can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e314	I don't necessarily say "new law". I say that a new legislation needs to be in place, and that is why I think it would have been sensible to vote in favour of and support that proposal. We have no guarantee that the Council of State will come up with any legislation on this unless the Storting decides that the Council of State should do so, because he uses a wide range of powers. I believe that the Council of State's description of the reality of timetables and how to control the time of drivers testifies to a lack of transparency in the way the railway works. It is the way to set up routes, and then there are no restrictions on the possibility of going from one trainset to another trainset and running another trainset on another route, because there is currently no lead from the new directorate to tie drivers to one route. In particular, in the area of local transport in the east, there will be a great deal of flexibility for drivers to go from one place to another, and that type of general provision is a reason why one does not have as absolute in road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e321	The next replicator is – no, State Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen will be allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e327	Thank you, President – it's nice if I get an answer too! Then I just have to remind you that we have not removed a single permit or rule when it comes to this. And it's a little weird that you don't need to do anything with this earlier if it's that this is very critical now. Because there is legislation in the Working Environment Act today, there is legislation in the Railway Act, and it seemed obvious that the Working Party and SV were sufficiently early, while it is now almost horrific and cruel that it is not different.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e333	As I mentioned in my previous answer, this is part of what we are working on. Security is not something we're going to gamble with, security is not something we're going to negotiate, whether it's purely state-owned, purely private or a hybrid economy that's at the root of it. That is why we should work well with the trade union movement and ensure that this is done. But it is not free today. The train companies have a law they have to follow to ensure that those who drive the trains are rested and can do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e336	I find it regrettable that you do not want to look at driving and rest periods for train crew, because it is a matter they are very concerned about, those who are on trains and working today. Let's imagine a driver driving freight trains from Alnabru to Bodø, or from Alnabru to Bergen or to Stavanger. There are long distances, and there must be security for the driver and the staff on the train to rest during that time and not least to have a place to rest during the journey. How will the Minister of Transport ensure that those who are drivers, or those who are on a train, get the rest they need, and that they actually have a place to rest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e341	First of all, some of these questions I get now concern things that are unchanged from when whoever asks was in charge of the country. Therefore, I wonder why this is suddenly a problem today, while one did not see it as a problem before. That's the one. The second is: I just said in my previous post that one of the things we work with the trade unions about is to look at driving and rest periods. So when the premise in the question I'm getting now is that we're not doing it, the premise is simply wrong, and I informed you in the previous answer. That's what I think is going on in a lot of this debate. So now we've heard claims that the maintenance kit run is going up. That's wrong. It went up under the previous government, it goes down under ours. We're told that the investment level is falling. It is wrong; the level of investment is rising. We have heard that we split up the train pools. No, we'll gather them in one place. We collect responsibility for property, and we don't split them up. We're not creating new organisational units that don't already exist, but we're moving them from under the NSB umbrella to right under the Department of Transportation umbrella. So it means less privatisation, it means more direct government control than before. Now they are under a state AS, in the future they will be under a department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e354	I want to deal with the huge uncertainty that now exists among railway employees – in particular employees in the NSB and in the NSB as a company, but also among management and governing bodies – about what happens to the pension situation in the future, especially in the NSB, but in the industry as such. In response to a written question, the Minister for Transport recently said that a process has been initiated against ESA in order to clarify the legal space for action. There was an answer to a question about the pension conditions in the NSB and what the Minister for Transport is doing to sort it out. My question is, When was the enquiry addressed to ESA? Has there been a meeting activity between the Norwegian authorities and ESA? And at all: how is it now working towards ESA to answer this, and when does the Minister of Transport realize that the matter is resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e361	This is an important theme for us. We're going to make sure that the railway feels like a good place to work. We want it to be security for people, both related to the security they need in everyday life when they do their job, and related to the framework within which they work. Just a week ago, this was also the topic of Storting's Question Time, and in that answer, I said the same thing that I'm going to say now, that for us it's important to have a good and efficient railway. We're going to treat those who work there in a good and respectful way. We have been clear that we should not remove accrued-to-date pension rights in connection with this reform. I have said that many times, I have been and said it when the LAG has met, and when the LAG has met. This is not a reform where we're going to take away earned rights. This is a reform where we're going to give passengers a better travel offer, make sure to organise the railway more efficiently, so that we can have fewer people who manage and more who perform services. I understand that the Workers' Party does not believe anything about it, but all the experience from the years the Workers' Party crashed indicates that their solution was not better. Now we see the results. [[President clubs]] Things get better on the railway, more trips
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e368	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e375	I can keep going where we left off. It is amazing that the Minister for Transport was not at all concerned with what I was asking: what is being done to ESA to clarify the very serious pension challenges facing the NSB? There are only months left before competition on the Norwegian network, and there is a great deal of uncertainty in the NSB about how the company should now address itself before resolving the issue of pension conditions. The Minister of Transport did not at all respond to what has been done to ESA, what meetings and contacts have taken place, and when we can expect that there has been clarity on the issue. Perhaps many are not aware of it, but it is really a big anniversary today, for 1 December 1996, the old management company Norway’s State Railways was reorganised to the NSB and the Railway Agency. It's 20 years a day today, and really we should have balls and showers to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Railway Agency. It was right to do the reorganisation that took place 20 years ago, and it is not right that the Minister of Transport claims that the Workers' Party is against all reorganisations. The reorganisation — and other changes and reorganisations — refutes the claim of the Minister of Transport, but we are going to do the right reorganisations. If there's something we should have learned in these 20 years, it's that we don't need even more companies and entities within the railway family. We should rather collect more, rather than split up even more. So now it's the opposite -- lots of units, lots of companies, responsibility powdering and a big administrative apparatus. The Stordalen from the Progress Party said that the Workers' Party has no solutions. It's very stupid to finish writing their posts and comment on other parties' speakers before one has heard what the other speakers are saying. I had a lot of concrete suggestions about what is the Railway Policy of the Workers' Party: building more railways, buying more trains, enabling the NSB to become an even better transport company. And then we can add: collect ownership of stations in one place, keep the Fly train in public ownership instead of opening up for sale, as the government has done. There are at all many good proposals, but they point in a completely different direction than the great majority have unfortunately now adopted. My last point is to the Grave. He talks about good dialogue with the trade unions. This is not seen in the trade unions. There's a lot of frustration about what's going on right now. I recommend that Gruvan meet with trustees in different trade unions, whether what is happening to pension conditions or other issues, because there is a great deal of frustration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e389	Once again, state councils run with what's his favorite exercise, that's strawman argumentation. He makes it look like I'm doing black paint on the development of the railway. On the contrary, I didn't, I said in my post that in the last eight years we have had a positive development in the railway sector. He said that it has built up a maintenance seat under the red-green, and stated that it was completely different with the Advance Party. In fact, with the alternative budgets of the Right Party and the Advance Party, the maintenance system would be larger in the eight years that we managed. He made it like that investment and maintenance went up, but the fact is that in the budget that has been submitted, they go down in proportion to the level that we have this year. He stated that a number of internal investigations were carried out that recommended changes. Yeah, that's right, but the fact is that the NSB is e.g. Never suggested the desk reform to Ketil Solvik-Olsen, with which he and the government chose to go further. It is also very clear that he refuses to answer my simple question about who is responsible when the trains are standing. Are those who are in charge of maintenance, which is one company, the owners of the train sets, which is one company, the operators of the train sets, which is one company, or is it the directorate, who has set up the routes? He also raises the question about why we did not do anything about driving and rest times and regulated this. We may be criticized for that, but he must be so honest as to admit that there is less need for it in a situation where it is the state's own company that runs and operates after a state arrangement, rather than a situation where there is competition. Because when there is competition in such a way that the majority has opted for competition – in reality only competition in passenger traffic that can compete on manning, wage and pension conditions and on clean-up – when it is only the things that you can compete with, you can see that it must be precisely in these areas that you have the opportunity to save on costs. And then, of course, what's really about driving and rest time is one of the things you're risking that can become a competitive factor. So the point is that the more competition one has, the greater the need to ensure a level playing field through regulation. It's like ABC from the School of Commerce, and Ketil Solvik-Olsen should know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e397	The last thing – and I would like to have an answer from the Council of State – is: Why is it that he does not now clearly want to say from that he wants driving and rest arrangements and will come back with a regulation to ensure that this is not a matter on which it is competing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e400	First of all, it's good to be involved in a train. It hasn't always been like this from all of the parties. There is no doubt that what is now done is a huge red tape. You split up instead of coordinating, even if you try to say something else. Nor is there any doubt that, although there may not be many more people, there is an enormous increase in the use of consultants. I think it is also remarkable that you do not use the opportunity to be clear about your pension. I record that the government in the media has tried to reassure all employees, but when you have the opportunity in this room today to tell me what you really mean, you don't use that opportunity. I am thinking of the proposal contained in the vote by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, which is now also supported by SV, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then that doubt had been put aside. But I record that you do not want to, and then you still have reason to be concerned. There are two aspects to this: one is the pension rights as such, and the other is whether you really want equal competition. Because if you don't sort out the pension situation, you actually go out with open eyes and sideline the NSB and so far don't be able to compete on equal terms. So to this with the certification scheme for the drivers: yeah, it's not long since that strike was over. Also then the council said that had come to him earlier, they should have cleaned it up. Yes, today he has had the opportunity to get people on the Stortingen to join in and clear up on that matter, by voting for the proposal that is in the position of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party regarding the certification system for the drivers. You do not choose to do that either, and then you understand that there is a great deal of doubt among the trade unions. So to the last one, the driving and rest time. In yesterday's Question Time, we had a case that went to aviation safety, and I'm very uncertain about what kind of government we have, when you also put safety into play when it comes to trains. Yesterday we had an example of this being done in aviation, and today you do it on the train side, because you will not be able to make clear rules on driving and rest time. Notice that. The state councils can stand here and try to say that they don't want to privatize, but we've just read in the draft of the Progress Party that that's exactly what they want. They will sell the NSB, and they will have free competition on the network. They don't just want to put off competition, they want free competition, and why should we be sure about it when we see that they have already proposed to sell the Flytrain? No, there's no need to feel safe. It is not nice that trade unions are concerned at these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e415	It is not easy to hold a debate when someone believes that outsourcing is the same as privatisation. Let me first tell the representative Juvik that privatisation is when the state or the public discharges all responsibility. That's not what we're talking about today. It's actually about the fact that the state still has a ownership, it's the state that lays the framework conditions, and that's the outsourcing and not privatisation. Competitive outsourcing is healthy for diversity. It could be tempting to ask Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who believes it is so bad that one should outsource this service: is it so that the state should then perhaps have all the buses, all the public transport, and also drive all the buses, that they should be state employees all of them? Should all those who drive a taxi be State employees, should they be employed in one company because it is much better? At least that kind of monopoly won't have any more of this government. So there was criticism from Myrli, who says that here you're wondering what we really want, that the Workers' Party is going to bet on the railroad and that we think we're down priorities. Then I would like to remind you that the maturity increased at a solid pace – for Myrli said to increase the pace. Yes, one pace was able to increase in the Workers' Party government: the maturity increased at a staggering rate. It has now been reversed by the fact that the maturity has been restored – so you have increased maintenance on the railway, you have increased effort, and you buy even considerably more trainsets than the Workers' Party provided, approx. one trainset per month. That's what I'm going to say. I'm going to bet on the railway. For me, there will be a lot of rhetoric and little politics and solutions. The representative Myrli says to ‘set up the NSB’, but what do you mean ‘set up’ when you continue to do the same thing as before? What is the solution? You can't just stand here and criticize without having any solution on your own. I miss that from the opposition. It will be very easy to talk about privatisation when we talk about competitive outsourcing. I miss more clarity: where is the opposition? Do you want to keep doing the same thing? Should the reform be reversed? Reverse purchase of trainsets? Are you now going to reverse giving more funds for maintenance? Should you reverse and return to a lower rate of investment? I remember there were demonstrations almost every month. I was a train commuter to Oslo myself. I myself was the one who experienced not getting information, felt that it was not being put on the railway, felt that trains were not going, felt that trains were not being bought, because there was material shortage, staff shortage. At least there's more trains now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e428	To the 20th anniversary of the Railway Agency: Yes, it is part of a reform that the Workers' Party would say today was to split up the railway, but as they now think is fantastic, and that it is almost sad that the Railway Agency is now to become a railway undertaking instead. What the Workers' Party used to think was good, they're all of a sudden now against it. Then it's more about rhetoric and polemics than actually discussing the realities of the railway. Because what I've heard today is a working party that says they want more investment, more maintenance, more trains, more departures and they want to collect the property one place. That's probably the best argument I've heard to vote civilly at the 2017 elections. That's exactly what you got with the four budgets that the bourgeois majority has made – and that's the very opposite of what we saw under the previous government, when you actually increased the lag, not maintained, when you couldn't collect the property. So one had eight years to make these structural changes, which didn't have to be exactly like the ones we've done, but there was no sign of trying to gather these responsibilities. What we're doing is not about breaking up. I hear that it's argued like that, and then I expect that it's also going to be part of the election campaign. It's going to create a wrong picture of what's happening, but show me the element that's actually split up. We're taking the ticket element that's in the NSB today, and we're transferring it, but still in one organization, and we're saying that their tasks are not just going to be the ticket system for the NSB, but the ticket system for the public sector in Norway. It's about bringing together responsibilities that are really fragmented between all the public societies today, and making sure that we get one national approach to it. That's what I thought was actually good, but here's one so busy that this must only apply to the NSB, and that it should be in the NSB's organization, and then it becomes something negative. Mantena shall be able to provide services to all those required to maintain their trains. Some of what we've discussed a lot here in Norway is the Swiss model. The Swiss model has a good strategic unit, a directorate, and that's what we're creating. This is not a rail reform à la Sweden, social democratically overthrown, or à la England, or à la Germany for that matter. Germany has much more competitive outsourcing than what we have in Norway, but it has suddenly become a model for Jonas Gahr Støre. This is the Norwegian model, where we're going to have strategic visions, we're going to have state control and state ownership, but we're also going to make sure that those who are best able to deliver services are allowed to do so. And then we're going to take care of those who work in the sector. All the questions that have come up have been answered in the past: we're working with ESA to get an answer to this, and it's coming as soon as possible, but I don't control ESA. Train at stop: same responsibilities in the future as today. One doesn't have to make it harder. Then one should rather sit down and read the reform papers we have presented before one says that things don't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e447	When I hear the debate and the praise of today's situation for the railway versus the new thing we were to get, I don't get it quite to vote with the everyday life I myself sit in every day. Myrli asks who gets the responsibility when the train is standing. Yes, who is responsible today when the train is standing? When there are signal faults either on Stabeck or on Hövik, on Oppegård or on Ski, who is responsible? When the train comes with half a train set in the rush hour, who's in charge? The new system defines responsibility. It states that the infrastructure undertaking shall be responsible for operational tasks such as the operation, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure. This means that when the rail does not keep track, or there is a signal error in the yard, it is clear who is responsible. They are responsible for the construction of infrastructure – of course – and traffic management. The carrier is given a clear responsibility to ensure that there is transport on open rails. It is the transporters who have to take responsibility for it. That means that I as a customer, if the rail does not work or the current is not there, know that I am not going to complain to the NSB or the one that had to be the operator. It is actually the infrastructure company that is responsible. That's what this reform is cleaning up. From 1996 there were some properties owned by ROM Property, other properties owned by the Railway Agency. The place where the rail goes and the place where the parking space is, it's different who owns it. Now there's a review that says that from the rail and out is the same law that applies, and that's the same law. So that's the second question, about competition. Yes, what can you compete for? The government's taking out $600 million. kr in the year of the NSB. In 2015, the company NSB had an operating profit of EUR 1,2 billion. kr. Then you can say it's nice, but in the case of a company that has the main task of transporting people – and I'm one of them – you would like to know that the price you pay is right. In the Router system we have several monopolies; we have the trams, the T-Bahn and the train. But on the bus side we can be sure that there is the price right, because there it is put in a competition. Finally, I would like to say that the Urban Railway in Bergen is a public responsibility, but it is run by the French company Keolis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e460	All countries that have succeeded on their railways have not opted for fragmentation of the railways. What they have instead prioritised is more coordination and spending money on the railways. The railway reform involves a complex system with a high risk of greater negative impacts than the positive ones, and the construction of a huge administrative apparatus with a large consulting capacity – 500 million. kr per current date. This money could have been used for the maintenance or purchase of a trainset with great advantage. I think it is amazing that no national certification system will be put in place for the drivers. I think it is amazing not to introduce provisions on train crew driving and rest. I think it is amazing that the government will not introduce a common legislation on pensions for employees in companies in the railway sector – if you do not want to use skills, wages and pensions for a competitive advantage for those who are going to compete in the tendering sections. It will at least weaken security, and at least it cannot be recognized by the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e469	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e475	I'm just going to answer briefly to the challenge of the Progress Party. I believe that having a public monopoly on e.g. has not worked badly. T-Bahn and tram in Oslo. I don't think – and I'm sure the representative Igstad, if he wants to, can sign on – that the pay and working conditions of people working in the bus industry, after being offered, are not as good as what they used to be in the Municipal Association. That's a consequence of the exact same thing that we'll see within the railway. And wasn't that the point, then? Was it not a bit of a point that someone could make money on just giving worse pension conditions than what we have in public now, so that they can be collected in a different way instead? Finally, the council always says when it comes to tolls, that everyone knows that it would have been different if the Progress Party had got what they wanted. It would have been fun if he started to say it about the railway operation as well. We know that more than half comes from the opposition. It would have been fun if he said: It would have been different if the Progress Party had got it as they wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e484	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e490	That's really a lot strange you should hear. So now it's a problem that NSB is going so well that it's going to have a huge profit. There is a sign that something very good is being done in Norwegian railway policy, that the NSB as a company is doing so well. It is all the more incomprehensible that the company should be broken and cut. Istad said that we praise the current organisation – no one has done so. There are obviously things that should change within the railway, but then we have to do what works, and that gives a better railway. I City said he had problems; he's commuting on the east fold course, I'm going from there. Yes, it's because we have an old railway between Oslo and Ski! Between Lillestrom and Asker it works almost squeaky-free, because there is the new, modern, double-track railway. Between Oslo and Ski it is old railway. That's why we're building Follobanen, to get a new, modern railway there too – and that's how we have to keep going. That's the solution elsewhere. The solution is not to paint the railway wagons in a different colour. We have to build more new railways and buy more new wagons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e499	I don't have any problems with the NSB going with profits in itself, and that it's a company that runs well. What I have problems with is when you present it as if the only element you can compete with is pension schemes and wages in the companies – that they are the employees who have to bear the costs of competition. A company with an operating surplus of 1,2 billion. kr a year, has a buffer to run on, and it is not necessary for employees to suffer, even if there is competition. When you talk about pension schemes: No, there was no pension scheme for the bus drivers when we started with the tenders. The pension scheme for bus drivers came in as part of the bidding round as one saw that the bus drivers did not have a satisfactory pension scheme. It was introduced into the Ruter system as we got competition, and it was also one of the elements of the negotiation. So it came later. The NSB, or the railway, is better than its reputation. It's not stopping as often as you can get the impression. The faults can occur just as much west of Oslo as they do on Eastfold, but of course we should be glad that we've got new tracks and that we're getting more tracks. It's capacity that's the main problem on the Eastfold track, where we're running in line. The local train from Oslo to Ski goes 12 minutes before the local train to Moss. When we get to Kolbotn, we've taken them back. From Kolbotn to Ski we drive on local trains until we finally get to Ski and can drive for 160 km/h. Capacity is a problem. But to say that a tendering process must necessarily lead to poor working conditions for employees, I do not buy one. It's not like that. We have rules in this society that will apply, and it says so far in Prop. 143 L for 2015–2016, where the Councils of State inter alia: states that the aim is to achieve a level playing field between foreign and, where appropriate, domestic companies, and that is part of the process. It's a question of whether we have enough companies that want to submit tenders – we have pre-qualified someone – but bidding rounds are the thing. We've been using it in the bus sector for many years. No one complains about whether the bus is owned by Schaus Buss or by Nettbuss, which is the NSB company, or by Unibuss, which is owned by the Municipality of Oslo, but what we know is that the price we pay is the market price you can get. This is not known in the case of public monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e537	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to three minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e546	I would like to thank the Committee for a good job and good cooperation on a fundamental, important matter. I'll start with Prop. 160 L for 2015-2016 – it is largely an overall committee and mainly an agreement on it. These are amendments to the Law of 21 June 1963, the Road Law, with the aim of providing for an outsourced roadside supervision to oversee both the State Road Service and the state development company Nye Veier. Both the State Road Service and New Roads shall ensure the safety of the road network for which they are responsible. Roadside surveillance shall monitor and ensure that the safety of transport on the public road network is in line with the zero vision and national objectives. There are in particular two reasons to release road safety. Firstly, it is entirely wrong that the body responsible for checking the quality of the road network should be subject to the same authority as it is to monitor. It is illogical, and it is unfortunate when an actor, who is first responsible for building and operating roads, is also responsible for ensuring that the quality of construction and maintenance is good enough. It is important that this is now separated, and that the Road Safety Authority is released 100 pst. from the State Road Administration. It is a good old Norwegian saying that the goat should not look after the oat bag. By implementing this distinction between the performer and the controlling actor, it is precisely avoided that the goat fits on the oat sack. Secondly, it is important to distinguish between the State Road Administration and the Road Authority now that we have established a new state road company. After all, roadside surveillance must be relaxed in relation to both these two actors and ensure equal treatment. Released roadside supervision is an important victory for the Progress Party and it is a fulfilment of the Government Declaration. This will put a sharper spotlight on road quality. Poor road quality and poor maintenance are one of the greatest road safety challenges we have. Therefore, freed roadside supervision is an important breakthrough in strengthening road safety work. Hopefully, the new Road Safety Authority will also increase the attention of the State Road Service to road quality. It will make roads better and safer for all road users. Exclusion of road safety is probably an example of the fact that the Progress Party and the government are rethinking road policy, and we want to spread power in the sector. There's too much power in the state road system. The new Road Safety Authority and the Road Company will contribute to a new dynamic in the sector. A little about Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with the matter of granting limited powers to the new state development company Nye Veger. In this context, changes in both the Planning and Building Act and the Road Act are important. New roads, for example, must be: be able to announce the start of planned work, develop and promote proposals for a planning programme, a local authority plan and a regulatory plan. In addition, it is important that New Roads should be able to challenge standards, procedures, manuals and working methods to reduce red tape and costs both during planning and during the construction period. With the steps that are now being taken with the state road company and the authority that New Veger is now being given, Norwegian taxpayers and drivers will get more money. Thanks to the fact that we now have a Right Party government with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, we are taking action. We make sure to clean up the bureaucracy. We're reducing the planning time. We cut the cost of road construction. This is an important step that will be taken in setting up New Roads. Since the company was established on 1 January 2016, we already see very positive results by speeding up large national road projects for many years and building significantly cheaper. New roads are mandated to expand, operate and maintain a large motorway network of more than 500 km. It will stop building piece by piece and division, New Roads will provide more holistic, more rational and coherent development, and not least long-term and predictable funding. But in order to make it possible, it is important to give the road company limited authority. That's what we're doing in connection with Prop. 159 L. This is a historical matter and a historic day. The size allows New Veier to help revolutionise Norwegian road construction, contribute to new ideas, more flexibility and increased competition in relation to the State Road Administration, so that Norwegian people and Norwegian drivers can get more money from tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e571	I take the word to link some notes to Prop. 159 L for 2015–2016, which deals with changes to the Law on Planning and Building and Roads. There are obvious challenges and weaknesses by organising tasks of authority in such a way that they have been added to a limited liability company. In particular, the media’s last week’s papers on entrepreneurship companies that are under investigation for corruption and the business ethics of New Veier AS in this area, show this. In response to the Stortinget, the Council of State has shown that he believes that there are formal constraints that make him the Council of State not to interfere in how New Vejer AS is dealing with these questions. I believe that there are many and more proactive ways of exercising ownership, including within the division of roles resulting from company law and the state's principles of good ownership, than the Council of State puts forward in its response to the Storting. The extension, operation and maintenance of the national road network in Norway is a responsibility which, in the view of the Workers' Party, should be entrusted to the State. New Weier AS is a state-owned whole-time limited liability company, so it is possible to argue that it is still the state that builds up, while the company is responsible for the operationalisation. However, it is not clear why an entity chooses a form of organisation that is primarily intended for commercial activities in order to discharge its responsibilities. However, the company is formed and operating, and we therefore call for clarification of the relationship between the administrative law and the share law – and insofar as other relevant laws, such as the law, are concerned. the disclosure law. This is particularly important when the company is to be authorised to take individual decisions. The most perceptive aspect of this proposition is that the Council of State does not have a full overview of the areas in which it may be appropriate to assign powers to the development company. Like the Council of State's own trade union, the Directorate of Roads, I miss a mention of when it might be relevant to delegation of authority. When it is not available, it becomes very difficult to assess the consequences of the legislative decision that the Council of State wants. Against this background, the Workers' Party cannot support the proposal for amendments to Section 9 of the Road Code. Getting to Stortinget and asking for a legal basis to introduce rules that can have a strong impact on the lives of individuals without pointing out any other reason than that there may be a need for rules is not good enough – especially when you are not even able to point out what this might be. may be. The Council of State should have withdrawn the proposal and, where appropriate, come back to the Storting with a proposal when the overall arrangements for the liability, operation and maintenance of the company are laid down and an overview of the areas in which the delegation of powers may be appropriate. However, if the Council of State chooses to continue to press through its weakly thought-out reforms as quickly as possible in the Grand Duchy, the parties that secure a majority must bear the consequences. If it is now the case that it becomes a majority in order to delegate that power to the development company, it is necessary to provide for a review body. There seems to be a broad consensus that it should be the Road Directorate, which the Workers' Party would then join. In addition, the Council of State has nevertheless proposed that one should set this aside and decide another Board of Appeal. It is not justified and not mentioned in the proposition. We cannot therefore support a proposal for the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 11. The case rapporteur and the proposition were in the responsibility of the development company for the planning programme and the municipal sub-plan. But let me stress that there is an experimental scheme that is limited to the projects Dørdal-Tvedestrand and Arendal-Grimstad on E18. This is not apparent from the proposal for an amendment to the Planning and Building Act § 3-7. In this context, I refer to the Workers' Party and the Central Party's comments on the change, which emphasises that there is a pilot scheme. I assume that the Council of State has noticed this and will possibly come back to Stortinget if there is a need to extend responsibility to the company. Then there are several people who have been concerned about the celebration here today. There are many good reasons to celebrate this day, but I do not think I am in favour of the rapporteur's comment that this proposition is the basis for it to be a party day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e598	After hearing the previous speeches, one could really just say that one was opposite the entire road company and ended with it, but it's going to be okay. I want to say a little about this with an independent roadside inspection. The establishment of independent roadside supervision has been a priority for the Right for many years, and we have previously made proposals on this in Stortinget, partly with our cooperation parties. Based on a quick search in the Stortingen database, I was able to find representative proposals that have been promoted in both 2007 and 2010, without the government at that time being able to meet such a proposal. On the other hand, a separate roadside inspection was established which is subject to the state road system. And then we're at the heart of the problem, that an oversight must be independent of those it's supposed to oversee. The changes we are now making in road laws take this into account and release the Road Safety Authority from the State Road Administration, both organisationally and formally. In the field of rail and aviation, the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority are in charge of control and safety oversight, and the organisations are stand-alone with regard to the Railway Agency and Avinor and supervise both private and public undertakings operating transport activities which are responsible for the construction and operation of infrastructure. There is no need to deal with the road sector in a significantly different way with regard to the organisation of safety work. There are many good reasons to have independent and exempted roadside supervision. The most important thing is the need to strengthen the work on road safety. The State Road Service has established a road safety and accident follow-up system and cooperates closely with other organisations in this area. The Road Safety Authority will ensure that both the State Road Administration and the New Roads AS have adequate and effective management systems that can contribute to road-safe highways. It may be easier for actors and individuals to alert and detect unacceptable circumstances through an independent supervisory body. The continuity of the follow-up to the safety work can be better ensured and control and oversight tasks will be carried out independently of the safety authorities. I record that both the Labour Party and the Center Party now seem to be in favour of independent and exempted roadside supervision, and I think that is positive. They justify that part of the responsibility for road construction has been transferred to Nye Weier AS. That's a good point in itself. It's great that we're now getting a joint committee that joins that proposal and the law changes, but we should have done this a lot earlier. There is a need for independent roadside supervision following up both the State Road Administration and the New Veier AS. Then to Prop. 159 L for 2015–2016: It is a goal for the government and the cooperation parties not only to invest more money in transport in Norway, but also to organise us better. That is why a new road development company is also established. It's an important tool to get what we want in the field of transportation. The company will have a predictable financial framework and will be able to plan projects more effectively. A lean construction organisation will mean that the company needs to think new, challenge standards and working methods, develop an effective supplier strategy and select custom forms of contract. New Vejer AS will be complementary to the State Road Service, and both organisations can challenge and learn from each other. It is a good starting point for innovation and a good contribution to building the road, not only faster, but also cheaper. New roads have initially been given a limited portfolio: mainly four-field roads on E6, E18 and E39. The changes now proposed in road laws and the Planning and Building Act are necessary formal changes to enable the road development company to be established and operate in line with the intention of the Report. St. 25 for 2014–2015 Straight ahead. It is important to establish a framework for development companies to meet the objective of a faster and more comprehensive development of the main road network in Norway. I'm not going to go into all the individual paragraphs, except to say that for our part this is a purely follow-up to the message I just referred to, and it's adapted to the law just to make the road company Nye Veier AS function as rational and efficient as possible, just to build more roads faster and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e619	Let me start by saying that an oversight is something you create because you feel a need, either because you think the task that someone is assigned to do is not done well enough – then we are talking about a public office or a public body – or because you have put up with a lot of what you're doing, and you need to supervise it. It is undoubtedly more bureaucratic. A parallel bureaucracy is undoubtedly being built to ensure that others comply with the laws and regulations. That's why it's always important and sensible to think about whether we need supervision in a field, or whether we think it works well enough with a etching. I'm e.g. I am sure that Mr. Tor André Johnsen thinks that he himself knows best what his own money will be used for, he does not need any supervision to take care of what he spends his money for, although he certainly does not always spend the money in the most reasonable way. But now let it lie like a joke to Tor André Johnsen. I see no reason to oppose the supervision that is now being proposed. I don't have any good arguments to be against it. I think these are arguments that speak for, for example. in the road sector, that supervision can point out that insufficient money is being spent on maintenance and that more money should be spent on maintenance to ensure a road quality and a road standard agreed on at Stortinget rather than spending more money on new road projects that may be more efficient, but may still be. Oversight can help you take care of what you have, to a greater extent than betting on new horses. The new road company Nye Weger is an act to do the opposite, because it is said that something is now being put outside direct political governance. I remember the presentation of this. It was almost an honor to put something out of political control, because then they made sure that someone was holding on to themselves. But there is undoubtedly one thing that is moving towards increasing borrowing needs, increasing the need for road investment, although perhaps society as a whole should give priority to maintenance instead. But now leave it. I didn't try to make this the big budget debate or the big governance debate, but just point out that we should problematize just this with how we need supervision, and where we don't need it. Today, however, the government is given a majority for oversight. The second discussion is the discussion of what kind of authority we give to the road company. There I join what Eirik Sivertsen from the Workers' Party was up and said. I will go against the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9 and the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 11, that the department may ‘provide information as a derogation provided for in the first sentence’. [[...]] So they say that the Road Directorate is the Board of Appeal, but the Department can make exceptions. I am in favour of the Road Directorate being the Board of Appeal, but against the Department being able to make exceptions. It's about me being critical of the construction of New Roads, and we don't think we should have had it, but of course it makes sense that there are rules, supervision, the kind of thing that should apply to New Roads, once the state company has arrived. With that, I guess I've really explained and explained what we're going to vote, and expressed the principal aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e634	Today is a historic day. In the previous debate, we were told that the day marks 20 years since the Workers' Party showed the willingness to reform the transport sector by establishing the railway system. It's 20 years too long to stand still. But today, we're marking the first contract that New Veger gives on Arendal–Tvedestrand. This is the first solid signal to build more roads – faster, better, cheaper and more holistic. That not all of the Storting supports this, I find it sad, even though it has been adopted. For many, many years, Stortinget has discussed and worried about building piece by piece and piece. In the context of the current national transport plan, there are also red-green local politicians in many places who say that the national transport plan deals with road sections in part and part. We haven't been able to fix all those problems, but we've managed to do a lot. The contract that will be announced today to Arendal-Tvedestrand is a sign of this. That section of the road is built beyond what it was originally planned. I'm very pleased with that. I know that someone in the opposition fears that New Roads will represent a roadbonanza. It was the Workers' Party's criticism of this. I think most people in this country think it's okay that we build several roads between cities and into the districts. Then we tolerate a roadbonanza, because people prefer it rather than croc paths, poorly maintained roads and not least unsafe roads. I think it is very good that the representative from SV now says that it is important to maintain the road network, so that the dues are reduced. I wish you would have done that a long time ago when you had control of the money flows through the government. Then the road maintenance was de-prioritized. In fact, the red-green government proposed to cut road maintenance in its budget for 2014, just before they left, while under today's bourgeois majority there is a strong growth in road maintenance, just like on railway maintenance, precisely because we have to take care of what we have. The centre party said that Nye Veier would put Norwegian road construction back ten years in time. Well, I think today you'll see that in that case they'll get a journey back to the future, because now we're accelerating across the road, and we're making them more holistic. The proposals under discussion in the Grand Duchy today are not new policies, but it is simply about formalising and implementing the decisions taken by the Grand Duchy in the past. Now that we see the results as we further develop the reforms, the way you should work to ensure that you get good results. It's important that we also get someone who looks at us in the cards. That's what Road Safety is all about. When you listen to the comments by the representative Holmås, you should almost think that the Road Safety Authority is now being set up for the first time, but it has existed for a long time. What's important now is to make it independent. I disagree with the position that I believe SV has, namely that supervision is only necessary when it is competition, or when it is private actors, that it is not important when there are state actors inside, or when there is only one unit. On the contrary, we need someone who always looks at us in the cards, because even if you think you're doing your job perfectly, it's okay that someone else who has a different responsibility, who sees what society requires, who makes sure that the rules are followed, can look one in the cards. That is why it is also so important that road safety is independent that it is not covered by the Directorate-General for Roads, but that it can actually have a role to play. At the same time, I would like to hurry and stress that there is no reason to believe that the Road Directorate has exercised some negative authority to the Road Safety Authority to try to cover things up. But it is still about getting those roles so clear that no one can suspect it, and then you have to release the road safety. I am glad that what the opposition under the previous government argued harshly for too long, but was not heard, was actually carried out. That way we can move on. We can go on and on to make sure that someone looks at us in the cards even better than ever before. We can make sure that they both look at the counties, that they look at the state, and that they look at the actors who work there. To go back to New Roads: It is also important that New Roads have the powers they need to do a job. However, unlike the opposition, the government suggests that the Board of Appeal should be the Directorate of Road and not the Road Safety, for these are not supervisory tasks but practical assessments. But it is also natural, I think, in a democracy, that one has the opportunity to appeal a decision further to the political government of the Ministry of Transport, rather than that it is a technocratic government to rule, and that the Directorate of Road gets the last word anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e660	My question to the Council of State is: What should the company use the delegation of power pursuant to Section 9 of the Road Law for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e665	They'll be able to decide when they see that they need it. I understand that the Workers' Party is questioning what we're doing. But the fact that one should be able to make sure that a road carrier can take the decisions they need to make progress in their work, I think, is important. So it is not unnatural that the Workers' Party asks questions, because the Workers' Party was against this at first. One thought that the road company would create a roadbonanza. I think it is good that you get to work on this. Then I also see that Nye Veier is involved in many projects – looking at the whole, looking at how they can work with the municipalities, finding better plan solutions, and not least that they see long distances at the same time. I think that's good, and we want them to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e675	I repeat my question: what should the company use the delegated authority under Section 9 of the Road Code for? What are the decisions to make by the company, and what are the consequences for those affected? Here, the Council of State comes to the Storting and asks for a legal basis to take decisions that affect people, but is unable to explain what kind of decisions the company is going to take. I repeat the question: what should the company use the delegated authority according to Section 9 of the Road Law for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e682	It's in the proposition, or in the setting that one has: «The Authority shall be limited to individual decisions concerning the development, operation and maintenance of the national roads for which the company is responsible.» It's natural when you're going to build a road, that you have to make some decisions about how to actually build the road. That's the authority they must have, the same way that the Road Service needs to have the kind of thing when they're going to build their roads. Then one could appeal this if one believes locally that one does not get the decisions that one should have. One will be able to appeal to the Directorate of Roads, and I also mean appeal it up to the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e692	The Council of State is quite right when he writes in the proposition that he does not have an overview of what these delegated provisions should be used for. I have now twice asked the Council of State to prepare it. He is unable to respond to the types of individual decisions that we are going to make, which decisions to make. On the other hand, he points out that the Road Directorate is the Board of Appeal. I said that on the floor that it is the broad agreement, but it is also suggested, in the second sentence, that the ministry can set aside that provision and point to another Board of Appeal. Then I guess I'll try another question: what kind of complaints is the Council of State going to replace the Road Directorate, since he's proposing such a warrant?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e697	Now I think there's going to be a lot of decimal movements here, because our primary proposal is the Road Directorate, not the Road Authority, as the representative Sivertsen made the impression. And to go back to Section 9: When you're going to build a road, there's a lot of small and big decisions to make, about where the road should be, what kind of design it should have, etc. I do not think it is natural for all those decisions to be taken, for example. in the Road Administration or in the Road Directorate. I have noticed that the Labour Party in many debates gives the impression that there will be a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of double administration. Yes, if it is that the Workers' Party is against a company having powers, yes, it will have a double administration. That's exactly why we're saying that some of these decisions have to be able to actually take one locally, with those who work on the road and have to plan it, build it and run it. Then, of course, one should take account of the actors. If this is such a cruel way of organizing things, why is it that the Workers' Party thinks that NSB AS should have done a lot more, and thinks it's okay that Avinor had a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e702	How did the Council of State avoid me saying in my post that there might sometimes be a need for supervision that could oversee public tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e707	I noticed in the post of the representative Holmås that he gave the impression that this supervision was almost something that was newly established. That's what I was reacting to. I reacted that he commented very much that when there are private actors, it is important to have supervision. I would just like to stress and remind you that this roadside inspection has existed for a long time. The important thing here is not to create it, the important thing is to separate it from the Road Directorate, so that you don't have a situation with the goat and the oat bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e712	I noticed that the Council of State did not answer the question this time either. He avoided noticing the fact that I mentioned that there are two reasons for overseeing both to oversee public tasks and to oversee competitive services. This is like the way of the Council of State to be in the Storting, namely to listen selectively to what has been said from the pulpit. Since maintenance was taken up: Is it true that more than half of the investment in the railway sector has been forced from the opposition and has not come from the Council itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e719	It is true that in the budgetary comparisons with the Christian People's Party and the Left there has been increased investment on the railways beyond what the government proposed. At the same time, the draft budget for 2017 proposes appropriations higher than that of the 2016 budget. What one gets double bonus on with today's bourgeois majority is that first get a bet from the government, and then get another bet from the constructive part of the opposition. It has made even with the government's proposed budget a set of reduced maintenance kits. One was reduced even more after it had entered the Stortinget – unlike when the representative Holmås was in government and presented a budget that increased the decay of the railway, and the Stortinget did nothing to change it despite the fact that a total opposition – under the red-green government – would cut the downturn. It's a little strange that the red-green parties in the Storting are now critical and talk about a decay that they themselves were creating, and that was removed under today's majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e724	We shall be happy to see that the alternative budgets of the Progress Party or the Right were not adopted in the last eight years when there was a red-green majority. This has been documented by the Investigation Section, and we have gone through all the budgets. It turns out that the maintenance run would have been bigger on the railway side both with the Right and with the Progress Party. You can choose to relate to the facts, or you can't relate to the facts. I think the last few days have shown that there would probably be far greater opportunities for the Christian People's Party and the Left to achieve significantly better investment on rail – on maintenance, on investment, and not least on planning – if they had chosen to cooperate the opposite way of what they are doing today. But 'time will show', and then we'll see how the election goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e731	When it comes to the elections that the representative Holmås brings up, I will deal with the facts. That's what I often use to be the most tidy thing. The fact is that the maturity increased in the years the representative Holmås crashed. The maturity of the railway has declined in the years of a bourgeois majority. In 2012, the planning budget for the red-green government for new rail was around 46 million. kr. In the 2017 budget proposal from today's government, it is close to 1,500 million. NOK – it's 30 times more. It is well possible that the Christian People's Party and the Left could put a bigger impression if they had been allowed to influence the red-green budgets, because there was a lot more to improve. But I think when you look at what you've got, one in total appropriations has got to a lot more with three bourgeois years than one done with almost eight red-green years. Only in a collective effort in the cities has a grant of 4.8 billion. DKK in three years – the previous government granted SEK 1.8 billion. kr. I think it's civil it's the most accessible thing to pick up on climate, on the environment and on good transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e736	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e744	Now I'm not going to add up to any long New Veger debate here, there's probably more in the budget, I think. But I want to comment a little bit about Eirik Sivertsen's articles. He did not want to celebrate, the representative Sivertsen. There was no reason to celebrate today, I hear. I think I have to celebrate twice to make up for the lack of celebration in the Workers' Party, because what happens to New Roads, and what is now happening on the transport side, is historic. I think it is a little strange that representatives from the left-hand side are not already seeing the positive results of New Roads. Today, the contractor is chosen to start developing the E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal. On the E6 northwards there are not only accelerations with a couple–three years for the expansion, it is talk in many years. This is about expanding sections of the road that were not even planned and wanted to be developed under the red-green. I have to say, it's a little weird. With regard to Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås from SV, I am very pleased that the representative from SV believes that I know best how to use my tax money myself. I appreciate that trust, but I am very pleased that the tax money is used to ensure safe, good road standards so that both representatives from the SV and the Progress Party can travel safely on the Norwegian road network. But I'm having a little trouble understanding. I perceived the representative from SV a bit as being afraid that New Veier was outside political governance. New ways are absolutely not outside political governance, but it is outside political detail governance, and there is a big difference. It's not rematches, it's not squabbling from year to year, you're not coming out and in by NTP. It is politicians who put the general leadership on the framework, on the financial framework, on which projects are put into New Roads, and at the progress level overall, but not in detail. So it's absolutely within political governance. Then I think it is a little against this – at least as I see both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party – that they obviously do not want the Department and the Minister to have political governance in appeals in connection with Section 11 and supervision and deviations for applications and dispensations. If one is to be able to deviate from the Road Directorate and to grant exemptions, it is precisely to take political direction. So I think it's going to be a little illogical.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e756	Prop. 159 L for 2015–2016 is a legal case that is currently being dealt with by the country’s legislative assembly. Laws provide rights and opportunities for citizens, but they may also be intrusive and lead to restricted rights for the inhabitants of this country. That is why it is absolutely vital when we deal with legal issues, that we have sufficient grounds to be able to assess the impact of the legislative decisions that this House actually makes. The size largely confers regulatory rights to the Ministry – delegated powers that may also be delegated – or to other companies. That is what is proposed in this case. What I tried to problem in my post instead was – as the proposition also shows – that you do not have a full overview. For me, this is not a debate on New Veier AS. That company came with the will of the majority. It is operational and will enter into its first contract today. We may not like that, but we have a responsibility in this room to make sure that the matter is well informed enough to make a decision. I don't think it's today. And when I challenge the Council of State on the formalities related to this and a justification for the legislative proposals that have been promoted, and what the consequences of the legislative proposals will be for the citizens, the Council of State will not answer, or he will not be able to answer. I understand that it may be difficult to keep track of a large field, but I do not think this is a good enough decision-making basis. I am unable to assess the impact of the delegation decisions we are adopting today. When the Council of State says that when we build a road, many small and big decisions are taken, yes, the many small and big decisions will also affect quite a lot of people, without us knowing the consequences. As regards the Board of Appeal, the Directorate of Roads is proposed as a Board of Appeal. There is broad support for this, but I get no answer as to why the Department, without being discussed or mentioned in the proposition, will have the authority to establish another Board of Appeal. There may be a lot of good reasons for that, but I don't get that reason. I was set up and I thought I would get some answers today, so we added it as a preliminary work to the law so that when you interpret it, you can understand it. I didn't get that. After the Rules of Procedure, it is too late to promote a loose proposal in the matter, but I would ask the President to consider whether we can discuss a loose proposal to send this matter back to the Department, because it is not well informed. As I understand it, both the Central Party and the Socialist Left will support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e771	I was actually going to end the debate. From our side we believe that this matter is well informed as it is available. This is a purely follow-up to the Report. St. 25, On the right track, for 2014-2015, it is to give the necessary authority – in line with the reform adopted by a majority of the Stortinget – to the road company, precisely in order for the road company to be able to carry out the job it is intended to do by the majority of the population. I respect that there may be some questions about the different paragraphs. But it will be that when, for example, According to Section 9 of the Road Law, it is precisely in order for it to be able to do the job it is set to do, namely to build, operate and maintain the roads that the company has been granted. When it says in a sentence here that one may not have a «full overview» of all the eventualities, it is usually the same in the case of other roads covered by the Road Act § 9. Among other things, it also refers to the delegation of «authority to the county, regional road office and municipality». It won't be possible at any time to have a full overview of all the eventualities, of what it will mean once in the future. There may be situations in which there is a need to have a certain opening in order that it is not possible to define everything in advance. I do not see the very big problem associated with this. I respect the fact that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are opposed to the establishment of the road company, but it is despite all the large majority in this big business that is in favour of the establishment of Nye Veier AS, which is behind it, and which now facilitates that company to carry out its task on behalf of the majority of the population in this country, namely to build roads both faster and cheaper than we have seen so far. For our part, as presented by the government, we are fully committed to the changes in the law as they exist. We vote for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e782	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e788	I hear the representative saying that the majority believes the matter is well informed, but the fact is that the majority is not able to explain what decisions we are talking about either. I understand that you cannot predict all the decisions that can be made on a specific road project, but what we are talking about here is a simple decision. It is a simple decision and decisions affect the rights and obligations of legal persons. It's a serious matter, and I can't see that the majority is able to explain it. I find it very regrettable that this urgency is given higher priority than the adoption of laws on a responsible basis. I am not reassured when I hear the case rapporteur talk as if one of the reasons for establishing a different Board of Appeal from the Road Directorate is that one should be able to have political governance with complaints. For me – I hope I misunderstand this – it is not reassuring, and that is not the law I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e794	It is not uncommon for a delegate to descend into the system. Today, when managing their road projects, one delegates authority down to the municipalities and county municipalities. But delegating authority so that you can actually make the decision at the level that is closest to the ones involved does not mean that you enable them to go on the side of or above or under the law. New roads have to deal with the law just like municipalities and county municipalities, and so far as the state road system, when they make these decisions. When one hears the Workers' Party in this debate, it seems to them that we are creating a state in the state, where New Veiger does not have to deal with anyone other than his own. It's not like that. The legislation must be complied with. There are road standards that describe how the roads are to be built. Then New Roads can ask for exemptions from these road standards. Then it will be handled on a case-by-case basis. We can't now say that it's going to happen on it and that kilometre marker on Arendal-Tvedestrand. If that's the kind of approach the Workers' Party will have – that we should be able to point out already which sections of the road and on which points we should ask for an exception from where one likes to lay the bicycle path in relation to the road normal, where one likes to have a slightly wider or narrow side field than the road normal, where one has a slightly different tunnel design than the road normal, then it's a completely meaningless approach. That is precisely why we have complaints bodies, because if New Vejer takes a decision that is strongly opposed by the community and which one believes goes across the law or does not provide good enough local reasons, yes, one should be able to complain to the Directorate of Road, which is the body that is also the body of complaint when the state road authorities make decisions that the local people do not agree with. If one still believes that this does not preserve democracy in a good enough way, the Ministry of Transport is indeed something to which you can complain. Thus, all these legal security aspects that have been addressed have been addressed. There is nothing unnatural about New Roads getting this approach. It already exists. I think it's a little weird if it's like New Roads because it's an AS, all of a sudden, it's very problematic, when we know that Avinor is also an AS, which has great powers, but where the Workers' Party has never, according to my knowledge, been out protesting. When we know that the railway reform proposal for the trade union movement is to create an NSB Holding, i.e. a limited company to manage the Norwegian railway system, yes, it would be impossible with the approach taken by the Workers' Party in this matter. Therefore, I wonder what is the real reason for the formalism shown here by the Workers' Party, and which is also a criticism of what I think is an incomplete basis, because it points out a problem that is not really real, because the law also applies to New Roads. They're not above it, although they're going to build roads faster, better and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e806	I had initially thought that we should not be against everything that was in this case about the amendment of the law. But I have to admit that it is very worrying that the Minister for Transport cannot explain what the legislative changes entail on questions from the representative Sivertsen. I think it is so serious that if we can't get a loose proposal to send the bill back, I don't see any other solution for the centre party than that we vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e811	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e979	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e991	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1011	Then the president thinks we'll try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1023	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1032	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a national certification scheme for drivers’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of provisions on train crew driving and rest periods’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a common pension legislation for employees of companies in the railway sector’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1232	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1244	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President now assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1256	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1333	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1343	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1352	Then we come to the vote on the position of the Transport and Communications Committee on changes in road laws and the Planning and Building Act. The representative, Mr Sivertsen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1359	In the examination of this matter, more confusion has arisen than was the case when we started to deal with the matter. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, the case is not sufficiently informed that it can be dealt with by Stortinget. I would therefore like to make a proposal under Section 41 of the Rules of Procedure to return the matter to the Committee. If there is no majority for that, I can add an explanation of vote. The Workers' Party will then vote against the position on the amendment of the law as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1366	The President notes that Eirik Sivertsen has also promoted this proposal during the debate, in line with Section 41, where it states: ‘Before the debate on a matter is closed, proposals can be made for the matter to be referred back to the Committee.’ We support the Workers’ Party. [[(from the hall):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1378	Then the president took note of it. And the same thing is true of the Center Party. Then we go to voting in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox We first raise the proposal from Mr Sivertsen that the matter should be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1440	It is contested in the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1455	The second sentence is added to Section 11 of the second paragraph. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1469	The rest of I and II are voted on. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1483	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President now assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1495	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-01.ana.ud38e1509	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
