ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e24	Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representatives of Hege Haukeland Liadal and Anette Trettebergstuen from 14 March to 17 March and from 15 March to 17 March – all to participate in meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in Zambia from the Labour Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Sonja Mandt from 14 March to 17 March to take part in the UN 60th Women's Commission meeting in New York These applications are proposed to be dealt with immediately and agreed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Øystein Langholm Hansen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Rogaland County, Unn Therese Omdal, currently have parental leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the Rogaland County: Helge Steinsvåg For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e80	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e83	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose a climate agreement for transport and 49 proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector based on the report of the Environment Directorate entitled Climate Action and Emissionways towards 2030. The knowledge base for low-emission development».
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e88	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e91	On behalf of the representatives of Arild Grande, Sonja Mandt, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I would like to propose a new alignment of the production grant to news and news media, where minimum rates are raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e96	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e110	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e119	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and broad presentation. ‘The tone of the year’s presentation is mollified,’ said the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself. Problems and crises are rarely lacking in foreign policy. In these days the civil war in Syria goes into its sixth year, hundreds of thousands of lives have been lost, and millions have fled. Before the war broke out in 2011, Syria was an intermediate country. Russia has shown a alarming military willingness to risk both in Ukraine and Syria. We must combine and balance with Russia on the one hand predictability, firmness and clarity and on the other hand transparency, constructive dialogue and practical cooperation. The refugee crisis south-east in Europe remains just that, a crisis, and political is a great deal at stake for Europe, both for EU cooperation and for European border cooperation – yes for a culture of cooperation built up through generations. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe visited the Storting yesterday, and he pointed out the paradox: we have never had a better organised Europe. We've never had a richer Europe. That we still can't deal with the refugee crisis is a tragedy. However, I am afraid that the Foreign Minister is drawing a too dark picture of the world in which we live: on the one hand, we must not lose sight of the progress and highlights we also experience in international policy – the nuclear agreement with Iran, the climate agreement in Paris, the peace progress in Colombia, the normalisation of relations between the United States and Cuba, economic growth and progress in several countries in Asia and Africa, and democratic and peaceful shifts in power, among others. Nigeria, Sri Lanka and the Central African Republic. More importantly, we must not be weighed down by problems. A gloomy description of reality must not get in the way of a constructive approach. What role can, and should, Norway play — prevention, fines or otherwise contribute to solving many of the foreign policy problems and challenges? The Minister for Foreign Affairs is entitled to mention an active peace and reconciliation policy. ‘Preventing conflict and war and contributing to the resolution of acute conflicts are cost-effective foreign policy’ said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here I hope that the present government is as wholehearted in its engagement policy as the previous one. Our peace and reconciliation policy is about entering into where the problems are greatest, where we do not always succeed, but where it is about Norway being able to play a role. It is also about Norway not always going to be in the middle of the field, in the middle of the landscape. It's about drying to lie a step ahead, not walking by, but being in front, pushing boundaries, being willing to take and accept political risks. What does that mean politically in practice? This means, among other things: Talking to people we don't like, being honest with our friends – even when we disagree. In disarmament policy, NATO membership places obvious restrictions on the role that Norway can play, but the scope is greater than that of today’s government. On the nuclear disarmament agenda, we did not have to leave our position in the humanitarian initiative, nor did we have to let Austria run alone with this. With regard to women and gender equality, Margot Wallström has introduced what she calls a feminist foreign policy. Being clear also in the areas where we encounter resistance – prevention, abortion, family planning – is actually also addressing the issues that are controversial. Norway’s voice is more important than ever. The engagement policy is about saying clearly that in the relationship between Israel and Palestine today the status quo is being strengthened, it strengthens the strongest right. We have to be able to say this clearly. While we are the head of the donor country group for Palestine, it gives a special responsibility to address violations of international law. We have to be as clear-cut on the Israeli side of international law as we are against Russia and their actions in Ukraine. The Storting heard a good foreign policy statement. The Foreign Minister also mentions development policy issues, but the content of the statement does not reflect the speech of the figures. In the government's original draft budget for 2016, development assistance amounted to 33.6 billion. NOK 41 billion of the total budget of the U.D. kr. So over three quarters of the foreign minister's budget goes to development measures. It is therefore tempting after this presentation to ask for an explanation of development policy. Indeed, Norwegian development policy is changing, and today there are major political changes in aid policy. Refugee policy and the situation in Syria have made it necessary to increase humanitarian aid sharply. This grip has the support of Stortinget. But there have also been major cuts and re-priorities in long-term development assistance recently, not always being deleted based on thorough strategic considerations. We have to be careful, so that the development budget does not become a sort of global cross-border item. Recipient and poverty orientation should remain the cornerstone of Norwegian development policy. The size has supported changes made to the development budget, but it is a strength that major changes and re-priorities can be discussed openly and broadly. Fortunately, one of the major changes that was introduced into the budget for the current year did not make it any of that. Large budget cuts were proposed to the UN organisations. It had involved a conversion of Norwegian UN policy, and I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have corrected this when they made budgetary settlements with the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently launched a separate roadmap project. Debate and transparency on Norwegian foreign policy are important, not least when it comes to anchoring foreign policy. At the same time, the similarity is more than striking with the previous government project Regleks – Norwegian interests in a globalised world. This project resulted in a big message of interests, responsibilities and opportunities – main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. This crash message is still recommended. It's not out of date. Its main act stands out well also in the world we live today. The concepts of foreign policy were updated, rehabilitated and relaunched. Our most important strategic bet area is the North. At a time when we are experiencing increased tensions in Europe, we have an even greater interest in further developing our concrete cooperation with the countries of the Arctic in general and with Russia in particular. I hope that the Foreign Minister's project to anchor foreign policy more effectively will result in more concrete progress in Northern Region cooperation. This needs to be further developed and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e149	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and thorough presentation, which makes it clear that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed. But the world is not firm. Dramatic events in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods reinforce a trend in which foreign policy is becoming more and more domestic policy. The government has taken the initiative in a debate on Norway’s choices in foreign and security policy. I hope that the debates we have here in Stortinget can act as a road sign along this road. The environment changes at a faster pace than before, and this may mean that we have to correct the course when we see unforeseen events and situations. Central, however, is our long-term strategy. The crises we are now seeing may be over, and new and other crises may appear tomorrow, in 5, 10 or 20 years. That is why we need to think in the long term about security policy and stand firm about our values and our interests. Few countries depend more on international institutions and clear international rules than we do. The Foreign Minister presented a world full of contrasts in his presentation to the Stortinget. Let me start with some comments on the good news, important progress that has been made in a great deal of space: with the Paris agreement under COP 21, we got the first legally binding climate agreement with real global participation from all countries. It provides a good basis for combating the threat posed by global climate change. Last year the UN adopted new sustainability targets to replace the Millennium Goals. We have seen peace-building developments in several countries and in several areas. The nuclear agreement with Iran, the peace talks in Colombia, more openness in Myanmar and Venezuela are among these. We are experiencing economic growth in both Asia and Africa; we are also seeing progress in WTO negotiations, while reducing global poverty and increasing numbers of children receiving education and better health care. Education, especially for girls and women, is the key to a lasting path out of poverty. Still 58 million children do not have access to school. Therefore, the main efforts on education for girls and children in crisis and conflict areas, humanitarian aid and efforts in vulnerable countries are the main contributions to alleviate distress, help refugees in the neighbourhoods and prevent new crises. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also presented the negative trends facing the world: the climate challenges, the emergence of terrorist organisations, epidemics and a large number of humanitarian disasters that put the world community to the test and that depend on mutual trust and cooperation in order to be resolved. The responsibility often rests on the UN and the multilateral order, but each country must also contribute to action. Several states that, after the Cold War, went from Communist states to liberal democracies, now experience internal and external pressure on democratic institutions. We must contribute to the promotion of universal human rights, including on our own continent, Europe. Last but not least, the situation has worsened along the southern borders of Europe. Disquieting and political upheavals have proliferated and are now a security risk to our part of the world. We see countries in Europe's southern neighbourhoods experiencing radicalisation and violent extremism that do not know national boundaries. The most precarious is the situation in Syria and neighbouring countries. The war in Syria has been going on for over five years, leading to one of the worst and greatest humanitarian disasters since World War II. I think we have to admit that the world community, despite good intentions, was unable to understand the consequences of the Security Council not providing solutions that halted Assad's abuse of power against its own people. Now we're left with an expensive tuition fee. In Syria alone, nearly 5 million refugees are displaced, and 7 million are internally displaced. President Assad's attack has helped to increase ISIL's growth and spread to Iraq and other countries in the region. It does not make it easier for many actors now to be involved in the conflict picture. Involvement of regional powers such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey – and Russia, which have joined the Assad warfare – does not make the situation any easier. What the Syrian people need is support for moderate forces that contribute to a political solution. During a visit to Oslo in December, the UN Special Mission to Syria, Staffan de Mistura, stated that he saw indications of a solution, a light in the tunnel, of what has been called his ‘mission impossible’. The refugee crisis has led to a much stronger commitment also in European countries. The emergence of ISIL has led to a new community of interests between otherwise conflicting parties, but Russia’s military entry into Syria requires coordination of efforts and a common understanding between the United States and European countries on what is going on to achieve regime change and peace in the country. Saudi Arabia and Iran, which have the key to resolving the conflict peacefully, are themselves in a substitute war between Sunni and Shia in Yemen and have frozen their diplomatic relations. We need an international power collection to resolve the crises and conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa in order to prevent people from taking refuge. It requires that we work along several axes. First of all, hope must be given to mankind. Weak state governance, lack of freedom of expression and high unemployment are the root of despair. Governments in vulnerable countries with weak government must take people's uprisings seriously. At the same time, terrorism and radicalisation must be tackled. Norway, as a democratic surplus nation, has the opportunity to play an facilitating role in peace within and between the countries of the region. We've contributed along several axes. As a member of the multinational anti-ISIL coalition, Norway is involved in training Kurdish peshmerga and the Iraqi army so that they are better equipped to defeat the terrorists in ISIL. We were a group from Stortinget in Erbil in northern Iraq recently and met many dedicated Norwegian soldiers on mission. I want to commend the participation and suspension of the Norwegian military who contribute to the training mission there. We are very grateful for that. Organized crime, especially human smuggling, is an increasing problem. Many refugees, but many also travel with false hopes, given them by human traffickers. The asylum seekers who came over Storskog last year came from 46 countries, not just Syria. It is now essential to put in place solutions that limit trafficking in human beings and reduce the pressure on migration towards Europe. The opinions of EU leaders at the weekend summit show that the EU is discussing innovative approaches that can help improve the situation. The most important thing is that we get new measures that affect inflows into Europe and Norway and that they can prevent the loss of more lives in the Mediterranean. In Norway, we want a strict but fair policy to deal with refugees and migration, and we will continue to provide protection to those who need it. Norway is a major contributor, and support for humanitarian purposes is increasing in 2016 to nearly 5 billion. to meet the major and increasing humanitarian needs of the world resulting from war, conflict and natural disasters. At the London donor country conference, Norway pledged 10 billion. kr for displaced acids in the region. The security policy situation is now characterised by increased unforeseeability and uncertainty, where the international legal order as we know it is under pressure. Russia is pursuing a more aggressive foreign policy. Medvedev talks about a new cold war – our Prime Minister luckily rejects this. But Russia has developed a significant increase in military capability, with the will to break international law and use military power to advance its interests. Northern areas have become a more strategic area that can trigger a range of events. It requires sovereignty and presence, deterrence and tranquillity. The international legal order may be further under greater pressure in a multipolar world order, where new major acts and – more importantly – non-governmental actors challenge current laws and regulations. It will then become even more important for Norway to support a United Nations-led world order and to cooperate with our NATO allies, our Nordic and European friends and others who support a free and democratic world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e200	In its foreign policy statement last week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that the world is facing greater challenges than it has been for a long time. I'll say they're bigger than ever. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also entitled to say that not everything is negative. There are areas where development seems to be moving in the right direction. However, the paradox is that these areas have limited interest and commitment to the broad community of the people. The concern expressed by most people is rarely related to the Paris climate agreement, the WTO negotiations, the nuclear agreement with Iran or decisions on new sustainability goals. You might think these things are important, but they're no kiosks for the man in the street. However, it is very positive for us all that global poverty is being reduced, that more children are being educated, and that economic growth continues in parts of Africa and Asia. It is therefore important that these countries be able to further develop their democracies and that corruption cease. On our part, we should show solidarity, not primarily through dependent assistance, but through trade. If well-developed countries protect their markets, economic growth will be difficult to maintain. At the same time as we see positive traits, population growth in many of the same countries is very worrying. Population growth will in itself be able to zero out the advances we've seen in recent years. According to the UN, the world’s population will increase from 7 billion to 10 billion by 2050. That means that the earth's population is increasing by 225,000 people every day – that means Bergen City every day. Unfortunately, this challenge is less addressed. The EU is torn from several sides, and there is a great chance that what we see today will not survive in the long term. It should not necessarily be negative for the Member States, nor for Norway. National borders do not mean the cessation of international trade but the return of more powers, rights of access and democratic control to the national states. Our neighbouring countries will continue to be our neighbouring countries and our main trading partners. At the same time, such developments are likely to lead to less frustration among most people — or less populism, as Medie-Norway likes to mention it. Very many Europeans are concerned about the future. Many people feel that their national identity is weakened and that traditional national communities are becoming confused. Moreover, economic growth is weak and unemployment is often high. More and more people feel that these concerns are not addressed by politicians with power and influence. The dissatisfaction with politicians is due to more than one relationship. Many people feel that the distance from decision-makers is great, many feel that decisions are being legalised and the rules of democracy are set aside. However, it is particularly important that politicians lack the will and ability to absorb the frustration that many feel about immigration from Muslim countries. It must be said that integration is successful, as the representative of Kolberg did in Political Quarter at the NRK this morning, but it is not going to be any more right for that reason. However, the truth is that most people experience segregation and that parallel societies are established. There we see that our values of freedom are being challenged, and that established Western life-styles are being rejected. Politicians most describe the problems and look for reasons other than the obvious, often because they are unpleasant, but perhaps even more because they are at risk of being subjected to the collective condemnation of the media — a collective media corporation that, through managers, comments and interviews with each other, does not want to inform but instruct. It is this experience that leads voters to leave the established and historical largest batches. It's called democracy. It's an expression of neither right nor left populism, either stupidity or magic. This is because their concerns are not addressed and they themselves are stamped and stigmatised. And here are both conservatives and social democrats in a crisis. They have removed themselves from the people. So it is not only Europe's social democrats who are struggling, but also the conservative parties. The President of the Council of Europe would like to refer to this as new nationalism and other find words, but it does not help – there is frustration out there that needs to be addressed. Because of this, a presidential candidate like Donald Trump appears – out of a hat, many say, but that's exactly why he shows up. Add Bernie Sanders, who will traditionally be perceived as a foreign bird in American politics. In a democratic society, criticism from the opposition shall be encouraged, not silenced, pronounced a White House spokesman a few days ago. He did not refer to Norwegian media, but to the closure by the Turkish authorities of Turkey's largest opposition newspaper, Zaman. Developments in the country of NATO Turkey are very worrying. The country's setting aside democratic rules of play cannot be accepted. The NATO alliance is not only based on collective military defence of geographical boundaries. It is also a collective defence of democracy, where pluralism and freedom of expression are one of the important and bearing elements. At the same time, the fact that Turkey is engaged in the extortion of Europe by requiring the transfer of new billions of euro, while the EU is being forced to accept new tens of thousands of refugees, is not worth a NATO country or a potential EU country. As a non-EU member, Norway should not participate in this refugee game. And if we do that, only 3,500 of the extra Syrian 8,000 refugees who were welcomed by the Labour Party National Assembly must be welcomed. The fact that Erdogan has also forced visa-free access for Turks to the EU shows that Turkey has received both bag and bag. However, Turkey's diplomatic games can strike back on the country itself. The many demands of the country may lead to the gradual absence of any EU membership. Then Turkey has shot itself in the foot. NATO’s challenges with Turkey are reinforced by the growing scepticism of the United States to act as the guarantor of peace and security in Europe. The US demands that NATO countries give greater priority to the defence of their own countries. This is also something Norway needs to address. The long-term defence plan must address this in a credible manner. It is worrying when the representative of the Republican Abroad in Norway, Vincent Eugene Francis Baugh, says: the United States will no longer be Europe’s National Guard or Europe’s ‘kernel’. Build their own army. We're isolationists. Baugh also claims that a Republican President of the White House will build a better relationship with Russia. It brings me to another foreign policy dilemma. I choose to interpret the foreign minister's description of Norway's relationship with Russia as an attempt at reconciliation. Nevertheless, the concerns and accusations are quite categorical, but the Minister should have a reputation for giving considerable emphasis to the desire for good neighbourliness, good practical cooperation and constructive dialogue. The Minister’s reminder that Krass rhetoric itself may be escalating was timely and important to pass on in various international forums. Norway has a very active global commitment, a role that far surpasses the other countries of our size. Sometimes we succeed, but we can't hide that we're wrong on several occasions. It happens under varying governments. Because that's what the Foreign Minister said in his statement, that we must not believe that as outsiders we can create stable and peaceful societies. However, as an open and extroverted democracy, it is not unnatural for Norway to contribute where we have unique competences and where relevant. However, this does not mean that Norway should in every context accept to play a central role in international peace and reconciliation initiatives. Sometimes we make sense to play the second violin or not to participate in the orchestra at all. It is important that Norway maintains a good and close relationship with Israel. It means enhanced cooperation in several fields. It is therefore positive that the former vice general, Colonel Eli Bar-On of the Israeli army, has been in Norway to learn the Norwegian defense of good war morals. The Israeli army is known for holding a high ethical standard and has good training for its soldiers in how to behave and follow the rules of war. As the Advocate General of Defence, Lars Morten Bjørkholt, emphasizes, Israel has a system that has been tried out. They're up in situations all the time and are in war from time to time. That's why it's interesting to see how your system is. This form of cooperation should be extended. The note written by central U.D. diplomats and leaked to the media should contribute to more transparency about the dangers that threaten our continent and our civilization. It's positive. Some have otherwise claimed exactly the same thing over a longer period of time without the media being significantly influenced. But I'll let that lie. What is now important is that we all put rhetoric aside and focus on finding solutions that are sustainable over time. We need a global asylum system that takes care of different legitimate national interests and at the same time ensures protection for those who are fleeing from war and persecution. A wise way to do this would be to establish one or more major permanent UN-funded asylum recipients in the geographical neighbourhoods of asylum seekers. Jordan may be one option, but countries in Africa and Asia should also be able to be present. People arriving at a European country claiming asylum will be transported to one of these receptions. Such a system will eliminate all smuggling of people into Europe. At reception, asylum applications — as opposed to today — will be dealt with in accordance with the same criteria. Everyone with a real need for protection is granted refugee status and is protected in a safe country on a temporary basis. All UN countries must accept refugees according to size, population and economy. The funding will take place using the same funding key as in the UN. All national treatment of asylum applications ceases. The leader of the Labour Party has called for a more active foreign minister on refugee issues in a quotation from a radio debate: foreign policy has become domestic policy, and I miss the foreign policy dimension. This sounds nice and grand, but to most people this only seems like fun rhetoric. It would therefore be interesting to find out what concrete foreign policy measures the leader of the Workers' Party wants the Minister of Foreign Affairs to put in place to meet the challenges. There is no art to criticize. What we need are solutions – solutions that work and respond to the challenges Europe faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e256	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in the broad and good way forward, the foreign and security policy situation is now demanding. Europe strives to deal with the great influx of migrants and refugees. At least as important is what can be done in the long term to remove the deeper causes of millions of people fleeing from war, conflict and poverty. The wave of refugees and migration towards Europe has tested the EU and European cooperation. Retryed failed at this time. This was seen when last year the EU decided to distribute 40,000, then 120 000 asylum seekers. Making a decision is one thing, another is implementing it. Of the 160 000 asylum seekers to be distributed by land, only a few hundred have actually been accepted. Decisions are being sabotaged. Narrow national interest thinking has caused a number of countries to torpedo a solidarity solution. This shows how international cooperation can fail if its own interests are determined by foreign policy. Foreign policy can not only be interest-based; it must also be value-based. Without it, we find difficult common and viable solutions to today's global challenges. The EU is now negotiating with Turkey an agreement to improve the control of migration, stop the life-threatening shipping and remove the profit opportunities for cynical human smugglers. The agreement we now see the outlines of might help in that direction, but there are still a lot of unresolved questions and too soon to pass any judgment. Some perfect solution won't be easy. Norway must contribute constructively to a solution that brings an end to today's chaos. As the Foreign Minister correctly pointed out, there are important driving forces behind the migration crisis in the war and the collapse of state structures in the Middle East and North Africa and the lack of international crisis management. Underfunded aid apples have their price. Demographic trends in these regions are also taking place – with population growth, poverty and conflict. This reaffirms an old experience: The crises cannot be met with only short-term emergency help. It shows the migration crisis. It shows the poverty and conflicts behind the refugee dream. It shows epidemics of ebola in Africa and of zikavirus in Latin America. In all of these cases, long-term development work is needed to remove the roots of the problem. People must be freed from poverty, from education and from justice, from health services that prevent epidemics, and from freedom and democracy instead of oppression and discrimination. Norwegian development policy represents such a long-term line in the fight against poverty, in legal work and in the work of peace and reconciliation. We have to call about that. By increasing the aid framework through the budget negotiations last autumn, we will also increase the humanitarian aid framework and other assistance in crisis areas. It gave greater freedom of action so that Norway can now make large and necessary contributions to refugee assistance in the vicinity of Syria and around Syria. The will of the world community to provide assistance must not be taken for granted. Those who looked at narrow self-interests first always find reasons to cut aid and use it for their own interests rather than to fight poverty. Unfortunately, some countries have cutbacks in aid transferred to poor countries and crisis areas. Finally, let me agree with the Foreign Minister when it concerns the importance of stability in the north. There are critical aspects of Russian policy that require Norwegian clarity. But we must be equally clear and consistent when we are to further develop the good neighbourly cooperation we have with Russia in the north. It is important both for business development and common security, for responsible fisheries management, for the environment, for shipping, search and rescue – and much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e284	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an additional and good statement last week. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the most important task for all governments is to secure their country and its citizens. In a few weeks, hopefully, the next long-term defence plan will be submitted to Stortinget. It is one of the most important things we should handle during the period. Norway will be able to meet many different serious challenges to national security in the years ahead. The defense must be able to perform several tasks and secure us against a wide range of targets. This debate comes back to us as soon as the government has presented and fulfilled its commitments in defence policy. The Foreign Minister pointed out that we are now seeing a rivalry between major powers in Syria. Last month, reports include: Reuters at Turkey asked for allied ground forces for military operations in Syria. The tense situation that one today has between Turkey and Russia should not make it any more relevant for Norway to send ground forces to Syria. The Central Party has opposed Norwegian military contributions in Syria. The lesson of the last decade of the war on intervention is that if one does not have a perfectly clear plan for what to achieve, how to achieve it, and how to ensure peace in the longer term, a non-useful military intervention should be used. We have a warning against participating in a conflict where we might appear to be taking sides with a party, in a conflict with religious undertones. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his speech that the WTO is being challenged by several major trade agreements currently under seal. The WTO, as the governing body for the regulation of trade, is in Norway’s commercial policy interest. I find it exciting that several government councils seem to be expressing the TISA and TTIP agreements, something strange. The Foreign Minister would also use the power of his speech to draw a scare image for Norway if we were not part of the TTIP agreement. We now see major changes happening, both in European and American policies. The last two days ago it was clear that Bernie Sanders, very surprising to many, has won the nomination election in Michigan. One of the things he has highlighted clearly is the fight against uncontrolled free trade. It's not that weird. A growing number of Americans feel the consequences of a trade policy in which the relocation of jobs has been seen as unproblematic, even close to a law of nature, and under all the freedoms of trade policy. Detroit is one of the cities where frustration is great. While the former offered 1.8 million people in Detroit, there are probably 700,000 there. Where people in the past received both well-paid and safe jobs in industry, people are now facing unemployment or unsafe and poor jobs. Last year's Nobel Prize winner Angus Deaton warned in DN last December that something dramatic was going on. He concluded that democracy in the West was threatened by increasing economic inequality. This is what Deaton said: «John M. Keynes said that monetary policy was like dropping a brick on a rubber strip. Nothing happens until it suddenly spreads back and hits you in the face. The same could be the case with inequality: you can stretch and stretch the knit, but one day it snaps back. The problem is that we don't know what will happen to us." On questions about what he feared, he said: ‘I’m worried about the extreme inequality. It can go at the expense of democracy. Very rich people can take over democratic processes at the expense of others. There is a risk that it may happen.’» The Central Party and I have shown resistance to the new trade agreements that are being negotiated. Our concern is that the agreements will create greater economic inequalities, and, at least equally important, that they will narrow democracy. We as the populace must see society as a whole. The community does not consist only of a number of individuals who make use of their own consumption in a free market. Managing natural resources, capital and labour as all other goods, where the value and supply are only governed by free market forces, has previously proved to be flawed, with disastrous consequences. History shows that this paves the way for the emergence of authoritarian regimes. Today we see trends in this. The Foreign Minister stressed the importance of a society based on trust and cohesion. The trust we have in Norway, both between each other and between the most populous and most populous, is the most important resource we have. It is beyond doubt that societies with small inequalities are societies with higher trust among citizens. Globalization causes a strong pressure towards major inequalities. While owners of capital get more investment opportunities, ordinary workers experience harder struggles for jobs and negative pressure on wages. What is our most important remedy for major inequalities? It is the Community of the Member State of origin. This community assures us best through good public services where everyone has access to equally good schools, just as good leagues, osb. Norway must under no circumstances enter into trade agreements that pressure the liberalisation of services that each individual citizen is securing today. If we allow this, Samhalets-Noreg will gain weight, which we will all lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e324	I would also like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good and very broad account, the sail if it had enough a gloomy undertone. We who have then been asked to comment on it in five minutes, with such a large width, have a demanding task – especially when posts before me present protectionism as the great means of achieving peace, freedom, equality and growth, which I do not believe works on any of the important indicators. But let me begin: instability in the Middle East I think maybe I've been talking about from here over the last decades as one of our main challenges for peace, but the chaos, the disaster and the difficult conditions we're seeing now, it's been a long time since we've seen some contours of it. And the key to achieving stability — in many places — is to start working with stability and peace in this region. Much of the key also to world peace lies just in this area, but it may never have been as demanding as it is right now. The world has become smaller; a war in a country relatively far away from us has an impact on Norway. The world has become smaller, and refugee disasters from a war also affect Norway. What I think is frightening developments are the attitudes that are awakened to life in Europe, both in extreme movements and in that we see countries that look back in history to their own greatness, to cultivate it in the marine image for a new time. We see it in Hungary, we see it in Poland, we see it in Russia, and we see it in Turkey. I think this is frightening developments. It is important to maintain the humanity and focus on the individual's rights that Europe has built its values since World War II. It is important that the values are maintained, that they are kept under pressure, and that they remain alive – even when they are put under pressure from nationalistic movements, as we see in many countries. Something else that is important in order to achieve stability, we do through sustainability goals, and I disagree with the representative Tybring-Gjedde: sustainability goals are the very things that concern people on the streets in their everyday lives – growth, wealth, equality, climate and environment. It's about people's everyday lives. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that poverty, human rights and climate through the sustainability objectives should be important processes into the programme, and we in the Left will try to lift them into the work of our enlargement programme in the future. I think the sustainability targets are a good delivery gel to follow if we're going to be able to stand for the values on which it's important to build our society. Climate is perhaps the most demanding challenge facing us as a world society right now. The world needs green economic growth, both to lift people out of poverty and to create a society that does not destroy the environment around us. At this point, work on poverty reduction, food security, is important to also look at climate change. So to my mind, the only thing I see was little mentioned in the Foreign Minister's statement, namely the situation and equality of women. This is going in the wrong direction in a number of countries. In Europe, too, we see that gender equality and the situation of women are going in the wrong direction. I think it is more important to raise women's situation, gender equality and women's rights higher on the agenda. These are the first to come under pressure from the nationalist movements that we are now seeing grow, and we see that women's rights are important to keep up, because the challenge is that many countries, both in Europe and elsewhere, are heading in the wrong direction. So that's my challenge to the foreign minister, to raise the situation of women higher, because I think that's one of the keys to also solving the other challenges. It's clear that in the fight against poverty, it's helping women out of poverty that's the key to getting the whole community out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e341	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an analytically strong presentation. With the gloomy undertone, it might be worth starting by saying that 2015 was probably at the same time, at the same time, the year was nowhere in history that was best for the average world citizen. In fact, large parts of the world’s population are experiencing progress. It is also worth reminding us that 2015 was a success year – an unexpected success year – for international diplomacy. The Paris Agreement at the end of the year came after several other multilateral successes, which we have had little of over many years. It's so true that it might be worth investigating a little bit closer to why it went quite well in some processes in 2015. But it was also the year when it grew up – I will call it – a fundamental turmoil in me and I believe in many others in the situation around us, both because some long-term, very serious challenges threaten us, and because our own continent appears with less stability. That's what I'll call fundamentally globalized or implemented globalised challenges. The country of the world has long been interdependent on each other, but I believe it is being clarified and seen in a completely different way now. Because of technology, and not least the dissemination of technology, people in poor countries can see the enormous global differences. They can get information about what's happening, whether it's about relatives or other refugees in Europe. And we can more clearly experience the consequences of the major global challenges related to refugees or to climate. The major challenges associated with the refugee or migration situation and the climate also have a special effect on the fact that the causes are fundamentally outside our direct control. It's really big global challenges. We may be used to thinking about the world that poor countries in the south depend on rich countries in the north, but in both of these challenges, the image is reversed. To solve those challenges, we are when it comes to climate, totally dependent on the large emissions countries in the south, and when it comes to refugees, for example. The Middle East and other parts of the world. The third thing I want to stress as part of this turmoil is that things we might have taken quite for granted in our own continent, now are really challenging and problematic. We experience what I would call a long-standing economic and social crisis, with increasing inequality in Europe and mass unemployment in many countries, so that a now can ask questions about the whole foundation of that model, perhaps the most important progress in our continent in the last century. We have probably also grown accustomed to a stable relationship with Russia, which is now being challenged. Not least are fundamental democratic values in decline in important countries in and around Europe after decades of equally clear progress. Such a situation demands how we think about our own foreign policy and the will to develop it. Let me briefly take four points that I think are important. The representative Halleraker said that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firm, which has been said in all foreign policy debates I have participated in. Then he added: even though the world is changing a lot. There's at least reason to ask yourself questions about the logic of it: the world is changing, but we're standing firm. One might take the opposite starting point: the world is developing, and we need to evolve. No one wants total stamina. Nobody wants to turn everything upside down. But if the mindset is evolution, I think we might get a little bit further than with the mindset, everything must be like before. It's good with broad agreement about some things, but where it's thought to be too equal, it's thought to be too small. So maybe we should turn the "mind set" from the fact that consensus is superior, to getting good opinion breaking expands and develops us. Everyone in a difficult situation is thinking about their short-term interests and saying they're safe, and it's necessary, but it's more necessary to fight down the long-term causes of the problems we're now seeing, whether it's climate, refugee situation or war and conflict. Difor might say that idealism is the new realism. Our long-term interests also depend on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e358	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. In these days, Norway’s willingness to stand up for concrete and fundamental human rights is being tested. It's also a foreign policy test. European Heads of State now want an agreement whereby all refugees who come alive to Greece via Turkey are to be returned, including Syrian refugees of war. In return, the EU will collect the same number of Syrian quota refugees from Turkey. The government has been in favour of this, but the UN High Commissioner for Refugees says, as you know, that collective expulsion of foreigners is prohibited under the European Convention on Human Rights. If we support human rights violations, we are also responsible for them. So I ask the Foreign Minister to comment on whether Norway will actually work towards collective expulsion and automatic return of refugees to third countries. The nuclear agreement with Iran limits the nuclear threat and opens up new opportunities. Here the government deserves praise for its contribution to the agreement. At the same time, I must deplore the non-binding compromise formula that we just got about Norway's view of an international ban on nuclear weapons. Norway should be able to say clearly that a nuclear-free world is our goal. The Greens disagree that a long-term objective of the abolition of nuclear weapons should be a threat to NATO cooperation. The most important prerequisite for peace between people is that people have an acceptable and safe basis of life. The most dangerous consequence of climate change, species loss and ecosystem destruction is that it can weaken the life base of humans, and it can force really large numbers of people into migration and conflict. Therefore, economic and political investment to preserve the life base of the future is one of Norway’s most important sources of international security. The notion that Norway is doing a service to the world that continues traditional oil dependence and increasing consumption is wrong, and the notion that the rest of nature has to be sacrificed in order to achieve short-term climate gains is a misunderstanding. An effective and modern Norwegian foreign and security policy must do the opposite. The UN's new sustainability goals signed by the government summarize the global objectives that Norway's international industrial policy, security policy and interest policy must also contribute to. For the rest, sustainability objectives are very similar to the policies of the Greens. By 2030 the world will, among other things: have addressed climate problems, given all access to renewable energy and reconstructed terrestrial ecosystems, and not least have ensured sustainable production and consumption. I mention that the Stortinget will soon debate the Greens' proposals on sustainable consumption in Norway, and it is still possible for the majority to take this proposal seriously. The Greens have long argued that we have to leave the bottleneck that the Oil Fund is not a political instrument. By so little winding up coal investments and opening up investments in green infrastructure, this fund is now on a very exciting and positive path. With the Oil Fund as a strategic foreign policy instrument, Norway can contribute more. We need to invest in sustainable development and remove fossil investments, and we need to start making money to make the world safer. A concrete signal will be to make Norwegian energy assistance renewable and fossil-free. The government has, as is well known, cut hard into Norwegian clean energy assistance, while super-corrupt regimes still receive oil aid. It is interesting whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs can comment and confirm, if appropriate, that clean energy assistance will be given priority to oil aid in the coming state budget. Another signal would be news of safety policy in the north. We need to outline a north-eastern policy in which living resources in an Arctic under violent climate change are fundamental premises, not expectations of oil and gas. Of course, a good start would be to spend 650 million. kr to develop Svalbard into a renewable society, and not in old coal mines. The climate agreement from Paris is far more than an agreement on climate change. In practice, 195 countries agreed that the world must create a renewable future. It is a very powerful signal to the world’s business and investors. It's not a change that happens tomorrow, but it can happen significantly faster than traditional analyses suggest. Norwegian foreign policy must be taken over. Norwegian foreign policy will then also equip itself best to build on the positive developments that we see, along with dark clouds, on the international horizon.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e380	Thank you for many good speeches and a good debate so far. We are facing a more challenging foreign and security policy situation than for a long time. What remains is the values that govern our foreign and security policy, values that have helped us get where we are today. It's human rights, it's the UN Charter, and it's our active international commitment. There is no doubt that we are challenged by the migration crisis, violent extremism, destabilization in our neighbourhoods, a more unpredictable Russia and a shift of power in the established world order. The seriousness of foreign policy therefore marked the year’s foreign policy presentation, which has also been pointed out by several. The seriousness also justifies the launch of the so-called Choice Project. We started the Road Selection project because a rapidly changing world requires innovation and debate on foreign policy. We need to be better at distinguishing between our vital, important and other interests in foreign policy. Security policy is becoming even more important, and we need to cultivate central friendships and alliances. The choice project gives us a good opportunity to create the necessary debate in Norway on the new foreign and security policy image. It will also end with a big message next spring, which will form the basis for an important debate in Stortinget and a clarification of any adjustments we have to make when the world changes, but based on the values that have brought us to where we are today – and that is far. At the same time, I was aware in my presentation that 2015 gave us more examples of politics and that patient diplomacy brings results. With new and ambitious climate agreement, nuclear agreement with Iran, progress in the World Trade Organisation, decisions on new sustainability goals and progress, among others. in the Colombian negotiations, the longest-standing armed conflict in Latin America, shows that we also have positive results that should inspire us in other areas as well. In meeting very demanding challenges, these are examples of the world’s country’s ability to come up with common solutions. We need more of that in 2016, not least in our own continent. It should not be surprising that this year's presentation began in Europe. It is in our interest that the EU should be as united as possible, that the United Kingdom should stick to the EU, and that Europe should take greater responsibility for its own security. Europe is facing historic migration challenges. A broad approach is needed, and both countries of origin and transit need to be targeted. In the past, the EU has proved itself to be strengthened by crises. We are closely monitoring developments in the EU's response to the refugee crisis and, last but not least, negotiations between the EU and Turkey. The EU-Turkey meeting in Brussels this week was important, and the EU summit in Brussels on 17 March is becoming even more important. The rapid implementation of an agreement is crucial, but also very demanding, and important clarifications remain. We must stand together in solidarity with Greece. Only last night, 2 000 new refugees and asylum seekers arrived from Turkey. Norway has so far contributed 240 million. kr to remedy Greece’s refugee crisis. We need to strengthen cooperation with Turkey. It's been five years since the war in Syria started. In Syria, it looks like the truce is holding. The peace talks must be rolled on, and it must be built on that fragile unity. But further progress is not given. We must not give up, even with new setbacks. Norway takes responsibility and plays an important role in the fight against ISIL and for peace and stability in the region, with political, economic and military instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e395	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e398	There's been a lot of discussion lately about nuclear weapons. Let's add the process discussion to the page. I think the Minister of Foreign Affairs is wise to assume that the majority in the Grand Duchy is not satisfied with how the Minister of Foreign Affairs has followed up the humanitarian initiative. There is also a majority in the Stortinget for bans as a final objective. How will the Foreign Minister ensure that the will of the majority of the population is reflected in his foreign policy priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e403	Several speakers have been involved and stressed the importance of government involvement in this area. Norway was among those who supported the Iran Agreement by contributing to the transport and transport of uranium. We have taken initiatives to verify disarmament, not least nuclear weapons, together with the United Kingdom. We're a driver to realize the vision of a nuclear-free world. The decision that is now being taken in the Grand Duchy, on which there is broad agreement and to which the government parties have also joined, provides a good basis for further involvement by the Norwegian side – in line with what the former government stood for, and in line with what this government has stood for. The challenge has been that other elements have been brought in, including: On the part of Austria, which we have not been able to support, but now we have a broad basis to follow up on, of course, in international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e408	It is a paradox that the increase in the influx of refugees we have had in Europe has led to the actual decline of the framework we are using in the fight against poverty. It's because we have a code on what's to be reported as assistance. It would be very unfortunate if one in connection with military purposes had the opportunity to pick up money from aid frameworks – money that would have gone into the fight against poverty, education, health, job creation and work for justice instead of being spent on military purposes. Unfortunately, smaller changes in OECD legislation were made by the donor community's side too few weeks ago, precisely in that direction. So we know that the Foreign Affairs Committee so late as in the context of the budget said that Norway should counter the erosion of OECD legislation. My question is what does the Minister of Foreign Affairs do just to ensure that we do not get a hollow out of that legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e413	Norway is free to use assistance in the areas that we ourselves want. It is true that some adjustments have been made in the OECD/DAC Code – former development minister Erik Solheim has commented on this in the Norwegian press and believes that there are changes he is in for – as proposed by the OECD, the DAC Secretariat. It opens e.g. to provide assistance for military personnel to protect women and children and for military transport aircraft to be used to obtain emergency assistance if this is more reasonable than commercial aeroplanes. But we have to explain this to Stortinget in connection with the budget, and if the Stortinget does not want Norwegian aid to take advantage of the opening that has now been given, we will of course comply with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e418	The World Bank is among the actors who have determined that economic growth in agriculture is more than twice as effective to reduce poverty in developing countries as growth in other sectors. Norway has made major investments in climate-smart agriculture, agricultural women, agricultural research and market access for small farmers through the Climate Change Strategy. The strategy was completed in 2015, and it is important that the work done there is taken forward. The agricultural sector plays an important role both in job creation, economic development, climate change adaptation, nutrition, the role of women and, of course, in long-term food security. The agricultural sector also plays a key role in the prevention of humanitarian crises and famines. In the follow-up to the Paris climate agreement, the agricultural sector will also be important. Norway has the capacity and competence to continue this work. How will the government ensure an ambitious continuation of work on food security, climate-smart agriculture and agricultural climate adaptation in Norwegian aid and development policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e429	I agree with Mr Navarsete that sustainable growth in agricultural production and food production capacity in many developing countries is essential for poverty reduction. You can't skip that level of development. 60 pst. of the non-cultivated but arable land in the world, which has not been exploited, are among others. in Africa. Roads and infrastructure are also needed to exploit these areas, but these are things we need to look at how we can support them. Increasing food production in Africa and other developing countries, which are necessary to meet their own needs, will also quickly raise questions about how to export what they produce. We are going to contribute to increased food production, but if this is effective, then of course developing countries must also be allowed to sell it, as we sell Norwegian salmon for 70 billion. kr annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e436	I was actually going to ask about equality, because I'm worried about the trends we see internationally. The representative Tybring-Gjedde made many points that I really don't think are government policies, so I'm not going to go up there, but it's about a certain relativism in terms of human rights, which I think is interesting to hear the foreign minister's comments on. I fully agree with all the criticisms expressed against Turkey, especially in terms of freedom of expression, which are very alarming for the time being, and which I sailed to meet the Turkish authorities on Thursday. But we see just as alarming developments in Russia, as one gives expression to is a country that you should have understanding, form alliances and have stronger cooperation with. I think it's important to have a thought that keeps from country to country, and principles that keep from country to country – can the Foreign Minister explain a little about Turkey-Russia's relationship with human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e443	I share the representative's concerns, including with regard to women's rights, where we have experienced in recent years that we need to stand up to prevent backwards in international negotiations. The representative can be quite sure that Norway has this as one of its main priorities. If we're going to develop, we also have to bet on women. Women must enter the labour market, as well as women's rights in terms of reproductive health and sexual rights, are important for this government. So as far as relativism is concerned, we presented our own press freedom action plan not long ago. We see both in Russia and in Turkey that freedom of the press is being restricted, and we have to say that. We can't take that easy. Freedom of the press, freedom of expression and assembly are fundamental rights in a society, and Norway will always be on the road and raise these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e450	I'd like to commend the Foreign Minister on his willingness to compromise in the nuclear-weapon discussion we've had in the last few weeks. The Right Party and the Progress Party have now moved significantly towards the majority – we are going to participate in the so-called open UN working group and follow up the humanitarian initiative – and they are behind a legal framework. After all, it is a step forward and a sign of willingness to compromise. But I want to ask about the agreements between the EU and Turkey. It's too early to judge an appointment that doesn't yet exist. There are several good things that can come out of that agreement, but there are also several worrying points, especially one, that have received very strong criticism from the UNHCR and a number of organizations: it is that refugees who move on to Greece from Turkey are automatically sent back again, without any individual assessment. That point asserts that all of these will be contrary to international law and to the right of asylum – that one cannot try their application. My question is: will the Foreign Minister and Norway work to change this point to be in line with international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e458	In the first theme of the line, the representative only chose to establish something about the nuclear policy. I don't think we're taking that whole debate right now. I am pleased that we have come up with a wording that I believe is also in line with our NATO commitments – not least it is important now in front of the Warsaw Summit in July. With regard to the EU-Turkey agreement – which is now being further worked on and which, hopefully, is to be concluded on 17 March – it is important. The flow of refugees and asylum seekers we have seen, the wave of migration, must be managed by the EU and Europe. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you that the Summit Declaration of 8 March stated that the further negotiations on the details of the agreement with Turkey should, of course, focus on respect for international and European legal obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e465	I was going to ask about the same question as the representative Solhjell. I think we have to continue the discussion in Stortinget if it is not quite clear the answer we received from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on that question. Instead, with reference to the international agreements signed by Norway, both the one in Paris and the agreement on the UN's new sustainability targets, I would like to re-examine the issue of Norwegian energy aid, where it is therefore a major problem that clean energy aid has been cut heavily. I would like to ask for the Foreign Minister's comment on how to plan energy aid for the future. Will fossil aid, oil aid – Oil for development, where we already have our own problem in Angola – continue to be a priority, or will there be a development where pure energy aid will once again become a major Norwegian priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e472	There were a lot of elements here. I just want to correct first a word I used in reply to the representative, Mr Solhell, who also refers to the first thing that the representative, Mr Hansson, mentioned: what the EU decided was that the agreement to be reached should respect international and European legal obligations. I think I said "pay attention," but it's "should". That is the framework for the further work of the European Union. As regards energy and renewable energy, it is also an important climate issue. After all, the government is stepping up its efforts on the UN Climate Change Fund, which the Prime Minister fixed last autumn. We've stepped up our efforts to phase out fossil fuels. In the case of Norwegian energy aid, it is in the process of being transformed. There were parts of it that we didn't think worked so well, but this will be an important element also in the further efforts of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e484	In the foreign policy statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that: ‘The government is systematically working to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.’ And he adds that it works: ‘concrete, long-term and multi-track’. This week, the Stortinget has helped to guide this work by bringing together clear targets for nuclear disarmament. It is the government's task to conduct the ongoing foreign policy, balance developments and look for opportunities to care for Norwegian interests and promote values on which we build our society. The government has great freedom in how it makes its choice of instruments, and it has worked well in our political system. Great freedom, of course, but it is in our democracy a freedom under responsibility. The responsibility is that the policy must have a majority in Stortinget. In the field of nuclear disarmament, the majority has been clearly expressed over several years: the majority have set the goal of a real total ban on nuclear weapons. It's a goal it's been a broad consensus on in wide circles for many years. Yes, in fact, Presidents Gorbachev and Reagan were the first to formulate this goal in 1987 in recent times. It's a goal it's fully possible to strive towards while stressing that the way there has to go through balanced disarmament. It is a goal that it is fully possible to combine with the wording of NATO's strategic concept, which is also clear on the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons while the alliance has a nuclear deterrent strategy as long as such weapons exist. I have been surprised that the government, which, by its accession, said that it would continue the work of the previous government in this area, has been so difficult to take this majority position on board. It has been a special sight to see how special representatives from the Right have argued against this goal and how they have characterized the attitudes of other parties and not least the motives. But with this week's attitude from the Foreign Affairs Committee to the communication on global security challenges, we can leave this as a bracket. Now it is clearly stated the objectives and direction of the majority, and in a proposal that is even unanimous, in a way that is not misunderstanding. I'm glad that the Right now relates to this majority, and perhaps the biggest change is that the Progress Party also joins. That is how we have made progress. Let me just repeat: the majority of the population supports the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament in the context of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, including a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. That's the majority's view. And all parties say that it should be actively working to contribute to the progress of disarmament, including an active follow-up to the humanitarian initiative Norway hosted in 2013. We expect concrete initiatives in the follow-up. In the proposal, all parties agree that Norway should play an active role in the elimination of nuclear weapons and work long-term for a legally binding framework to achieve this objective. So the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been given drag and direction for this which must be the government's policy in this field. The size is expected to be kept informed about the follow-up. The world is troubled – it's not new. The good report from the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew a picture of this. Foreign policy must be able to combine a fixed line and direction with flexibility in the choice of instruments. The Foreign Minister’s presentation provided a good overview of the challenges, and this debate confirms that there is a broad consensus on foreign and security policy in Norway. The Labour Party sees it as a great value for our country that we can achieve such a broad consensus, as in our neighbouring country policy, in the northern regions, in the face of the great challenges that result from the war in Syria and the great instability in the south of Europe. The representative Halleraker today called Norway a ‘democratic surplus nation’, if I heard him correctly. That's a good idea. It's a term you can decorate with, but above all, it's a term that binds. I would like to commend the government for the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria, which enters into a fine Norwegian tradition by taking responsibility and initiative. That line must continue when Europe is to find solutions to restore control of its external borders while at the same time living up to Europe's humanistic values and obligations in the face of people fleeing from war and persecution. When it comes to disarmament, we know it's about long-term goals. Just long-termity must lead to that we don't let go of the roof, push the problem aside, and leave the bosses of us that the task seems too big. On a smaller scale, we overcame this position when we agreed to negotiate an international ban on anti-personnel mines in 1997 and a ban on class weapons in 2008. A total ban on nuclear weapons is a larger, more complex and probably more long-term task. Now the government has a clear march ground for Norway’s contribution to achieving this goal. The speakers of the Labour Party have addressed various parts of the Minister for Foreign Affairs’ presentation. Finally, let me get into one of them, and it concerns our relationship with Russia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that we should stick to our Russia policy. And the way he says it, I agree. It shall be predictable, consistent and clear and – let me add – Norway can stand up for it – that it is also long-term and recognisable. There are two sides to our relationship with Russia when we look at this over time. On the one hand, it is our alliance, our anchoring of security and values with neighbours and allies that gives us an anchor and a back cover in the handling of a neighborhood. It is that Norway and Russia have been at peace for a thousand years, perhaps we are the only neighbour that Russia has that they have not been in armed conflict with. We're going to nurture our alliance relationship, make defence relevant and oppose and say from when there are developments in Russia there's reason to protest against, and they're many, unfortunately. Then it is that a cooler political relationship in the north did not arise as a result of developments in the north. We're used to this. Global trends — this time Ukraine, Syria and developments in Russia — also affect the atmosphere in the north. Part of Norway’s long-term Russia policy is also to be able to deal with this. The tension arose from a different location, but it affects the north. But the ratio is that in the north we still have a low voltage and the ability to solve problems constructively. It brings us to the second part of Russia's policy, namely neighbourhood policy. There's a lot of problems these neighbors have to do. We have managed to solve them for many years – during cold war and in time after the cold war. We've been solid and long-term. One characteristic of it is that we, the times that it has been possible, have seized the possibilities and tried to use the space that has been in the neighbourhood relationship. This was the case in the 1990s with the establishment of Barents’ cooperation – a much closer bilateral cooperation. And if we take this limit that worried us last fall, it's like about 4,000 people, Norwegians and Russians, crossed that limit in 1990, but now we're up to 200,000-300,000 in what's getting closer to a normal neighbourhood relationship. It's positive. And we were able, when the opportunity arose, to solve 40 years of divisional discussion by dividing disputed areas in a way that was in great contrast to the way Russia has solved other neighbourhood problems. I think I noticed a new tone in the Foreign Minister's statement on this, which more clearly underlined the importance of: ‘practical cooperation and constructive dialogue with Russia, where possible. This is particularly important in the north.’» The Secretary of State has the Workers' Party's support in this position, that we are able to balance criticism of internal social relations, stand by our allies when we respond to violations of international law, while we know that we are well served to find solutions in the neighbourhood relationship. It showed the crisis at the border in the harvest. In the Arctic, coastal states of Norway and Russia actually have a wide range of common interests to ensure international law, maritime law and orderly development in the north. We are a neighbour of a great military power with great military concentration. It also requires, once again, that we can balance the ratio as an ally. It'll take care of our safety. That we are following developments — that knowledge is a unique advantage Norway has in our foreign policy profile. I would like to stress that the government has the Workers' Party's support in developing the neighbourhood, even in difficult times internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e533	First, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a broad and very good presentation. It was a statement of great seriousness. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is asking us to put the steels on us for further deterioration. It makes a strong impression. As far as the European perspective is concerned, the words of former EEA Minister and EU Minister Helgesen from November last year remain valid: ‘European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU. But the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater.’ There are parallel crises that are all demanding, but, as a whole, constitute a major challenge for Europe as a whole, because we are so closely woven together – economic crisis and conversion, disintegrating states in a vulnerable circle around Europe, a more aggressive and unpredictable Russia, ISIL and terror in the heart of Europe. Not since World War II has the refugee situation been more serious, with 60 million people fleeing. 125 million people need humanitarian aid because of war, hunger and poverty. The wave of migration exerts pressure on the Schengen external border and Dublin cooperation. Against this backdrop, there is an internal picture of conflict between EU Member States, with the risk of political polarisation and the strengthening of extreme forces. This is serious, because it is about the future of Europe. The world has become so small, crises and conflicts are no longer far away, but characterizes our neighborhood. Distance is no longer a guarantee of safety and safety. Migration is described as one of the megatrends of the 21st century, driven by war, conflict, climate change and economic inequalities, globally and in Europe's neighbourhoods. Nearly 50 000 arrivals only since the New Year, in particular to Greece, constitute a significant pressure on the external border of Schengen. Control of the limits and measures limiting uncontrolled inflow becomes essential to prevent collapse. At the same time, international law is deficient and the Refugee Convention is closely adapted to the situation. Therefore, it is good for the government to take an initiative to review the International Agreement Agency, preferably as part of Nordic cooperation. Success in dealing with refugee and migration challenges is about contributing to political stability, growth and development in other parts of the world, in countries that have an impact on our own security, and today generate refugee flows. There is a need for a change in development policy, with a greater degree of concentration on vulnerable countries. And we must continue to contribute heavily humanitarianly. I would like to take this opportunity to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs a great deal of credit for the leadership he personally takes – the last time on the initiative of the Syrian donor country conference. The response to that appeal was formidable 12 billion. U.S. dollars in one day. I would also like to stress the importance of the military capabilities we contribute with, inter alia. in Iraq. But it is not just the migration crisis that is demanding for Europe now. When one of our closest friends and allies, the British, reconsiders their relationship with the EU, Norway is following closely. Let's hope for continued British EU membership after June 23. It will be in the interests of the European Union and Norway. The United Kingdom is an important partner. We share many values and views relating to economic issues and the internal market. The United Kingdom, with its resources, is also important for European foreign and security policy. Immigration issues and integration, as well as defence and security policies, are issues that strongly and increasingly concern people. Many feel insecurity and uncertainty, and that is something we need to take seriously. Norway is dependent on Europe. Together with the United States, these countries are our most important friends and allies. Europe's challenges are our challenges. Lack of management of the situation in Europe will have consequences for Norway. A weak and fragmented EU will weaken Europe's security. The common basis of rights and obligations binding on all EU Member States, the basis for freedom and growth in Europe, is now the issue. It will require a lot of political leadership in Europe in the near future. We need a lot of good political craftsmanship. The Foreign Minister was very clear. We are to secure Norway, safeguard Norwegian interests, and Norway is to contribute in a community. The situation requires political accountability and the safe management of Norway. We must avoid self-interest, increased protectionism and national egoism in Europe. We must be with our closest friends and allies at a time when international law and our fundamental values – democracy, the rule of law and human rights – are threatened. In a short time, the size of the population will address the global safety challenges presented in June and, as a follow-up, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced a new big message of what is growing concern, including migration, the spread of terrorism, development in Russia, etc. implies for Norwegian foreign policy. This roll-out message, together with the forthcoming long-term defence plan, will provide the basis for very important road choices in the future. Although in many ways a dark picture has been drawn, I interpret the Foreign Minister as a conditional optimist – we must not lose faith that politics works, in the future of Europe, on the wear and tear of the universal values on which we build our liberal, open democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e569	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good presentation. Very much of what the Council of State took up was very important and not difficult to agree with. The National Audit Office has come up with crushing criticism of Norwegian aid policy and lack of impact measurement over very many years. That is why it is very good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed that there is work on reforming and concentrating development policy, reducing the number of beneficiary countries and aid agreements, and increasing the evaluation and performance requirements. We have a great responsibility for the humanitarian disaster that is taking place in Syria and neighbouring countries. I have been in the Progress Party for over 20 years, and we have always been in charge of increasing the appropriations for emergency and disaster relief. That is why I was very happy when the foreign minister announced that Norway would now spend 10 billion. kr for humanitarian aid to Syria and the neighbourhoods. This high amount of money has never previously been granted by Norway to a humanitarian crisis. The year that has passed has been very demanding in Norwegian foreign policy, and it is likely to be even more demanding in the year we have now entered into. But, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned in his statement, a lot of positive has happened in recent years. Especially if you look back, in the last 20 to 25 years overall, and perhaps in the future, towards the next 20 to 25 years, and take on the optimistic glasses, we should be a little satisfied. This is especially true when we look at global value creation and economic growth; world trade has increased sharply, the number of people living in extreme poverty is halved, child mortality is almost halved, more people receive education, more opportunities – all this even though the world’s population has increased by about half. Two billion. Of course, a strong commitment to research, innovation, entrepreneurship and free trade in large parts of the world brings such positive consequences. It gives better and newer technologies in all areas, which gives most people in the world a better life, and evolution goes fantastically fast. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement, Norwegian foreign service is often called on because it is known to be able to deliver. I fully agree with that. As the Council of State said, this competence is built up over time. That is why I have to come back with a little heart attack, considering that several foreign stations are now planned to be closed. I understand that we are living in tight budget hours, and that we may get an even tighter budget for 2017, and I am sure that the Foreign Minister has fought hard when a strict finance minister has asked him to cut his budget. Priority needs to be given to this, and I agree that we are not going to have to wind up any Norwegian foreign stations – even if it may be when you are in the middle of crises and troubled times, which are now, that it is important to have a good and stable foreign service, and that Norway is represented in important and strategic places in the world. A foreign station has several functions. We want the EEAS to take care of Norwegian interests, not least business interests. I have recently considered how the structure is in the foreign stations, and how to measure diet-benefits, without really having received any good answers – yet. I have also been observing and questioning for a very long time, in fact over several years, the interaction between the Norwegian Foreign Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Innovation Norway, which the Ministry of Industry is close to, and the Norwegian industry. Does it work optimally? As a fresh member of the Foreign and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom, I allow myself to challenge in this field, perhaps also since I come straight from the Food Committee of the United Kingdom and have followed with interest the work Innovation Norway is doing abroad. In the course of my research and search for satisfactory answers, I have often been told that how Norway organises its foreign service is the responsibility of the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is not something we at Stortinget should interfere with. All right, that's the foreign minister's responsibility, but it's not quite true that the Storting and the big business representatives don't have an opinion about it. I quote from a debate in Stortinget on 5 December 1997: ‘This is not a practical question as to where the Government chooses to place an embassy, this is a political issue of first rank.’ And on the other hand, « the Foreign Affairs Committee, and hence the Stortinget, has made significant progress in the location of embassies and the handling of questions of embassy. [[...]] I was even the case rapporteur for the establishment of the Norwegian Embassy in Addis Ababa." This was said by Erik Solheim on 5 December 1997, and the Grandfather confirmed this. Now I see that time is running out, but it might be interesting to get some general considerations about this from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e603	The Minister for Foreign Affairs addresses many important issues in his presentation to the Stortinget, among others. The importance of Norwegian aid and its importance for the development of many countries in the world — a little less under this government than under the previous, but nevertheless many. Assistance provides health, education and hope for a future for many people in the world. Nevertheless, aid that we and other donors contribute to, for small amounts to be calculated in comparison with the money that disappears from countries as a result of capital evasion and tax evasion. These are issues that we also know from Norway, how many companies, among others. Google, Facebook and others, through profit-change and thin capitalisation, move large values out of Norway. But large values are also being moved out of developing countries without taxing them. It is estimated that for every penny we give in aid, ten dollars goes out of the developing world in illegitimate capital movements. Of these 5 consist of pst. of money moved out of corrupt leaders. 35 pst. are purely criminal acts, but the biggest problem is multinational, legal companies that, through different mechanisms through tax havens, bottle these countries for huge sums and thus also for the ability to build a future for their own inhabitants. I remember from the 1990s that the Young Right often stated what was desired through the rather striking slogan ‘Trade – not Aid’. It is not as striking in Norwegian: ‘Trade — Not Aid’. I'm not going to accuse the Minister of Foreign Affairs of thinking it's just trade. I record that he is very concerned about assistance as well, and I do not believe that assistance is a solution alone. On the contrary, I believe that trade is important. But it must be quite clear that without addressing these issues, these capital flows, one will not get the results of an increase in trade that could have been achieved. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that we had a breakthrough in the demanding negotiations on funding for development in Addis Ababa. That's good, because it's all about, among other things, to address these problems. One of the problems also described in a new report by the ActionAid organisation is the result of innovative work on tax agreements in developing countries. ActionAid has gathered and examined more than 500 international tax agreements where developing countries are a contracting party. According to the report, developing countries miss out on large potential tax revenues every year because they say they have more power than is necessary in tax agreements with richer countries. In particular, the report highlights that multinational companies can reduce their taxes in low-income countries because they have accepted restrictions on how much they can charge from companies in source taxes, taxes on interest payments and taxes on dividends. ActionAid also believes that developing countries with tax agreements with OECD countries have more of their rights in those agreements than in agreements with other countries. The report further argues that the agreements seem to be getting worse rather than better given the opportunities left for developing countries. This is serious and not in line with the developments I believe we neither in the Labour Party nor in the Government want. What we can do alone, but also with several other countries, is country-by-country reporting. It is a powerful tool to address problems of ever-lower tax contributions from multinational companies. Land-by-country reporting makes the corporate structure and economic activity of the countries in which the companies operate visible. Nevertheless, many people feel that these processes are not going fast enough, and here on the Stortinget, we have been completely united in asking the Minister of Finance to present an expanded country-by-country reporting to the Stortinget. Nevertheless, we see that what is sought is implemented by the Minister of Finance as a result of the OECD's BEPS processes, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, is not exactly what the Stortinget has asked for in the past. So my wish is that the Foreign Minister continues to fight for good tax agreements internationally, but that he may also be involved and contribute a little to pushing the Minister of Finance at home so that we can have a positive development in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e616	For a small country in a dangerous world, the security and defence part will be an essential element of foreign policy, perhaps most importantly. In recent years, violations of the territorial integrity of sovereign nation states have been re-emerged in Europe. Problems that many thought had been solved once and for all, and that could safely be left to the historians' domain when it comes to studying what had happened before, have become reality again. They have returned in a way that we have not seen since the early postwar period and during parts of the cold war. This has naturally triggered a general uncertainty in neighbouring countries, which also influences Norwegian foreign policy. We are pleased to hear that the country's foreign policy is so strongly emphasising that these threats must be addressed by continuing a defence, security and foreign policy that is predictable for all, both friends and possibly unfriends, and where there is internal coherence between all parts of the policy. I have also heard the small marginal comments that have come from the opposition in this matter – from the Workers' Party – and I ask myself what other than minor audits are what they really have, apart from this more demonstrative proposal by the old SF character who is under discussion elsewhere, about the nuclear-free zone. The situation suggests that Norway, together with its alliance partners, increases attention in its own neighbourhood. We need to strengthen political cooperation in the Nordic region. The civil, economic and research activities in the North and the Arctic also need to be strengthened in order to assert Norwegian sovereignty and promote Norwegian interests. Developments in the north are characterised by increased interest, geopolitical, and climate change, which properly also create opportunities. We all have the opportunity to contribute to the fact that the northern regions remain a peaceful and stable region. Cooperation in the Arctic is based on mutual recognition of interests, sustainable resource management and development of cooperation bodies. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stressed in his statement that stability in the north cannot be taken for granted. Russian strength building and intensification of exercises in the north call for vigilance. The military strategic balance in the north is shifting in our disfavor. This must be met with a consistent and predictable line from the Norwegian side. During 2016 Arctic Council will enter its third decade. Cooperation between Member States is well functioning and contributes to ensuring continued stable development in the region. Norway and the other coastal states of the Arctic Ocean have special conditions for dealing with the Arctic Ocean. Low tension in our corner of Europe requires realism and vigilance in order to enforce the sovereignty of the Nordic countries across all parts of the region. It is therefore gratifying that those of us who participate in the more organised parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council find that the interests of the Nordic countries converge in almost all areas. In this picture, I would also like to highlight the Baltic countries, which are now increasingly applying to their Nordic neighbours in order to strengthen economic and cultural ties, and which are pointing forward and beyond the defence policy cooperation they are involved in in their accession to NATO. And we can also point out that the Nordic region has actually been atomic free in approx. 25 years. It is related to the collapse of the Soviet Union, which also meant that around the Baltic Sea there were three new independent nations without nuclear weapons. In this way, it can be said in history that the collapse of the Soviet Union has contributed more to the removal of nuclear weapons from land than all the later efforts of the SFs and the SVs to emphasise unilateral Western disarmament. The historically new contact and cooperation that provide the best basis for making the Baltic Sea a sea of peace is there. So it is a paradox that the countries — apart from Denmark — that are closest to us are not yet part of NATO. But these are encouraging signs of strong public opinion on enhanced defence cooperation in Finland and Sweden. In return, these countries have been more interested in linking themselves to political cooperation in Europe. Norway also has more to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e635	The inter-country dependence is now becoming more evident, said Bård Vegar Solhjell. The consequences of the war in Syria, the unrest in Afghanistan and the hopelessness in the Sahel countries are moving into Europe and Norway through the floods of refugees. It is demanding to provide solutions, but one thing is certain: the solutions are not in each country trying to shield itself from the consequences. It is only through cooperation, joint action and solidarity that it is possible to address the problems and solve the root causes. Protectionism and national populism are not the answer; it is the opposite of a threat. This also applies in the field of trade policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points to the challenges posed by new, regional and multinational trade agreements, not only for the development of the WTO system, but also for Norway and EFTA, which are struggling to conclude agreements with important countries, particularly in Asia. At the same time, we see that the debate on free trade agreements is often based on misunderstandings and suspicions. We see it around TTIP, TPP and TISA. We should do something about that. The size should be tightened in the process, as the European Parliament is in the EU's negotiating processes. The EU Trade Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, and her staff have monthly meetings with the European Parliament's Trade Committee, INTA, as well as regular meetings with case rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs. There is a need for more transparency about such negotiations at home as well. The relationship between government and the Storting is different from that between the Commission and the European Parliament, but this should not prevent us from getting more transparency, contact and better involvement of the Storting in such negotiation processes. The Government has a trade-policy liaison body with representatives of civil society, the NHO, trade unions and trade and development policy organisations. These are e.g. have been regularly informed of the TISA negotiations, which are now the hot potato. The crash has been given a general briefing on TISA in Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In addition, we are referred to oral and written questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to travel interpellation debates for information. This is formally seen after the book, but in the ongoing debate on these important issues, there are many allegations, both about what the government should have put forward in the negotiations, and what framework such an agreement will provide for our political space of action at national and local level. It would be a strength for the ongoing debate if we created a forum for a more continuous contact between government and growth that allowed for a more detailed insight into the process in the process. It would make the representatives of the public better aware of participating in the ongoing public debate. It would give the government a better overview of where the framework for an agreement has to go, if it is to be ratified. We should consider setting up a separate trade policy selection here at Stortinget according to the model of the European Committee. The committee could be composed of members of the Economic and Social Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. Such a committee should be a consultative body for extensive negotiations such as TISA and the WTO, but also for other major free trade agreements negotiations and for EFTA trade policies and strategies. A further argument for closer and more continuous contacts between the government and the rise in trade policy issues is that current trade agreements have evolved to be far more extensive than in the past. Now it is less and less about tariffs and more and more about broader agendas such as investment, standards, environmental considerations, employee rights and development elements. In this way, it is not satisfactory to continue a practice where new free trade agreements emerge from time to time as trolls of ash in the Storting and are sent through the nutrition committee with a few brief committee comments until plenary, where they are most often sent for ratification, without a single word on the way. Trade policy is too important for a country whose economy and thus work and well-being rests so heavily on just trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e655	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e658	The Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement makes it clear that international security policy has a direct impact on Norwegian defence policy. The rapid changes in security policy we have seen in recent years show how important it is always to give priority to defence. It's too late to build up the defense when we really need it. I think the Foreign Minister said it so well and so clearly in his presentation, and I believe this must be of importance when we are to further develop our defence for the future. He said, ‘A strong national defence must be the basis of security policy. We must give priority to the most important thing; the defence of ourselves and our obligations to NATO." I could not agree more. A few days ago, we were a delegation from the Foreign and Defence Committee at the Cold Response military exercise in the North-Tronde Team. In addition to Norway and NATO, 13 nations participated with 15,000 soldiers. We met the Panserbattalion and its supporter during the exercise, the American Marine Corps, which was clear that military cooperation between Norway and the United States in a NATO context was of great importance. Exercise and unification are important both for the building of alliances and for being a preventive and deterrent military power. I am pleased with the new consensus on nuclear weapons in the Committee, as we all know how important nuclear weapons are as NATO's stabilising power factor. The government's decision to participate in the new rapid reaction force and cooperation within NATO's Northern Group is important for the capacity building of our and our allies. Through such cooperation, we are better equipped in crisis situations, with military support for civil protection and for combating terrorism. Norway depends on alliance cooperation with NATO and the United States, with pre-stored military material, and close ties with Norway are of the utmost importance, but in order to be a credible ally, we need to be able as a nation to provide a minimum defence to ensure that we can keep Norwegian territory until we receive support from our allies. With today's security policy challenges as a backstop, we need to keep upgrading the defense, which we've built up for a number of years. We must now – even in the difficult economic situation we are in – show willingness to invest in our own security and stand up for our allies by strengthening the defence of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e682	Norway contributes heavily in Europe, both economically and politically. Europe's challenges are our challenges. We contribute within everything from energy security via migration solutions to the strategic use of EEA funds. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for so emphasizing in his statement our good relationship with the European Union and our allies in NATO. Norway is a solid alliance partner. The United States is our most important ally, and NATO is our security anchor. I see that the opposition, among other things, knows that The representative Gahr Støre, emphasises nuclear policy. I want to commend the government's non-proliferation work. It is good that now is an agreement that takes care of our NATO obligations, and that the ban line – which would have undermined the Non-proliferation Agreement for nuclear weapons and raised doubts about Norway's alliance obligations – did not have a majority. It's still the way that NATO will have a world free of nuclear weapons, but as long as such weapons exist, the alliance will retain the capacity for nuclear deterrence. Europe has its economic challenges, and Europe has its borders challenges, but perhaps the most frightening is that the very European idea is challenged. There is cause for concern about the state of Europe. The system is under pressure, and what we like to see as common and fundamental European values is not so fundamental anyway. Europe was a goddess – so irresistible that Zevs, dressed like an ox, abducted her. At the moment, not everything is what it should be; parts of Europe are easy to resist. Perhaps Zevs had let today's Europe go in peace. We need open societies with tolerance. We need an open and tolerant Europe. Unfortunately, we are not a member of the EU, so we can influence from the inside, but we can stand up for our values, against nationalism and for the liberal rule of law. We are closely linked to the European Union economically, culturally and politically. It is therefore in our interest that the EU remains a defender of European values. The EU is also important to ensure political and economic stability in our part of the world. The European Council agreed in February on an adaptation agreement for the future relationship of the United Kingdom with the EU. From a Norwegian point of view, the outcome of the negotiations seems to be a reasonable compromise, which should serve both the interests of the United Kingdom and the EU. It is in Norwegian interest that the United Kingdom remains in the EU. Norway and the United Kingdom share many views, including the importance and further development of the internal market, including in foreign and security policy. There is an open question as to what would lead to any ‘Brexit’. The question is whether the EU will be able to cope with such a shock. What we can say with certainty is that it will lead to long rounds with an unexplained situation for our main trading partners. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe — in a Europe that is now being challenged, both from the inside and the outside. In the past, the EU has proved itself to be strengthened by crises. It is essential that the European Union also succeeds this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e703	I want to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for the thorough presentation he made. Then it is that after hearing a statement and reading it again, it becomes a little bit so that as an opposition politician, you look for a light and a lamp to find it that you might disagree with – or an interpreter of what is being said. There was one thing I thought about most after I heard and read the statement, and it was that I like the Foreign Minister better when he's in the visionary track, when he talks about how we can eradicate poverty by 2030, which he's been clear about, or when he presents his solutions on how we can handle it. But in the troubled world we live in, I am also fully aware that one must have the more sober foreign policy in a presentation. But I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is focused on the choice message. I heard him say several times that foreign policy has become domestic policy. In the statement he also said – and I quote: ‘We need to know what is in Norwegian interest. We have to distinguish between vital, important and other interests. We must realize that we cannot do everything." When a reader, it is easy to interpret the foreign minister there when he talks about road choices, that he wants to choose Norwegian interests over values, but I choose – even when I read the ten points – to interpret the statement there that the Foreign Minister wants Norway to play an important role in solving the international challenges, but I am waiting for the message to be excited. It is easy to argue for e.g. increased assistance or commitment to assistance in certain countries, because one will prevent refugees, and in many of these countries it is essential that we use assistance to prevent countries from collapsing, and that there be humanitarian crises and wars and conflicts. However, we must not forget those countries that are not at risk of sending refugees to Norway – of course, we need to help those countries, because the focus must be on helping those who need it the most. With regard to point seven, at the end of the statement, on reforming and concentrating development policy, I believe that the majority of this room has made important and good changes in development policy, and we need to do even more to solve the poverty challenges. However, when reforming a policy area, it would have been appropriate to fulfil what is stated in the Sundvolden Declaration that one should have a ‘development policy statement’. Rather, it should be a separate message of assistance, not because one does not know the whole of development policy, which is so incredibly important, but in the case of such a large field with so many billions – and when one also writes that one should reform – I think it is important to make a separate message there, for example. is clear that it is the poorest that should be in focus. And when you're discussing business development, it's not, for example, Innovation Norway to make a distribution of who will receive the funds, but it is those who have the most competence to promote development, those who focus on not becoming ‘white elephants’, but on affecting the world’s poorest. It's Norad who makes such kind of decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e721	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very thorough and very intelligible presentation. Yesterday, the Right Judiciary in South Varanger visited the Garrison in South Varanger and the Border Commission. Then we met a border commissioner and a garrison who guarded the Norwegian border against Russia in a professional way, in line with the policies of the long lines, and there was no idea of anything that could be perceived as escalating measures by our neighbor in the east. That was comforting. As has been said in the debate, foreign policy issues are a major factor in the domestic policy situation. We had a temporary weapon here in the country that lasted 14 months. It was linked to the international threat picture that is now believed to be a little lower than it has been in the past, but we should note what the head of the E-Service said in the Focus – the Annual Report of the Intelligence Service that was presented – that there is still reason to believe that the threat of terrorism against the Western world is still present, but there is no reason to believe that there is a concrete threat of terrorism against Norway. Why is this a terrorist threat to Norway? – Yes, because ISIS has declared battle against the Western world and the Western values. The PST commander said a few years ago that as a society we have failed in the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism. It is totally unsustainable that young people have the impression that they can fight for their political and ideological goals through the use of bullying terror. That is why the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism is still so important. The government has presented an action plan to this effect, which has raised international awareness – 30 concrete actions, which are now being rolled out, including: through guides to municipalities, guides to parents who are concerned about the behaviour of their children in terms of growing sympathy with these cancers. The majority now has a proposal for treatment where the government proposes to penalise the participation of the Nordics in international conflicts that are not linked to the armed national forces. Finally, I would also mention that the government has actually granted 17.5 million. the actions of the Action Plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, and has allocated funds to a number of prevention projects around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e738	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good account, which also includes trade. Increased world trade is one of the strongest drivers of economic growth and prosperity development. Trade contributes to activity, jobs and promises people out of poverty. Economic growth in most of the world's economies seems to be lower than expected in the future. At the same time, major technological changes are taking place in energy, transport and communication. Increased automation, the emergence of Big Data and the sharing economy will provide great growth opportunities in the future. The preservation and strengthening of the WTO is Norway’s primary commercial policy interest, but consensus and joint solutions are demanding, and a look at the emergence of agreements between countries where Norway is not involved. We must work for multinational agreements to build bridges between countries, with a desire for cooperation, growth and development for all. Exports of services are important for the Norwegian economy and employment. Globally, services and trade in services are a central part of economic infrastructure, and the world economy depends on well-functioning service markets. Norway already has a very open market in services, and market access is largely based in the GATS and EEA. TiSA is a multi-country agreement on trade in services that is now negotiated between 50 different nations, which together accounts for approximately 70 pst. of world trade in services. Negotiations spring from a lack of progress in the WTO and from ministers asking WTO members in 2011 to consider alternative ways of increasing trade in services. There is a need to adapt international rules to developments since the entry into force of the GATS in 1995. For Norway, which has an open economy, participation in international trade agreements has resulted in a higher level of prosperity today than we would have had without these agreements. There has been a lot of talk about TTIP and TiSA threatening Norwegian interests. In the case of TTIP, these are negotiations that take place between the EU and the United States, and where Norway is not involved, but will nevertheless be involved via the EEA Agreement if there is an agreement. With regard to the TiSA negotiations, the agreement will increase predictability and facilitate the export of services to other countries, which will contribute positively to economic growth and employment. None of Norway’s trade agreements force the authorities to privatise or deregulate e.g.: public services at national or local level. Neither will TTIP or TiSA. In these negotiations, it is up to each country to decide which services it will undertake to allow foreign enterprises to offer and under what conditions. No agreement is legally binding until it has been discussed, debated and voted on here in the Grand Duchy. Trade agreements are an opportunity to shape globalisation through international cooperation. The aim is to maintain and further develop a framework for trade that makes the greatest possible contribution to Norwegian value creation, while contributing to global value creation and sustainable development. We want to contribute to a world where human creativity, abilities and hope for the future can be realized through cooperation, knowledge development and trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e764	In the statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs draws a broad picture. He talked about both positive and demanding features of developments in the world today. Among other things, he raised the decision on new yield targets. At the same time, he devoted much of his time to describing the migration crisis. I agree that we need to expand our perspective when we're going to find the roots of the migration crisis. I think we need to see the migration and the bearing force measurement in context. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to important demographic trends in the Middle East and Africa. Developments in many of these countries are marked by population growth, poverty and conflict. It will be very demanding to meet the needs of a population that will double until 2050, when Africa will have about 2 billion people. We must distinguish between vital, important and other interests, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs decided. Education is important. But nothing is more vital than food and water! One of the sustainability measures states that by 2030 we will eradicate sulphur, achieve food security and better nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. In 1974 Henry Kissinger, the former U.S. Secretary of State, promised that within ten years no children would go to bed in the evening. Now, so many years later, about one in three people in sub-Saharan Africa is defined as undernourished. In several of these countries, it is up to 50 pst. by children under development due to malnutrition and malnutrition. In this area, food production has been reduced in recent years, and there is little room for expanding agricultural land in many of these countries. At the same time, uncertainty about future prices on the international food market is high. It is more important than ever to strengthen the ability of each country to produce food if supply on the international food market is to be reduced. Numbers from the United Nations Organisation for Agriculture and Nutrition indicate that Africa has imported about a quarter of its food needs over the past few years. In recent decades, the area expansion in Africa has stopped. With increasing population density, existing food production is being divided into more and more. At the same time, the earth will be depleted. It is urgent to start a development in which agricultural productivity is increasing, based on a resilient management of the earth, which benefits the whole population – including future generations. The centre party has a number of years in order for Norway to increase its agricultural aid. There's a lot we can do. We can provide increased support for agricultural research. We can strengthen cooperative or peasant organisations in developing countries. We can provide support for new cultivation, fertilisers or other means to increase agricultural productivity, and we can support women, who account for the vast majority of food production. The world is committed to eradicating this by 2030. Food in the stomach is a human right, but it's also a very clear commitment to development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e783	The next speaker is the representative Ola Elvestuen, who just came running into the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e786	It's almost so I have to breathe again after running up the stairs. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his presentation, which I think was very comprehensive and good this year. What I want to highlight is the importance of the Paris Agreement, which, of course, also puts the commitment of the international community in the years to come in a completely different perspective. Now it is no longer about getting an agreement, now it is about following up an agreement. It is important that Norway, too, immediately start working on how to strengthen this agreement in the years to come. We often talk about climate change reaching first those countries that are not responsible for emissions. That's right. But it is also the case that climate change also hits us first, as it is in the northern regions that changes are taking place as quickly as possible. It is important that Norway also has a special perspective in the north, in order to bring about both the dramatic changes we see, how this affects those living in the north and how to develop a business life in a sustainable way, while maintaining the low tension in the areas of the north today, and having a policy – which was also presented in the statement – especially towards Russia, where we are able to maintain a level playing field, while at the same time having clarity and firmness as regards the violations of human rights and the violations of international law committed in Ukraine. So a little bit about the relationship with the EU. Earlier in the debate, many people have mentioned — and it is also common to point out — that EU cooperation has problems and that it will be possible to have a period in the future where it becomes weaker. At the same time, however, there is a strong tendency – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also says – that when the EU is put under pressure, cooperation is also strengthened. The current situation is also part of Norway’s process. We are ourselves in a process where we want to link ourselves to the EU's climate objectives, and we need to follow that cooperation to achieve it. We depend on getting a common European solution to the refugee situation that we see in Europe. Norway must contribute to both maintaining and strengthening Schengen, while meeting the issues. Not least when we are going to address the problems in the Middle East, it is absolutely essential to have a united Europe, of which Norway is also a part, in order to build up under a long-term solution, and where we need to stick to democratisation as the ultimate goal, also in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e801	It is economic growth that has been the main factor in the fact that the vast majority of people have been able to work out of poverty in the last 15 years. The Chinese saying "Give a man a fish, and he has food for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he has food for the rest of his life." sums up well the importance of measures that last. The aim of job creation in developing countries is to create lasting changes and thus also to aim to eliminate the need for assistance. Freer cross-border trade and investment are essential for growth and development. It is central to facilitating foreign investment. That is why we want to increase trade with poor countries. We will focus on industrial development, investment and economic growth in our countries of cooperation through a modern and broad instrumentation. Only in sub-Saharan Africa, 120 million young people enter the workforce in the next few years. It could be a major safety challenge and could have consequences for the migration pattern if these young people do not find hope for the future and a decent job. At the same time, we know that nine out of ten jobs in poor countries are private enterprises. The majority of future jobs should also come from the private sector. The private sector creates jobs and generates tax revenue and well-being. The EEAS shall be more a tool to promote Norwegian business interests abroad. We want to strengthen cooperation with private actors. Public-private cooperation triggers both competence and capital. Both parts are needed in developing countries. Norway, for example, is a partner in the Global Partnership for Education, which provides private capital in addition to traditional assistance. Norfund is an important instrument, which, together with private partners, invests in developing countries. Such efforts are important to strengthen development policy in the future. Only until 2020 will 600 million new jobs be needed globally, according to the ILO. At the same time, there is a shortage of skilled labour. When 58 million young people don't go to school, it's not just a violation of a fundamental right, it's also a serious obstacle to development. Poverty in low-income countries could have been reduced by 12 pst. if all children could read and write. In order to get young people into work, reduce unemployment and secure economic growth, education incentives are a good investment. Therefore, it is important that Norway takes a global leadership role in education for all. The government doubles the focus on education during this ageing period and in particular strengthens the focus on education for girls and women and for children in crisis and conflict to prevent lost generations. The government raises vocational training and higher education. It is important that countries themselves can have the opportunity to ensure access to skilled labour and get people to work. The effort to create jobs should be comprehensive, involve existing programmes such as Oil for Development and have a strong link to industrial development and investment. Together with a strong commitment to education, it will contribute to sustainable assistance based on individual resources and the ability to create their own livelihoods. The objective of development policy must be to provide a basis for economic growth, prosperity and independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e822	There is reason to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good but also very serious statement to the Stortinget. The backbone that characterizes this debate and the reality we live today is also very important for the foreign policy grips we take. At the same time, it is important to remember that very much also goes in the right direction: poverty is falling, and we are now able in the world to reduce climate emissions even though we are growing more. There's a lot going well. War and unrest now characterise large regions around our own continent, leading to a wave of migration. Then it's worth remembering that we live on the continent that was the source of two world wars. We were the continent where millions of people were driven away, threatened with extinction or killed in war. One of the crucial things to avoid history repeating itself here in Europe was to find a whole new way of working together. The EU has represented cooperation which means that the boundaries previously defended by tanks and weapons are now freely crossed by students, culture and goods in a way that makes cooperation on our continent work better than ever before. But new challenges are challenging cooperation. And one of the things that is important is that we contribute, even though we are not an EU Member State, is to keep the linkages of the European solidarity project together. Although we are now facing major challenges, and although there is a pressure on migration, well-being and unemployment, it is absolutely essential that we do not go at the expense of the important cooperation that characterises Europe. We're a small country, but a small country can do a lot too. A small country that we've been used to having a big neighbor in the East, who has had different regimes and has always been relatively unpredictable, but we've been keeping peace with them for very many years. Nevertheless, some of the most important successes of Norwegian foreign policy are NATO. It is that we, as a small country, have been very clear and very predictable in our alliance policy and in the commitments of NATO membership. It also means being clear to our allies in the alliance that we support the strategies and objectives set by NATO. I am very pleased that we have a government, a foreign minister and a defence minister who have been very clear that the commitments and strategies that NATO has laid down stand for as long as this government sits – and I hope it does for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e836	The representative, Tetzschner, said something interesting about the work that was about disarmament, was an old SV proposal, and there was a proposal for an atomic-free zone in the Nordic region. I remember that, actually, but it's a long way back in time, and that's not what we've been talking about here in Norway and internationally in recent years. This is Obama policy; it is reflected in NATO's strategic concept: a world without nuclear weapons – long-term objectives. We have to work towards it, we have to have a goal. In particular, there was a former Republican Foreign Minister in the United States who said that without such a goal, we have no direction, so we're working for it. So Tetzschner says that nuclear weapons are gone from the Baltic states because the Soviet Union has collapsed, and that's good. Well, it would have been. One of the major challenges in the field of disarmament, in the field of nuclear weapons, is the great presence of tactical nuclear weapons. A large, uncontrolled number of Russian tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe in different countries — not Baltic ones — and on ships creates uncertainty. This is one of the reasons why we need to focus on nuclear disarmament, also for our safety, and that the next round must also include tactical weapons. There was something Norway and Poland took the initiative a few years ago, precisely because of security. It again underlines the importance of having attention to nuclear disarmament. Then I listened to the representative of Stensland, who said he was happy that the ban did not get a majority. It is possible he edited his post before the setting of the Storing Communication on global security challenges came. The question of bans has a majority, and it is therefore in the position to be debated later in the Chamber, but it is worth recalling here that the majority – and the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy are important, also for a government – indicates that ‘a large number of people support the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament on this basis and within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement NPT, including a long-term objective of international ban on nuclear weapons’. It is clear from that announcement, and once a majority in the United Kingdom has expressed itself in this way, the representative of Stensland and the government can be sure that this is what the Stortinget will also closely follow up on the government's work on disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e845	Although much in the world around us has gone in the wrong direction, there are also some points of light that should delight us. IS, one of the most vicious movements we've seen since the war, has been a powerful defensive move. One of the claims we often hear in the debate on IS is that bombing doesn't help, or that we can't bomb ourselves out of this problem. Such statements become a simplification very quickly. Everyone understands that Islamist extremism cannot be combated only by bombs, drones or missiles, but no one can deny that it also helps with military power, whether it is direct or indirect, through training. During World War II one could get back, said that this is a problem that others can tackle, you can't bomb or shoot out of this problem, but someone had to do the same work. It's a little alarming to hear that e.g. The centre party is against the Norwegian contribution to the coalition against IS. There are also others on the left-hand side who think the coalition shouldn't get involved at all. They probably have their reasons for saying that, but you can't get away with any very basic facts: ISIS has now lost over 40 pst. of the territories they once occupied and terrorised in Iraq. It is not due to awareness campaigns or condemnations, but it is because they simply cannot move into the open without risking extinction from above. The fact that IS is on the defensive is also due to a determined and courageous effort by, among other things, Iraqi and Kurdish ground forces — some of them trained by Norway — fighting on the front line and morally on behalf of others. There are also credible reports that IS has lost much of its financial strength. This too can be attributed to targeted air attacks by the coalition, in particular against the supply lines and the oil installations. Even the most intimate pacifists among us must be able to recognize this effect. Another clear result of the bombing is the weakening of IS leadership. There are a number of leadership figures that have been taken out in the last year, and even if they are replaced, this creates instability in the sequences. There is nothing good in a war, but there are good reasons to fight a war. We should be grateful for the efforts of our allies in the United States, the United Kingdom, France and others, who once again take the heaviest promises in the fight against a wicked man who threatens our world order. I am also proud that Norway has contributed from the beginning of the coalition against IS. I know I speak on behalf of more people in the Right when I say that we are ready to support any escalation of efforts if the government wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e856	There's an indirect recognition in holding an post that brings Jonas Gahr Støre back to the hall. I'm glad. As for the interpretation of my post, I would say that the fact that I stayed with was that these initiatives taken from the Storting in the hope of pushing on the country's foreign management something other than what has been agreed in the past, I believe that I can be incorporated into a pattern that we see the Workers' Party has turned on under its current leader. It is that we are engaged in free-hand drawing on issues where we should strive for as broad a national consensus as possible. It's not that we can all, based on an ideal discussion elsewhere in society, distance from nuclear weapons as phenomena. It would have been better for humanity if they hadn't been invented, whether they're tactical or strategic. What I have pointed out is that when you choose to take this up and focus on it, there is a criticism that also goes on in what context you choose to promote it – almost from the floor of the Stortinget, without it being part of a major investigation. I believe that we also see it in other contexts where the Workers' Party has had great consequences. I recall this jubilee at the Labour Party national meeting last year, which was a clear 'pull' signal in immigration policy when it came to getting refugee flows especially in our direction of the world, at a time when information flows freely. We've had a discussion about this in the past. I believe that also the opposition, especially when you lead a party as large as the Workers' Party, has certain obligations to take care of the unit that we should have in order to be perceived predictable internationally, that we do not split into verbal exercises, and that we can avoid such free hand drawing as I see the Workers' Party's new foreign policy line bearing more and more impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e865	It seems that this debate is moving a little back and forth between the EU and nuclear weapons. I'll bring the debate back to the EU question, and then someone will probably come after me and talk about nuclear weapons. There has been an argument here that Europe cannot stand together without the EU. I think that's a truth with great modifications. You can shout as much as you want about the EU and how important the EU is, but the truth is that the people are increasingly sceptical. It is the elite who are calling for the European Union, the elite, the bureaucrats in Brussels, who are calling for the European Union. The people are not calling about the European Union, they are not seeing the result that everyone else claims to have. When you have to teach your own people how good the European Union is, you have bombed completely. The task of the politicians is to represent the people and not to teach them. And those who believe that it is the European Union that preserves peace in Europe should see a little more around them. It is NATO – and the US guarantee of peace – that preserves peace in Europe, and if a European country attacks another European country, we know exactly what will happen – that will not happen. It won't happen. That is what will ensure peace in Europe. What the EU contributes to, as many claim, is increased trade. I do not believe that there will be any increase in the trade of having a bureaucratic device in Brussels. I actually think that people will deal with each other because it makes sense to trade with each other, and because you need each other's products. Then you will pay for it, and you will act. You can look at the car industry in Germany – I doubt that people will stop buying cars from Germany because they disagree in Europe. I don't believe anything in it at all. A Coal and Steel Union was established after World War II. That made sense at the time, because there was a lot of aggression, and there was a lot of unfriendliness in Europe. That unfriendliness doesn't happen. There are other places in the world than in Europe that we have the challenges now. When we discuss the European Union as if it were a peace organisation, we are completely blocking the time we live in. We live in 2016, and we should take that on board. In fact, national states are something. We have different cultures, we have different traditions, and we have different history, and it's important to take care of. That's what people feel is threatened, they don't recognize their neighbors, they feel that it's going to be segregation, and they don't recognize themselves more and more in their own country. Then the elite can shout as much as they want the EU to be good, but when the people say no, you should listen to it. We are not a member of the European Union, but we are becoming ever closer to the European Union. I think it's wise to build on the state of Norway. It works, it's what people want, and there's nothing nationalistic about it, there's nothing dangerous about it. That is what our great poets and writers have always said — they have boasted of Norway and have been proud of Norway. We can continue to do that without talking about the EU and international cooperation in Europe. We work great alone, we do what we want to do, and we want to deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e880	I experience it as necessary to take a brief review of the background of the nuclear discussion that has come now, because this comes neither from the floor of the Stortinget nor from SV, but from the initiative of the previous government to a large conference in Oslo in spring 2013. As far as I can see, this was at the time supported by a mass accumulation, at least I didn't find anything that Right went against it. The humanitarian initiative led to nuclear negotiations being based on the totally unacceptable humanitarian consequences of the use of that type of weapon. A change in the starting point from what a traditional one has had, putting it in the center. At the same time, a method that a number of countries have been successful in dealing with both landmines and class weapons: bringing together a wide range of countries that want progress to drive the process forward. I noticed that the new government when she joined said she would continue the work on the humanitarian initiative. And then we're here today, because gradually and quite quickly it became clear that the new government behaved something different and did not fully follow up on this. Thus, the Left, the Center Party and the SV put forward a proposal in Stortinget last spring that led to a plural comment that explained that there are multiples in Stortinget for a long-term goal of a ban on nuclear weapons, which you have to work with in a balanced way. It's now repeated that it's such a plural number. But what is now a joyous news is that, through conversations – as it has been known in the media, with some noise around the right – between the Labour Party and the Right, there is also agreement on a very broad basis for furthering a policy behind the whole of the Storting: that one should work for a legal framework, that one should participate in the UN process and the open working group and continue the humanitarian initiative of the conference in 2013. The most surprising thing in this debate is that while the Foreign Minister is calling for reconciliation – I have before him rose for his holding here – and will take this further and work seriously on it, there are other representatives from the same party, Right, who use the opportunity to deal with the great crowd and come up with strong criticism of the many who have expressed their long-term goal over time. So I feel it necessary – if not here now, but until the setting is debated – that the Right will clarify this: Will the Right work with the majority of the population, which I have experienced a turn against now, or will they work against the majority of the population, as several representatives have called for here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e889	I think it is necessary for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify to his party colleagues what is in the broad compromise that lies in the position of global security, where we hope that a unanimous collapse can at least take a decision that we want to work long-term for a nuclear-free world through a legally binding framework. It will be a historic decision that obliges the Minister of Foreign Affairs to work very concretely and much more actively than he has now done for this. I think he has to do a job to get his party traps and his government partners to get support for this decision. What is quite obvious is that the former government said that a long-term goal of a ban is a goal. It was precisely on the initiative of Peter Gitmark of the Right, who wanted to clarify whether then Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre would take concrete steps towards an international ban on nuclear weapons, for example. The Americans said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he wanted a total ban as a final goal. And when the current government said that they would continue the nuclear policy of the Stoltenberg government, it was quite obvious to us that it also meant a long-term goal of a ban. On the one hand, it is difficult to say that something is going on, when the majority of the majority of the population is quite clear that it still involves work on a total ban as a goal. Does this mean abandoning the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy? No, rather the opposite. It has now been very active, by both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the head of the Workers' Party, in creating a broad majority that can create upliftment in this Chamber. Does it involve detailed regulation of the government within the government's prerogative? No, of course not. It is not such a decision that binds the government to vote for one or the other in particular. UN. It is a very clear decision of principle. But I believe that when we get broad decisions in the Storting, the parties involved in such a broad settlement should strive to anchor it in their parties. I hear here, from some right-wing representatives, that this is used as a systematic attack on the leader of the Workers' Party. No one has helped to build as much in this matter as the Labour Party leader in recent times. If we are about to take a decision on a binding framework for a world free of nuclear weapons, it will be a historic decision, and it is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister to follow up such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e900	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde felt there was little reason to put his trust in EU cooperation to solve the challenges we are now facing in Europe, especially around the refugee crisis, because there is now an increasing scepticism against the EU in the population, and it is not seen that the EU is delivering. The problem is not that the EU does not deliver, the problem is that the Member States fail the European Union. They meet in Brussels, agree on measures, return home and do not implement them. It's a challenge for any cooperation. It may be that, through EU cooperation, we are not able to achieve the necessary measures, but when Christian Tybring-Gjedde says that we can build on the nation state, and we want to work together, the question is: if you think that the European Union is not succeeding or disappearing, how are you going to get structures to work together, where the countries are doing what they have to agree on, instead, as we now see, to protect themselves from the consequences as best they can? At the same time, the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde provided a solution to the refugee situation, that the UN is responsible for creating refugee camps in the neighbourhoods. It is, in part, a system that works, but how does he imagine that countries will first accept to pay the bill for the costs and, secondly, to accept the refugees that the United Nations says they should accept? They should, as far as I understand, be distributed approximately proportionally to the population. How do you imagine that it will work through the UN system, where the commitments are much less than in EU cooperation? So the representative Tetzschner said that the Workers' Party is doing free hand drawing on the work to create a framework that means that, in the long term, nuclear weapons can be disposed of and a ban on nuclear weapons. It's Tetzschner who's dealing with color pencils here, it's not entirely related to the history of this case. This fear in the Right of the word ‘ban’ is a bit funny. You have a ban on chemical weapons, on bacteriological weapons, and the day you have a framework where we can hope to be rid of nuclear weapons, it will mean a ban. When you read the setting to be discussed later, you will also find that there is a consensus that we should have a ban on fissile material. And I think it's hard to make nuclear weapons without fissile material.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e909	I must say that I am a little surprised at how much space this one question gets in such a serious account of many important issues that we should have debated here today. Yes, in fact, the former foreign minister and the current party leader spent almost all of their ten-minute speeches on this issue, which is not really on the agenda of the matter on which we now agree, and which is therefore on another matter that we are going to debate in April. And then there's more that follow up, and that probably means you need to nuance your point of view a little bit. I accept that. But the fact of the matter is that there is now a broad consensus on the Storting on this matter and on what we are going to debate in April, on which several have been involved, actually also Solhjell. There is now an obligation to continue working on this issue. Solhell also gave a small historical description of the matter, but he forgot a few essential things. What has been on the Right, and I think also the position of the Progress Party on this matter, is that we did not want to challenge the credibility and alliance upon which we are totally dependent in the security policy situation we stand in. It's been absolutely crucial for us. That doesn't mean we have any more light-legged or less serious view of the nuclear weapon's detachment. Rather, on the contrary: we followed the initiative of the previous government. But what happened before Christmas in the Security Council is another part of Solhjell's description that he either didn't have time for or forgot. It was precisely the humanist initiative – which was very nice, and which we put behind – was drawn into wording that we could not stand behind. That fact has gone a little away in this debate. I believe this to a large extent is a debate on the pope's beard. We broadly agree with this matter, and I think we should show and express that for the dignity of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e920	In the course of my life, the world has generally improved. It has ended the cold war. Many countries have entered democracy. Warriors have ended, and very many have escaped poverty. So most of the world has become better, except in recent years, where we've seen the world go in the wrong direction. We have seen unrest in our own continent, with Russia and Ukraine. We see that in many countries the question of human rights and equality goes in the wrong direction. We see that extreme groups and terrorist groups are mobilizing. There is a lot of work to do, but I want to start by saying something that has gone in the right direction in 2015. It was toward the end of the year, when we set up an international climate agreement in Paris that was much better than it would have been possible to imagine. I thought it was so good that I nominated the architects behind the Paris Agreement for the Nobel Peace Prize, as the best contribution to peace during 2015. We no longer have to wait for an international climate agreement to be set up in order for countries to take action. Now it's just doing something. In the Workers' Party, we are impatient with this government's climate policy. I would like to commend the Foreign Minister for being a foreign minister who is present in difficult situations – in the Ebola situation a year ago, when there have been warriors in Gaza. What I want to criticise the government is that Norway no longer has an ambition and strategy for how we can best be with and influence the world in the right direction. I think we heard it quite descriptively from Michael Tetzschner instead. He called it freethinking and cheering. No, it's not reconnaissance. These are political ambitions. In the case of nuclear weapons, it is not an initiative taken on the floor of the Stortinget. It's taken from the previous government, the new government said they should follow it up, and dozens of governments around the world follow it up. The same thing we can talk about when it comes to Palestine. In Palestine we are now further away from a peace solution than in a very long time. We are so far away that the dream of a Palestinian state can only be a vision. The settlements destroy the possibility of establishing a Palestinian State. Of course, the government cannot be held responsible for this, but I think the Norwegian government should have done more to change the dynamics. We now see that in many European countries there are debates on recognition. Where's the government? Could a joint initiative be taken? The same applies to the labelling of goods. Many EU countries have gone ahead. It is not a question of Norway going first. It's a question of whether we're going to go last. In the end, Halleraker was surprised at the amount of time devoted to nuclear weapons. I think it took a lot of time because it is a concrete example that the Foreign Minister does not follow up on the majority of the Storting. It's amazing to hear the scratched posts coming, the descriptions of the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's leading figures. It merges into a series of ways in which this government deals with settlement and attempts to reach agreement. But the fact that this was also going to happen in the foreign policy arena surprises me greatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e935	The representative Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e938	A comment to the representative Svein Roald Hansen. Taste these words: countries are failing the EU. The countries adopt in Brussels, but do not follow up. It is therefore the Member States of the European Union that are failing the European Union – which are the countries. How is it possible to reach that conclusion? That's amazing. This applies to UN-funded asylum recipients outside Schengen. So it's the United Nations funding key to use. Residences are to be given on a temporary basis, countries can put down their national UDIs, human trafficking ceases, refugees are to be accepted according to size and population – worldwide, of course, in every safe country. It's a reasonable solution, and I also know that you're working on this solution elsewhere, to get this done. This is a sensible solution, which the Progress Party adopted at its national meeting last year. It works if you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e946	The representative Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e949	I'm just going to clear up a misunderstanding, because it seemed like I had attacked the Workers' Party in my first post. What I invited to reflect on was the fact that we can soon celebrate the 25th anniversary of the North in order to have three independent states in the territory of the old Soviet Union, which are nuclear-free, and which actually make the Baltic Sea and the Nordic region – these areas where initiatives were still being initiated during the Cold War to sign nuclear-weapon-free. Through political developments and the transition to democracy, these areas have become de facto nuclear-free. There are, of course, other problems: nuclear submarines outsourced, and the Russians, with their massive investment in new technology, have also moved on in the field of tactical nuclear weapons. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e956	I think this has been a very good debate. There has been a debate that has also been marked by the more challenging image of foreign and security policy, with violent extremism, destabilization of our neighbourhoods, the migration crisis, and not least by the fact that we are still struggling with quite major economic challenges in our own part of the world, Europe, with youth unemployment in the southern parts that are still up to 40-50 p.m. Some representatives have called for government initiatives. I believe that the global initiative of the Prime Minister and I last summer, on setting up a Education Commission with Gordon Brown in the driver's seat to raise education and ensure that all the world's children have access to education, has been important. The same was the Syria conference that we took the initiative to, which has led to it being given over ten billion. US dollars in one day, which has now increased to 12.5 billion. dollar, which means that the World Food Programme and others now have a completely different occasion than they had one year ago, to set up humanitarian aid both inside Syria and in neighbouring countries. There are examples of initiatives we have taken. Norway was there when chemical weapons — weapons of mass destruction — were to be shipped out of Syria. We were there with frigates, we set up as one of the first to contribute to the United Nations and OPCW getting to this. We were also the one who was asked when the Iran agreement was to be implemented, about how to ensure that Iran is not able to develop weapons of mass destruction in the form of nuclear weapons. Norway set up, and there was a broad consensus, including in Stortinget, that we should do this. Norway, together with the United Kingdom, has also taken initiatives to strengthen the nuclear disarmament compliance regime, i.e. the verification issue. I was also challenged by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to say two words about the work of a nuclear-free world. We share the vision of a nuclear-free world. The last few weeks have been a constructive dialogue between the Labour Party's parliamentary leader and myself on these issues, and there is probably a somewhat different approach to it among the different parties of the Storting. But now there is a broad consensus on this which differs from the Austrian initiative, which is a ban now. What lies in this consensus is that we should work for a nuclear-free world, which should end in a legal framework, but it must be balanced, mutually, verifiable and within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e967	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. This concludes the debate on the Foreign Minister's presentation. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-11.ana.ud454e982	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that no one is asking for the floor before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
