ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e26	The called alternate of the Buskerud County, Gerd Eli Berge, has now taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Knut Storberget from 13 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and the Vara representative, Lasse Juliusus, shall be invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e49	Lasse Juliussen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e61	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet on oral question time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Karianne O. Heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e68	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The Stoltenberg II government started the journey of time. When the Minister of Transport declares himself to be a budget winner on an annual basis, it is because he has a solid basis to rely on, namely Report. St. 26 for 2012–2013, National Transport Plan 2014–2023. It is good to keep this document in purses when the Council of State is going to the budgetary conference. By following this plan, he automatically becomes a budget winner, only turned off by the government's own tax cuts to those who have the most of them. The Storting representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Siv Jensen promised in August 2013 to cut the red tape by 15 billion. kr to make better use of taxpayers' money. The reality now shows that Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen has ended up as Secretary of Bureau Solvik-Olsen, because the opposite is true both in the offices of the department and in the agencies underlying it. Even the National Audit Office has criticised the government for over-exploitation of consultancy services. In its eagerness to act, the most important mantra has now been to split up units, create complex organisational maps and build up parallel organisations and directorates with more bureaucracy – old and ideological solutions that were modern in the 1990s. Only in 2015 used New Weier AS 60 million. kr without building a single metre of road. A small contribution to the council may be that he should have been a little bit more concerned with following up his own election vows. My question to the Minister for Transport is therefore as follows: Does the Council of State think that more red tape and years of contracts for well-paid consultants really make better use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e79	No, more bureaucracy is not something we want, so we have not increased the number of employees, for example. in the Ministry of Transport, despite the fact that today we have a budget of about 60 billion. NOK, while we took over, the budget for the Ministry of Transport was 41 billion. kr. So we're in charge of almost 20 billion. kr more, a growth of 50 pst., without employing more people in the department. What we've done, on the other hand, is that we've hired more people in the Railway Agency and the State Road Service, precisely because they're going to build these roads, they're going to build the railway, and they're going to not least maintain these projects. The representative Tung refers to the national transport plan. I am very pleased that everything that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted for in connection with the National Transport Plan, we can now implement, because it has not been that just because a layer of a plan, it is automatically implemented. In that case, we should have a good motorway network in this country as the Workers' Party presented a national motorway plan in 1963. I think it's just looking around in this country and you see that the Labour Party's plans are not the same as that things are being done. But we're implementing, we're making new plans, and we're also going to do a lot more in the next 12 years that this national transport plan we're now working on, is going to be, but until 2050. That is why we have, for example: in 2016, a planning budget in Vegvesenet and the Railway Agency of 3 billion. kr, a budget of 800 million. NOK when the Workers' Party left the offices. On paper it will appear that there are several bureaucrats, because there are just a few people sitting there planning things to happen. But I think that when we sit and look back in 10, 20 and 30 years, we see that because we've got more people planning roads, we've got more money to build roads, more money to maintain roads, not because the Workers' Party would, but because today's government and today's majority have prioritised it, it's also built more infrastructure. So the money is spent on people who do a job, not on people who sit in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e88	Governments are usually well pleased with themselves and see few problems. He hides behind technocratic and ideological reforms and claims that this should solve all the problems we have in the sector. The problem is that while the Council of State makes fine organisational charts and thinks loudly about everything that's going to be better, red tape increases, and the costs of projects are shooting in the weather. I repeat that New Roads spent 60 million. kr last year, without having so far built a single metre of road. Do the Council of State at all have any concrete proposals that can quickly be realised, so that we can make more effective use of taxpayers’ money – and more road and rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e97	Let me first say that I see a lot of problems in the transport sector. These are the same problems I saw when I was an opposition politician, but where we from the then opposition parties experienced that the previous government would not do anything to change the systems, to solve the problems. That's why we said when we've seen that it takes 10–15–20 years to plan new road sections, that it's too long. That is why we have established a new road company. Then, of course, it costs a little bit for the company to become operational – from starting planning until they start building a road – because they have to go through a whole process. This is not money that is used both in the Road Service and in the road company. One transfers responsibility – then transfers money. If one hadn't changed the system, they had 60 million. kr has instead been used in Vegvesenet. The point of the reforms we are implementing is precisely to reduce the planning time. It's just to look at the Ringerix track, which has been planned since the 1850s, without one having put the spade in the ground. Now we've made a lot of decisions and organized it differently. In 2019, the Earth's spade, in 2024, is to be finished, simply because we've changed the planning methods. It costs a little more money now, but overall it saves a lot of money in the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e106	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Kjell-Idar Juvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e109	Governments usually look back 50 years in time instead of in the future. I register that he will not do anything about the bureaucracy. I was at the NHO lunch yesterday, and he should at least listen to them if he does not listen to the Workers' Party. They criticised the increasing number of transport bureaucracies involved in the implementation of new projects, which are described as far more resource-intensive than before. The Land Association of Construction was also there and showed that a large part of the cost increase we have seen for road projects is due to increased follow-up costs, i.e. bureaucracy. They showed an example: where four people were previously used to cover a road project, one could now refer to a similar example where one used 70 people on a road project. If that is true, it is no wonder that it has become expensive under Solvik-Olsen. I would therefore like to follow up the representative of Tung's question and ask the Council of State whether he has intended to clean up the form that he used to, when he was in opposition, would die, which now apparently seems to be esthetic under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e118	It's a little strange to get criticism of road projects that are organized as the red-greens think all road projects should be, while the road projects that are organized like today's government and today's majority want, all of a sudden is what's good. The road project to which the representative refers, which had four to five employees, was a OPS project. The state road service almost didn't need people to follow it up because you had a 15-year perspective on maintenance and the like. Assuming that it was a builder, one would also be responsible for maintaining along the way, and thus there became more self-justice in the project than that some externally had to stand and take care of. Svegatjørn–Rådal, which is the project I assume he is aiming for in respect of 70 employees, is a traditional road-vessel project, where one has done nothing with the contract forms. So once again, there is criticism from the Workers' Party against things they themselves thought were properly organized, while the solutions where one has used the principles of today's government are those he himself sets out as good examples. Then I just have to remind you that, in connection with the national transport plan, we are looking towards 2050. But I also pointed out that someone made plans in 1963, and they haven't put the shovel in the ground yet. One should be careful with what a critic criticises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e127	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e130	The adopted road reform provides for more coherent planning and development, but also for a reduction in planning time. It takes an average of nine to ten years to implement a planning process, and several parts of such a process can both be repetitive and slow to progress. Large road projects often go through several municipalities. Then there can be long discussions between municipalities about where to go, and we know this takes time. A lot of talk is that the use of a government plan can be a rational and good grip on municipal road sections. At the same time, we record that processes around the decision making of the use of the state plan also take disproportionately long time, even up to three times a year. What new steps will the Council of State take to reduce planning time in major road projects, including the decision-making process on the use of government plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e138	That, I think, is a constructive question, because the state plan is something that you think can shorten the time, that you see a larger whole. The previous questions from the Workers' Party have been very critical for the use of government plan, and I am very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party are positive about it. It is about ensuring that one body is responsible across municipalities, but of course local politicians have to be active in the recording process. But we see, in the project I mentioned – Ringeriksbanen and E16 – that they have done the job in a different way by having just one organisation, the Vegvessen and the Railway Agency together, which have approached the municipalities and all other interest groups who tend to have points of view, and managed things along the way. So one has done the planning much faster than the usual. We want to use government plans often, but we also need to institutionalize it, so that we don't spend so much time before making such a decision. But that this makes a difference, I'm absolutely convinced. In the case of E39 Stavanger-Kristiansand, we see the Vegvesen saying that they are now sitting and planning 20 miles at a time instead of one and one short parcel. It shows changes in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e147	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e150	There will not be a single metre new railway or a single metre new road by employing bureaucrats or setting up several companies. There must be money on the table. The Council of State says that the reorganisation and fragmentation will not involve bureaucracy. Can we really trust it when the number of state bureaucrats has increased dramatically after the Progress Party came into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e155	Once again, I remind you that the number of employees in the Ministry of Transport is actually unchanged despite the fact that you have 20 billion. kr more to dispose of. On the other hand, I think it's quite natural that when you're building something physically, you actually need people. You need people out on projects. When you have several road projects, and when you carry out more maintenance, it's not something you can just conjure up and it's done. You actually have to have people for this. I think it's wrong to call these people bureaucrats. These are engineers. These are road workers. These are railway workers. It's something quite different than paper movers. It's just looking at where these people are employed. There's also another point, and that's that there's more money for this purpose. It's not like you give the impression that people are hired, and then there's no more money spent on infrastructure. The railway budget has increased by 6 billion. kr since the government change. That means this year it's 6 billion. kr more for railway purposes than it was when we took over. There are also some more employees, but it's simply because they're going to draw, they're going to design, and they're going to implement and make sure that this is opened, so that we actually get the benefit of it. Then we need people, but not bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e162	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e165	There is a problem that many transportation projects go beyond their calculations. Increased red tape is one factor – increasing demands another. In particular, the control functions are increasing, and at the new Gardermoen terminal this is, the control function, the largest single unit price. What worries me is that when the projects are to be scaled down, they may go beyond the climate-friendly solutions of the projects, such as walking and cycling routes and charging stations, while at the same time Stortinget has fixed a target of a bicycle share of 8 pst. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State ensure that walking and cycling routes and other environmentally friendly solutions do not suffer damage when major road projects need to be scaled down?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e172	I am very concerned that we will get more back for the money. That's what we've spent the most time on -- to make sure we can find standards that are good enough, and that makes that when we spend 1 billion. kr, we'll get more miles for that money. That's the very opposite of the impression that some people have tried to create, before the representative Raja took the floor. If one looks at the appropriations for cycling road purposes, one in the 2016 budget sees that appropriations increased by 60 pst. compared to the 2015 budget. We also know that in the period 2010–2013 – under the previous government – there were concrete goals about how much cycle path one would build, but one achieved to build only 70 pst. of his own plans. We do not yet have the accounts for 2015, but in 2014 we built 30 pst. more cycle path than planned for that year. This indicates that we are in line with the same kind of over-fulfillment. So not only do we have more money, but we also get more miles for the money. It's not a job that we've come up with, but it's a process that needs to go to simplify the whole frame around, so we get more for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e181	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e184	The state is wasting taxpayers' money – it's a typical statement from Progress Party politicians. But when Progress Party politicians are released into public life, the result has often become more bureaucratic because of market thinking, more directors are getting high wages, and money is just being wasted. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen is not an exception, for rarely have we seen more bureaucracy of public offices than under him. Take, for example: The road company Nye Veier: There have been seven new directors together, and I want them to be happy, because they will do the same job that could have been done by the state road system – and I wonder at what price. When seven new bureaucrats with directors pay replace competent engineers in the State Road Administration, we must at least ask the following question: What about the salaries? What has Ketil Solvik-Olsen done to make sure that the salary levels of those who are going to do the job that the State Road Service could do are not higher than for the corresponding job in the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e189	It is very interesting that the opposition is attacking the road reform and the road company Nye Veier. They show in what they have done, that they should have much less staffing per project than the Vegvesen has in the corresponding project. Here I'm accused of one moment that we're not doing enough to make it more efficient, but when we actually do the grip that makes it more efficient, it's also wrong. I would rather see that the opposition could come with an alternative, except to operate with ‘business as usual’. One of the challenges that was – at least when I was in opposition – was that we had eight years behind us with record growth in costs on road and rail development. That's what we're dealing with right now. So history shows that those who criticize were involved in raising costs more than anyone else. Just when you have a combined entrepreneurial business, an overall road environment and a comprehensive railway environment that says that the kind of organisation we are now in favour of, by bringing together responsibilities and getting a clear link between those who have planning resources and those who have development funds, that's the way we have to do it. This will reduce the cost. That's the total cost I'm concerned with, and we're going to get them down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e196	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e200	My question goes to the state council Hofstad Helleland, and it will be about gambling policy. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government will maintain the exclusive right model, and we have an important social policy justification for this. We also look forward to addressing the announced news of gambling policy here in Stortinget. But while we wait, we assume that the government actively preserves the exclusive model and ensures compliance with Norwegian law. It is absolutely essential that corruption and government actively maintain the protection of gambling addicts and their relatives, through the exclusive right model. We know that competition from actors outside Norway is high, and that many foreign gambling companies are working very hard towards the Norwegian market to secure their customers. This is despite the ban on advertising games that are not allowed to operate in Norway, and much of the illegal advertising is produced in whole or in part by Norwegian operators. Norwegian advertising agencies and media agencies contribute to the creation of advertisements and campaigns that violate or circumvent the Norwegian advertising ban. Actis has recently been subject to a legal investigation in which the lawyer company Hjort concludes that, in their assessment, it is possible to react within the current legislation to Norwegian operators providing assistance to, or marketing gambling without authorisation in Norway. It is quite obvious to most people that more players, whether gambling providers, media, advertising agencies or others, are involved in undermining the ban on the marketing of lotteries and gambling that are not permitted in Norway. None of us can sit still and watch deliberately undermining Norwegian law. My question to the Council of State will be: How does the government view participation in the advertising of games for actors outside the exclusive right model? And will the government defend Norwegian law, ensure that Norwegian law is followed, and ensure that the exclusive model is not eroded?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e213	I thank you for the question. As the representative Bekkevold knows, we work in the Ministry of Culture with a big message about gambling to be presented to the Stortinget before Christmas. I think it is unfortunate that actors contribute to undermining the Norwegian model of exclusive rights that helps us to ensure good funding of cultural life, of volunteering and of humanitarian organisations. I think it's unfortunate that you set up, and I also think it's important that we have a bigger perspective on this. For this reason, I have taken the initiative to make this thoroughly assessed in the context of the process of the Storting Message, so that when it is presented to the Stortinget, the Stortinget may also have the opportunity to give clear signals about what you think of this. This is regulated by the Lottery and the Foundation. It's a matter for the Lottery and the Foundation, which I also perceive they've been inside and looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e224	I would like to thank you for your answer and would like to respond to the big message that is being presented. The point is that in the meantime you must have an active attitude to this. Several of the foreign gaming companies openly state that profit is more important to them than accountability. They use recruitment methods like free games, bonuses and offers to play on credit to secure new players. According to the Hamar Committee, Norwegian TV viewers are exposed to nearly 1,000 illegal TV advertising spots for gambling from foreign gaming companies every day. There's a real challenge here, because we Norwegians don't know if this is illegal advertising. Marketing also makes sure that many people don't know that these are illegal games. It is good that the Media Authority and the Lottery and the Foundation have worked on this with regard to the media bit. We are able to enforce the ban on alcohol advertising, so I think we should also be able to enforce the ban on advertising illegal games. What is the Council of State's view of the work now being done to prevent illegal gambling advertising in Norwegian media?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e235	I am pleased that the representative Bekkewold is looking forward to dealing with the gambling notification, so he also has the opportunity to make clear views on what you think about this matter. If it turns out that Norwegian operators are involved in crimes to promote gambling companies without authorisation in Norway, I believe it is very unfortunate. Therefore, it is also important to make it quite clear that there is a matter for the Lottery and the Foundation. It is the department's professional body, and it is those who also have to enforce the legislation, and I take it for granted that they follow this situation very closely and supervise, among other things. the prohibition of placing on the market. Then there is also what the representative addresses here, things that need to be discussed in connection with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e244	There will be follow-up questions – first Astrid Aarhus Byrknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e247	A game dependent can lose hundreds of dollars per minute on the Internet. According to an investigation from 2013, over 100,000 Norwegians have a risky gambling behaviour, and about 22,000 labour with dependence. We know that raw recruitment and marketing and lack of accountability characterise the foreign actors. They're looking for profit. The Hamar Committee recommended that Norway introduce a stronger protection of the one-right model by blocking the playing pages. We know that 15 EU countries have already done just that. A study from Actis shows that 67 pst. supports the blocking of pages on the Internet that offer illegal games, and shows that there is considerable support in the population. Does the Council see that Norway should also consider this type of measure to secure the Norwegian one-rights model and thus prevent risky gambling behaviour that leads to dependence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e256	Thank you for the question. This is something that we also consider now in the process of the big message, and in the Sundvolden Declaration, the government is very clear that it is the consideration of the gambling addicts who are to be given priority to our design and regulation of Norway's gambling policy. As the representative may know, there was an annual meeting and a general meeting in Norwegian Typing yesterday. The joy is that they have the first profit of history, and this is money that goes well to our cultural life, to sport and to humanitarian organizations. I am very pleased with the model that is now, which also ensures that Norwegian Typing can do a good job of screening and following up the gambling addicts, taking personal contact and helping them get out of the gambling addiction, and for the time being I think it is a model that works very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e265	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e268	As the Council points out, there was an annual meeting in Norwegian Typing yesterday. There we heard a representative from the Blue Cross who told us that when the Red-Green government got the regulated slot machines, they actually had to downgrade the treatment offer for the gambling addicts, but that we now see that the need is growing again. Most of those in need of help are clients of foreign players. We hear about aggressive marketing, about people who want to quit, but who are lured back by lucrative offers, and the Blue Cross said that the very best thing we can do now is stop the advertising of illegal games. This doesn't have to wait for the Council of State to do so. It is enough to ensure that today’s legislation is actually complied with, if gambling addicts and volunteering so desire, but so far the signals of the Council of State and the government have gone in a different direction – by developing licensing of more games. We are surprised that the government does not listen to the signals and the many thousands who are asking for action. The Council of State refers to the Lottery Authority, but what has the Council of State itself done to ensure that today’s laws are actually complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e275	We listen very much to the signals that are coming, and it is also important for us in the work on that big message. That is why we did not have a major seminar with different actors very long ago, both those receiving grants from the exclusive right model, foreign actors and others, because it is important for us to get a good foundation and get the necessary knowledge before we conclude in the Single European Act. And as the representative of Grande probably understands, it's just giving you the opportunity for a comprehensive game policy, where you get to evaluate all the aspects, the opportunity to conclude based on a good knowledge base. So what the representative now mentions is one of the things we'll consider in our work and come back to, to the cultural committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e280	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e284	It's a long time until Christmas. It is long until December, and the Media Authority reported in October 2015 that the volume of illicit gambling advertising had increased by 44 pst. only in the last ten months. It's not exactly ten months to Christmas, but it's not that far from it. The market for illicit gambling advertising increased from 423 million. SEK in 2014 to 609 million. kr in 2015, and about 90 pst. of all gambling advertisements displayed on Norwegian TV screens are from actors who are not allowed to do so. It's time to do something, Councillor. When the market for television advertising for foreign games is so huge, it's just a fraction of what the revenue is for gaming companies. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What action will the government take until the game policy message in December to ensure that foreign gambling companies do not have access to the Norwegian market through illegal TV exposure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e293	The government is very concerned about running a responsible gaming policy, and therefore we are following the situation very closely. We listen to actors out there, and we take those concerns very seriously. Even if you work with a big message, where you can put things in a bigger perspective and make sure that the Stortinget will also make good decisions about how Norwegian gambling policy will be in the future, we have a continuous dialogue with stakeholders, with supervision, and follow the situation very closely. So I want to reassure the representative that this is something that we are going to follow from day to day also towards Christmas, and if that is how we believe we have to intervene, we will come back and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e300	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e303	It is very good that the Council of State now announces a big message about gambling policy. You do not have to show at least this query. There is little doubt that today's gambling policy and monopoly have unfortunate sides – the gambling dependency now was very heavily addressed. Today, too, the rules are more or less such that sportsmen, preferably football players in this case, are almost under ban, or – even worse – prohibited from exercising their sport if they enter into agreements with fully legal companies other than state-owned Norwegian Tipping. The question is really short and well whether the minister thinks this is a good practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e310	I noticed that there has been a look in the press – it has been impossible to avoid noticing it. As I also answered a previous question, the Lottery Authority followed up on this. I do not go in and deal with individual matters, but I think it is unfortunate when you set up that way and undermine the Norwegian model of exclusive rights that we now have and that is involved in financing culture and sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e317	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e320	After first allowing poker and opening up new lotteries, the government realized that you need a new staging message, and that's important. But I am not particularly reassured by the very hesitant answers given by the Minister today, and that you follow the case day by day, when there is no mention of a single action that could possibly be taken. For gambling addiction is not a problem that's out of the world, it's there, and it's big, and the foreign companies contribute very much to this. When I read statements, for example. from the Right on the case, from the representative of Eidem Løvaas, who says that some of the government is looking at is whether tax revenues can be collected from these companies home to Norway, it may be a good thing to finance sports, but it is hardly the problem of gambling dependence to allow more of this. Is there really something the government sees as a solution to gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e327	I record that once again Karin Andersen is very concerned, and then I have to reassure Andersen's representative that she doesn't have to be. As far as I know, the number of game addicts goes down sharply – at least it goes down. There has never been such a good follow-up from the Norwegian Tipping side through Playscan, through direct contact and follow-up, by constantly getting an assessment of how much you play, and moving up to the red, walking the alarm, and being contacted. So it's a joyous development that I'm glad Norsk Tipping succeeds. And then we also see that the number of players who go abroad to play, now aren't that big, because there are attractive games at Norsk Tipping. I'm following the situation, but there's no urgent need to intervene and change that practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e336	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e339	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The Progress Party held an election campaign in 2013 that the Progress Party would spend 455 billion over the next ten to fifteen years. kr more for transportation. The advance party had to remove tolls, and they had to remove bureaucracy. We see that the appropriations in the transport sector mainly follow the lines drawn by the previous government, although we see that investments in the rail sector are now below the 2014 level. On the roadside, it's probably the most descriptive thing to say that we're now waiting for a project after a project – and it's not just the Storting that's waiting, it's people outside. We see that the organisation chart in the transport sector is further complicated. It means more bureaucrats in the long term. And we see that the toll burn is still "an industry of growth and development", as the toll companies' umbrella organisations so aptly say. It's far from ambition and talking to concrete results. I'll take one concrete example, the toll sector. There was a broad consensus in the hall that we were going to bring down the number of toll companies in this country. The goal was to reduce the number from 47, which is today's number, to about five companies. It would have been a red tape reform, but the reform is still in the blue. Then I ask the question to the Minister for Transport: What are the reasons why we have not yet seen this reform, which is supported by the whole of political Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e350	Let me first comment on some of the premises. It is true that the current majority of the Grand Duchy supported many of the points contained in the national transport plan submitted by the red-greens. That is why it is also quite natural, I believe that today's majority implements the points on which we agreed. But then there are some points we thought were too passive, for example. by rail. So we're going to be 5 billion. kr in front of the form in relation to what the red-greens had planned. This is some of the reasons why we are already reducing the downturn both on the road, on the railways and on coastal installations – a decline that increased for decades after decades, where one, therefore, left the road system in a worse condition at the end of the year than at the beginning of the year. That's what we've changed – and we haven't managed for 30 months. The organisation chart has not become more complicated, but it has become more clearly structured, and the collection of responsibilities is one of the things that is important. It is not that the road company has tasks that are also in the Road Administration. It is a clear division of responsibilities, just to be able to sharpen organisations and implement things more effectively. On the toll side, we have already presented a toll reform to Stortinget. It was treated in Stortinget last summer. It's a little sad if you don't remember it. But the point is, yes, we want to reduce the number of toll companies because we believe that it could cut administrative costs. I think it's good that the opposition now expresses their agreement to this, despite the fact that they didn't make the change themselves in the eight years they ran. We have removed several toll collection points by erasing debts. Even in Alta, where the red-greens had built the toll station, but not put it into operation, we cleared the debt, so you didn't put it into service. But then some of the proposals that the government has made have been voted against by the representative of Sjelmo Nordås and the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy, and the fact that it is difficult for me to deal with a matter that the majority will vote against. I'm doing it, of course, but that means we have to find other solutions, simply because the representative Sjelmo Nordås has said no to some of them we've already brought.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e364	I think the memory of the state council may not be marked by the fact that you got the majority to say that you wanted to reduce the number of toll companies. We can help with that if we need it. I intend to follow up with another question, like a low-hanging fruit on the toll field. We know that the IT project Grindgut in Vegdirektoratet, which is the Council's own directorate, has crashed, and that's a bill of up to 200 million. kr to be paid. The Council of State sends this bill in full to the drivers. How can a Progress Party Council defend that Norwegian drivers have to pay for failed IT projects in his own bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e371	Let me just stress that several parts of the toll reform are making good progress, for example. to reduce the number of companies. There's a job going on, it's just to get in touch with the different county municipalities that are the owners of today's toll projects. It is determined how they are to be in regions, and then we are working with designated companies that are to take over for all, so that one gets a company per region, instead of what it has been today, that one has to set up a new company for each new toll project. So I think everyone in this room knows that I represent a party that really wants the tolls off, and that would rather invest a little more of the oil wealth to make investments better and cheaper than by charging tolls. I just have to accept that I haven't got a majority for that. But today's government has said that we're going to have a lower toll share in the projects ahead than what's been common history. That's what I pointed out when the Storting said no to it. One would not increase the appropriations for toll projects in the State budget for 2016, for example. The Grindgut project is one where we wanted a better computer system. The supplier has not delivered it, and there is now a case where one conflicts with the supplier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e380	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e383	Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen is the governor of Norway in tolls – €8.5 billion. kr in 2014. It's going to be exciting to see if you're getting a new bite in the water pool when the 2015 figures are presented. But what these questions are about is that the Road Directorate has an IT project that has crashed – run in the ditch. It's going to be up to 200 million. kr, and it has wanted – and notified – to be sent to Norwegian drivers. It is very important for the legitimacy of a toll scheme that the money goes to build a road and not to finance IT stunts in the Road Directorate, and there are no parties on the Stortinget that force the Council of State to send the bill to the drivers. So my question is, will the Council take the bill for the failed IT project Grindgut?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e390	It's a little strange to hear the representative Pollestad talk about the level of tolls, considering that the level today is lower than what the representative Pollestad and the red-green majority had planned. So if the red-green policy had remained unchanged, there would be more toll projects, with higher rates than what we have today. Then it is true – yes – that the level of tolls has risen over many years, simply because that is what has been adopted. But I think everyone knows that if the Progress Party had got through on its solutions, it would have been a completely different development. So if the representative Pollestad is concerned with the level of tolls and with saving the drivers for money, I really encourage the representative Pollestad to vote the Progress Party at the next election, so that the Progress Party gets a majority in this Chamber. It's also true that now we've seen a flare on the growth of tolls, just because we've changed the systems. So we know that as long as the representative Pollestad and other people who are happy with tolls get an impact for us to have more of that, one must also have a computer system that can work. So now it's tried to develop a system that should be better, and then you haven't got it an ordered from the supplier, and then it's a conflict. My goal is not to pay for something that we have not received either. But I'm not the one who decides alone, because it's probably a matter for the justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e399	Kjell-Idar Juvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e402	Governments will not admit tolls, but have voted wisely for tolls throughout this period. But there might be other ways to take this money. The government work programme for cooperation with the EU on page 7 reads as follows: ‘The Commission’s announced measures to increase the use of road pricing and to establish a more efficient European road transport market are also central to the government’s work in 2016.’ After the Progress Party came into government, we have seen that the attitude towards tolls – and perhaps also towards road pricing – has changed to become much more positive. The TV 2 bombers showed that they had almost taken in 20.2 billion. kr since the Council of State took up the office. It surprises me, however, that increased use of road pricing is now at the heart of the government’s European policy for the current year — if this is true. And since we are already well within 2016, I would like to ask the Council of State what kind of contact the Council of State has had and would like to have with the European Commission to increase the use of road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e412	It's completely wrong. I represent a party that doesn't want tolls, that thinks that this we can build in another way. And then I think the representative Juvik knows very well that he represents a party that thinks you should spend more tolls. I have to deal with what the bulk of the population says. It is not right that I have voted in favour of a toll project; as a government council, I do not actually have voting rights in the Stortinget. So just that little detail shows the difference in how to approach the problem. So the bombometer shows how the toll usage in this country has increased, and I think it has risen too fast. But it's actually the voters who have to decide if they want a majority who are in favour of or against using tolls. When we work on the approach to this, it's to reduce the toll burden. That's why many people will know that we have removed 28 toll entries by paying off debts. We have made sure that some places have lower rates, for example: on E 18 through Vestfold, where the decisions initially added to the toll tax of NOK 116, the toll tax was now at a maximum of NOK 57. It shows a completely different attitude towards the drivers and respect for their wallet than what the representative Juviks Party... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e419	That's when the time was up. Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e424	The reorganisation of the toll sector must help reduce administrative and collection costs and the main objective must be to ensure that a greater proportion of the car drivers’ money goes to building roads and less to administration. Mandatory toll bar is now in place for a commercial vehicle above 3,5 tonnes. The introduction of mandatory toll bar also for passenger cars will undoubtedly be the single measure which will bring the most efficiency gains in reducing toll collection costs. It also opens up the possibility of differentiated payment based on time and emissions and can act as a payment form for ferries. A while back, there was a discussion about privacy about the use of toll bar. There seems to be no big problem today. What should be done to ensure that such well-documented efficiencies are implemented by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e433	I fully agree with Mr Gruvean's approach that we need to reduce administrative costs and we need to reduce the cost of financing. There's a lot of work going on, and there's a lot of processes going on. So I wish we had a majority to give more money over the state budget to cut the level. I record that the government did not get a majority for that. With regard to the use of toll bars, there is no doubt that if you first have tolls, it is important to recover the money effectively. At the same time, I am concerned that we should have freedom of choice. Tolling in commercial transport is important in order to ensure a level playing field, not least against the rest of the world. So we see that after today's government put its finger on this, we have made sure that foreign car trains now also pay tolls. They didn't do that much before. But demanding it for all private cars, I think, is inappropriate, because fortunately it is that in many parts of the country you have to drive both 10, 20 and 30 miles before you get to a toll station. To impose a person who lives far away from a toll station, yet to have a chip, I think many will feel like a completely unnecessary cost. Toll bars in private cars should therefore remain optional.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e441	Ola Elvesuen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e444	Tolls are a well-functioning alternative funding for road construction, and there is no need to give priority to public funds in relation to tolls. But tolls also have a different function, namely to fund public transport in large cities. There are major challenges, especially here in Oslo and Akershus, but also in cities like Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim and elsewhere. The bombings also have a different function, they can be adjusted in relation to pollution, rush time charges, etc. It's important. Firstly, does the Council of State agree that it is important to keep bombing around the big cities as a necessary financing of public transport and also to regulate traffic, and will he ensure that there is full local control of these facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e449	There's a difference between bomb projects. Some toll projects finance a concrete road map, and once it is paid down, the toll station is removed. That's what the majority of today has given money to, to remove toll stations, because we believe that there will be an economic wall that will be unreasonable. Some of the toll stations that we have removed by paying off the debt had an operating cost that was well over 50 pst. in relation to what they generated, and therefore there is an inefficient way of financing the road. As a FrP, I would say that when between 10 and 20 pst. Of the tolls going to operation and not going, we would think it was terrible if the tax rate had to take 20 pst. of all tax revenue in Norway to operate the tax base instead of financing public welfare. In the case of city bombings, there is much more of a local political question. Although it is adopted in the Stortinget, it is at the request of local politicians. There we have to respect in another way that locals choose different political colors, and then I respect it, even though I don't like tolls around the cities either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e456	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e459	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. In January, there was a number from the SSB that showed that the number of children living below the poverty line has increased from 84 000 to 92 000 only in the last year. The council itself has stated that these are numbers that are going to continue to rise. Child poverty is one of the greatest social problems of our time. It must be combated early and in many ways – so that we do not get a large and sustained group of people without social mobility, who do not take education, who do not get a regular job, and who will have to live with social stigmas. Last year, government councils appointed a sample to go widely through family welfare schemes. The increasing differences show that many of the schemes do not work after what was originally the intention. What is the goal of spending so much resources on families with children? It's not just creating economic incentives for some types of family constellations, is it? It's not to throw money at those who already have more than enough? The goal should be to give all children the same opportunities and to ensure that they do not construct alienation already in their first year of life, which is never healed. The Prime Minister said in his speech to the Court of Justice that kindergarten brings the greatest benefit to children from disadvantaged families. She encouraged the municipalities to knock on the doors of the families who do not use kindergarten. The nursery serves as the development and integration arena, where children are taught language and social skills – a safe base that provides stability to children who have unstable homes. The government often uses the term ‘early effort’. In the very first years of life, important premises are made for the rest of life. That's why it's a paradox that we spend a lot of money on schemes like cash and child welfare and lubricating them thinly, so that everyone gets a little, but get exactly what they really need. My question to the Council of State is therefore: will the Council of State consider differentiating incomes to some universal support schemes for families with children, for example: Children’s benefits, and to replace them with targeted measures as free full childcare space for all children from low-income families — including in the youngest age groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e476	I thank you for the question. I record that the Left now has a charge to its national meeting, where there are important issues on the agenda, both the growing-up environment and the family. That's why I'm very happy to have this question. And I'm very happy to say that the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government last year launched a strategy against child poverty, the first of its kind, with 64 concrete measures. Then, like the representative, I am concerned about the developments we see, especially in the development of child poverty in Norway. I'm afraid that development is just going to increase, because we know that work is the key to reducing poverty. And we know that for the first time minority families are overrepresented in these statistics, and it's not least because it takes longer to get these families out of work. The most important thing is work. And then we need measures to prevent poverty from inheriting. Many of the children I meet say, "I'm not the poor one, it's my parents." That is why it is very important for me, as Minister for Children, to also have measures that make these children experience a day-to-day life when they are not stigmatised, where they do not fall outside. There are many proposals contained in the action plan that we have launched, with the good help of the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. The representative records transfers to families with children. There are good transfers to the families of children today, but it is also important that we take a breath on the ground and see if these arrangements are targeted enough towards the families who need it. I record that it is not only Left, but also several other parties, who have a discussion about cash support and child welfare. That is why I am pleased that I have put down a sample that will evaluate and review all of these schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e489	It is good for the Council of State to note that this year’s theme at the National Conference of the Left is children, young people and growth, and the Council of State is welcome. We're going to spend about 15 billion dollars. kr per year on child welfare, and we know that there are large costs of cash support, which both prevent children getting early in kindergarten and help keep women at home. For immigrant families in particular, cash support is a tasty evil. The government's trial project at Mortensrud School in Oslo has shown that when the offer was made free, the proportion of children in the Activity School went up from 29 p.m. to 90 pst. It's amazing. We all know at the same time how important SFO is for children's development, but because of the family's economy, not all children have equal opportunities to participate in this that balances differences. My point is that if we collect money from the child benefit and the cash support, we can target schemes where they are most needed, such as: free SFO for children in low-income families. It is good that the Council of State has noticed that both the Right and other parties, including the Left, are thinking in those paths, but my question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think about these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e498	As a government council responsible for this field, I am dealing with a government platform and a cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, which is very clear on what goes on in free core time, in which we are very happy that we have an increase in. Several families have now been given the possibility of free core time in kindergarten for their children. I also deal with the cooperation agreement, where it says that we will increase the cash support, and the government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, has increased the cash support. Studies show that the use of cash support has not increased during this government. I fully understand that it is important that the parties have a discussion, because that is the way it should be in the political environment – we should be able to discuss all these arrangements at a political level – but I have to relate to the government platform we have, and the cooperation agreement we have with the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e507	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e510	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Culture. The left is very concerned about the cultural offer for children. Experience, create expressions and expressiveness through music, drawing, shape and color, and getting involved in sports in different forms and at different venues is something that all children have to have the opportunity to do. The left wants all children to have culture and sport based on their own assumptions, regardless of background. It is necessary to facilitate the early development of all children’s talents in a broad range of artistic and cultural expressions and sports. Just on these arenas it is that many from low-income families fall outside, and those with a migrant background may lack equipment or language or someone to run. The cultural school offer is popular, but today it is not for everyone. In some places it is long queues, elsewhere too high self-payment, a third place lacks teachers' powers. So my question is, what are the plans of the Council of State to ensure that all children have access and equal opportunities for good cultural services?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e519	I thank the representative for a very good question. It's important in the time we're in now, not just to reach the children from low-income families, it's also important in terms of everyday integration. We know that the key to good everyday integration is just volunteering and culture. What I'm worried about, and I also talk a lot about to the Minister for Children, is that there are children with parents who are resource-intensive who are visiting the cultural school or visiting cultural activities, who are being driven to the piano class, while very many ports outside and do not have the opportunity to learn culture. Children and youth are a priority in the government's cultural policy. That is why I am very happy that I am now working with the Minister for Children to give all children an activity this week – that it should be a right, that it should be an opportunity. I think that's a lot of the solution to what the representative is asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e527	Sonja Mangt – for follow-up questions. The representative Mant has to say which state council she wants to ask questions to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e532	I will ask questions to the State Council Solvency Horne. The Labour Party believes that the fight against child poverty must be conducted along two lines. The first and most important thing is an inclusive workline where people have jobs to support their kids. Track two is targeted, concrete action for those families in need of extra help. The first track weakens the government by cutting in kindergartens, increasing kindergarten queues, cutting in action areas — and rough cuts in transitional welfare. The second track is equally weak from the government – e.g. the proposal for a large cut in the children's supplement, which will hit families with great needs. Fortunately, the opposition was hindered by the worst cuts proposed by the Right and the Advance Party. If the Council of State, which is actually responsible for child poverty, could reverse the period of one or two years, would the Council of State have proposed to cut the transitional aid and cut the child allowance, or does the Council of State admit that government policy creates more child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e541	If I had turned the time back, I would have liked the previous government to have put more effort into measures that would have led to more children having a better everyday life when they have a family that has a low income. I am proud of this government, which, in cooperation with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has put in place the strategy against child poverty, which is to prevent inheritance, and which has concrete measures both in terms of free core time in kindergarten, that more people are offered leisure activities under the national grant scheme, that more people are receiving housing support – I could mention many such proposals. It certainly helps to make the everyday life of these children easier. Then I agree with the representative that the most important thing to combat poverty is to get parents to work. It's a work that the government takes very seriously, but it's going to be a challenge in the future when we know that getting minority families into work is more difficult and takes longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e550	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e553	Having children costs. That's true of everyone. The universal child-responsiveness is received by everyone. It's important in itself, because there's nothing we need to apply for or earn, or something we think is flattering or stigmatizing. For there is something all who have children, receive, for all who have children, have higher expenses than those who do not have children. This is important family policy. Then we also know that child welfare is a good tool in the face of poverty. The Councils mentioned the strategy against poverty, which we have contributed to bringing it together. I know the Council of State has a coordinating responsibility there. The budget agreement for 2016 provided for the extension of the system of free core working time in the nursery to include three-year-olds in low-income families. And then there is a verbal proposal that the government, in the context of the revised national budget for 2016, will investigate proposals for differentiated residence payments in the SFO according to the model from kindergartens. Can the Council confirm that this is something the government is actively working on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e562	As far as the SFO is concerned, it is below the Minister of Knowledge. Without telling me what the Minister of Knowledge is working on, any request decisions coming from Stortinget will be followed up by the minister responsible for it. It is, as the representative said, very good that this proposal has come in. In fact, a free part-time trial at SFO has now been extended to several municipalities, both Drammen, Stavanger and Trondheim and several parts of Oslo. Twenty million. NOK is set aside for this work today. I want to say that this is something that the government has to come back to in revision, and is under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e569	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e572	A strategy with more free kindergarten and SFO is good. It is SV's policy and red-green policy. Free activity is good. It took away the government in the cultural school class, some of the first thing they did. But the problem with the government is that their main strategy is increasing the poverty of the disadvantaged children. So first you give tax bills – $2,100 a day to the richest, $700,000 a year. But if you're unhappy and have a mother who's disabled or chronically ill and has had a disability, a low disability, the government has been targeting those families that barely get a job in today's labour market, and taken from them $2,450 a month, i.e. $29,000 a year. That's a lot of money! Then I ask the Council of State: are there more or less poor children to take money from the poorest children's families where parents do not have the opportunity to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e579	The fact that parents are at work is the most important factor in preventing children from growing up in poor families. The existence of a safe, stable and flexible labour market is important for achieving that objective. As Minister of Children, it is my main concern to ensure that the children who grow up in poor families, or low-income families, actually have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, that one is able to prevent poverty, and not least that one does so that these children can complete both school and education, so that poverty does not pass on. There are many proposals in this area in the strategy promoted by the government. Then I want to say, in relation to other parties that have said they're going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, that I'm more concerned that the development we're seeing now is going to increase, because we know that we have a difficult labour market. Not least minority families, who need a longer period of time before they get into work, and it can also harm the children living in those families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e591	This is a main question for Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Last Tuesday, I and the government council were on an electric bus tour in Oslo, and that was even so that we could leave our cell phones on the bus. It was Siemens and Volvo who had made the buses, and they believe that they can count on the fact that it is profitable for Oslo to get fast charging electric buses on a number of routes. A number of other electric bus manufacturers are also ready to deliver in competition. It requires more investment in charging infrastructure and buses, but it cuts all local pollution, cuts all greenhouse gas emissions and has lower operating costs. The councils were also there, and he held a standard party talk about how fine it was with technology and how fine it was with the market that provided such buses. But real technology optimists are using zero-emission technology, we're not just talking about it in party speeches. Why do companies come to Oslo? Well, it is because the city has decided that all public transport should be zero emissions by 2020, and they get it because they have had time to plan this – the decision was taken in 2010. On 3 February of more than one year ago, the Stortinget unanimously adopted, on the basis of a proposal from the SV, the following: ‘The government asks that public transport in 2025 should, as a general rule, use zero or low-emission technologies or climate-neutral fuels.’ I haven't seen the council be around and trade fair for this with the same commitment that he, for example. has been subject to a competitive outsourcing of the NSB. That is why I ask the Council of State: what has he done to ensure that the states, which are responsible for most of the collective offer, follow this decision? Has the State Council at all given notice to the states that all public transport is going on low or zero-emission technologies by 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e608	Before attempting to push others into the column, a read government platform should be used. It says that this government is relying on low- and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector to all places where public responsibility is as soon as technology is mature. It thus shows that this government, both the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment and Climate and the Prime Minister, is already working on this. When Volvo comes to Norway, when French developers come to Norway to demonstrate self-driving buses, when Elon Musk comes to Norway next week to attend a government conference, when the US Minister of Transport comes to Norway next Thursday to be here for two days, it is because today's government and the majority of today's population have a strong commitment to reducing vehicle fleet emissions, and that applies to all types of transport. I think it's better that we work to get electric buses in these cities than we look at the results of the previous government, when there were several diesel cars in the same cities. It's caused a lot of problems, which we're currently working on trying to solve. Then I'm connected a little different than the regular SV, I think, because where SV has discussed every year that we have to set a year for when something is going to happen – we should, according to SV, ban petrol cars in the past, because one thought that this was possible then – I'm more concerned that we should play with the market and make sure that things happen as soon as possible, without using all the energy to discuss a political year. Too often, progress is faster than we think, if we just facilitate the development of industries. The signals we have given, both politically and through Enova, have enabled us to facilitate electrification and lower emissions from the transport sector. While the Workers' Party talked about that we had to spend 50 million. In order to stimulate cleaner ferries in the counties, the government through Enova has already allocated over 270 million. NOK just to Hordaland to do this. I'm concerned with the results, not what one says.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e621	The Council of State does not answer the question. I have noticed that the journalists call the Council of State His Highness, and it is possible that the Council of State sees it as a compliment, as he does the candidate in the United States. This is because he has made it part of his style not to follow up the decision making that he does not even share, which he does not agree with. We – the majority of the population – voted against the votes of the Council of State to set climate targets for the national transport plan. He has chosen to present climate strategy, even though that proposal was voted down by Stortinget. The majority of the population have required low-emission zones, and the government has trained it. And now it's a big deal, promoted by big business representatives, about low-emission zones in cities instead. I intend to ask the following questions for follow-up: How long has the Council of State been planning to train the decision of the Storting? When does he bring it to the counties and the NSB that they must start to convert into zero emissions in public transport, as the municipality of Oslo does, and as Hordaland has started?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e630	To ‘Your Highness’ – or what it was: I think he confuses me with a City Councillor in Oslo. But I'm more concerned with what kind of results we get. We see that emissions per vehicle in Norway are now falling sharply. It is because this government has continued and reinforced schemes that make it more attractive to buy low-emission cars. I see the representative Eidsvoll Holmås shaking his head, but it is a fact that more electric cars are being sold now than when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås himself sat in government. Improvements have been made to the ability to buy hybrid cars, low-emission cars. Biodiesel is now profitable for many companies to use, something that the previous government did unprofitably. Instead of getting up and talking about years, you should rather see what you actually achieve. Then one sees that we're achieving a lot, not by bothering with the number of years, but by actually implementing things. Low-emission zones were some of the Road Directorates themselves put forward a proposal in 2012, but as the previous government shrunk after two days. We are working to make the tool available to municipalities that want to use it, and we have not scolded it, as opposed to Eidsvoll Holmås’ party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e641	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e644	It is a long time before the 2017 government budget takes effect. Crisis in the yard industry is now. On 1 December last year, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ And... ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative to publish new ferry offers as early as possible, without concluding previously concluded contracts, in order to ensure a good time for the new construction and repair of ferries and scheduled boats.’ The intention of this was climate action, but also to give it a helping hand for a demanding period of time. And then we see no action. My question is, has His Highness the Council of State intended to wait until next year to get started with last year's decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e663	The President will draw attention to the fact that she does not allow that type of expression and that the representative asks questions to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e669	I note that this question also shows that one has not followed very well on what has happened, and I think it is stupid when we get a debate where one is more concerned about blacking the situation than about highlighting what is actually happening, regardless of whether we agree or disagree. I mentioned in my reply to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that through Enova has e.g. Hordaland got 270 million. kr to facilitate a new shuttle, which is low-emission or zero-emission by electrifying it. There's something other than the picture SV gives, where one gives the impression that nothing is happening. It's a little difficult to discuss how to solve major societal challenges if the counterparty deliberately fails to deal with what is actually being done. In the same way, the government has ensured that the Anda-Lote route, which is currently operated by one ferry, will in the future be operated by two ferries, which will increase frequency, one being the elder, the other being the low-emission or zero-emission, but one allowing the market to say what is possible. I would also like to point out that we have accelerated maintenance just to create activity at the shipyards, both within the Coast Guard and in other parts of the state's shipping operations. So there's a lot going on, even though it's far from solved the serious situation we're experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e682	Karianne O. Heavy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e685	NTB has just sent out a news notice where the head of the transport committee, Nikolai Astrup, says that the Right will now support the new law that will allow municipalities to establish low-carbon zones. It is an important and appropriate environmental action. The proposal will therefore also have a majority in this House. The proposal will include, inter alia: allow municipalities to charge for polluting vehicles, thereby allowing Oslo, Bergen and other Norwegian cities to introduce low-emission zones. It is probably not a well-kept secret that the Minister of Transport has not exactly been the greatest champion of the proposal, but I therefore allow myself to ask questions about the Council of State now asking behind the bill on municipal low-emission zones. And how will the Council of State work so that this proposal can now be realized as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e692	This is a very interesting theme. First, this has been discussed many times in Stortinget, and I perceive that Stortinget has said that this wants one, so here there's no news that Right also says that someone wants it. This government has actually asked the Directorate of Roads to help us design how such a law should be, and it's a completely natural process. What's interesting is that today's government has not neglected this work. On the other hand, similar work was scrapped by the representative Tungs party on 3 October 2012. Then the Directorate of Road came up with a bill like that. So the last government spent two days before the then state councillor Marit Arnstad went out to the media and said that this is a bad tool, it's not very accurate, there are other better tools. The fact that one scraps a bill in government, but believes that it's very urgent to implement it immediately when one comes into opposition, I don't think I'm entirely consistent with having a long-term approach to solving problems. I am concerned that we should ensure that we get low-emission and zero-emission cars. I think, based on the contact we have with what is happening in both Norway and the rest of the world, that this is happening very quickly, and then we're going to play along with the market and not run on and discuss legislative proposals like a self-scrupulous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e699	The size goes on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e703	My question goes to Minister of Culture Linda Hofstad Helleland. First, I want to pay tribute to the Council of State for the fact that she has managed to land a solution that contributes to more transparency in the use of money in sport, while now she has clearly stated that the breadth and volunteering should be protected locally and not be exposed to more bureaucracy and reporting. That's good, and it's supported. But I am also concerned about how the government spends its money. If there's something of the sport and the volunteering around the country really suffers, it's retarded at the refurbishment and construction of sports facilities. If the building lacks a hall, there won't be a handball environment. If there are no ice skaters, then there will be no hockey team. It's that simple and so difficult. Installations for approximately 2.4 billion. kr is approved and waiting for money. The working party has brought the sport into the state budget and started to cut the follow-up by 400 million. kr last year, as a start on a five-year plan. In the government’s 2016 budget, it was not set by a crown for sports facilities. The sports around the country were not only disappointed, but also surprised, because there has been no lack of promises. When this government said no to a new winter Olympics, there would instead be a lift for Norwegian sport. It hasn't happened. The sport has not received a crown from the government budget, as representatives of the government expressed expectations. On the contrary, this government has prioritised tax cuts rather than sports for children and young people. Does the Council of State think it is right to promise the universal service throughout the country the upgrading and construction of installations, so as not to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e716	It's a little bit difficult to understand that question, because there's someone who's really gotten increases now, it's sport, with a massive escalation in the last few years, under this government, and we've also seen that it's expressed joy on the part of sports. I see that both the sports president – former labour party politician – and the representative of Trettebergstuen say exactly the same thing: when the Right Group said no to the Olympics in Oslo, several billion were promised to installations and to sport. Yes, I even hear that the sports president refers to decisions or proposals, and I think it is a pity that the figure for sports in the Stortinget from the Workers' Party also refers to proposals that at least I have not seen. I might think that the debate takes a bit of a funny turn when you go out and tell the people that the Right Group said no to the Olympics, because they promised and suggested in the Storting that funds should be used for sports. We are stepping up, we are making a strong commitment to sport, but it would have been very interesting if the representative Trettebergstuen could have clarified what proposal she is referring to, and, if so, decisions, which show that the money that should have been spent on an OL will be spent on sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e725	The Council of State has shown earlier in this questionnaire that she does not understand the policy of gambling, and she obviously does not understand what money she is agreeing with here, when she says that the sport has been stepped up. It's the gambling money, that's the profit from Norwegian Typing, that's increased. It's money any government would have had. What's my question is what's about the government's excuse to say no to a new winter Olympic. It was said that they said no to a new Winter Olympics because they wanted to bet on a wide range across the country. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said the following when she took her position: ‘For me, this is not about saying no to an OL in Oslo. For us, it is about saying yes to major infrastructure projects, sports facilities, the strengthening of youth and youth sport throughout the country.’ [[...]] When I can't refer to any decision, that's exactly the whole point, because the Right and the Government haven't delivered on the promise they made to the sport. That's what the Workers' Party has done. We started with an escalator over five years, 400 million. kr in the last year's budget. The government has not granted one penny of the state budget for the sport. Does the Council of State admit that this was a bluff?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e739	I cannot admit that it was a bluff when reference was made to a proposal that has never been promoted in Stortinget, and when reference was made to statements, one cannot claim that it is a bluff. I hope I don't hear any more of it, because it's not right that there is any suggestion about it, even though the Workers' Party is trying to make people believe anything else. To what the representative started with, she was happy that it is now being cleaned up in sport: I am glad that the Workers' Party is coming on the track. The working party has been sitting quite quietly in this matter. I don't know if it has anything to do with the tight bands that are between the Workers' Party and central sports stops, and that it's been for a long time, but it's very special now when you see how the people react, in the circles and in the special groups. Everyone wants more transparency, they want to know what the money is spent on, and the Labour Party is sitting completely silent. It's amazing, but it also tells a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e746	There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e749	It is obvious that the Council of State did not follow very closely when Anette Trettebergstien started her question, where she expressed support for the grip that has now been taken, and where we have been clear that transparency in sport is important, but also that we should not get a development where at grassroots level there is even more pressure in relation to bureaucracy and state control. So there's a strong support for the grip that's now taken. We have not been sitting quietly in that boat at all. Many people were hoping for money for sport when representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, after it turned down to the Olympics, stated that they should bet on the width. Obviously, it was just words. The Council of State spends money that is the money of others – not the money of the Council of State. It's money that comes from the games. Then the question is asked again, because it has been asked earlier in this issue: what will the Council of State do to ensure that this growth can continue in the future, when we now see that both illegal games and the irregular market lead to less money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e758	The government has shown that we give priority to ensuring a good and predictable compensation scheme for local sports teams and associations. We also want to look at how the funds are distributed out there. It is also one of the reasons why we want transparency, also on what priorities underpinning some sports, especially in organised sport, are getting a lot of money, because the funds from Norway’s sports federations also need to benefit many of our other young people — especially many of those who come to our country and are much more active in self-organised sport. There must be not only a lot of football courses and football facilities you spend money on. One must also be concerned about what other children and young people are doing now, so that we get young people and children in action. That's why we're doing a bigger job on this, and we're going to come back to how we want to align it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e763	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e766	It's true, as the Council of State says, that good, predictable arrangements are very important. We know that, in the case of the VAT refund scheme for sports facilities, applications have been made for approx. 200 million. kr this year, and we know that the government has budgeted 143 million. kr. The central party proposed and got a majority here in the Chamber that the government should investigate a regulatory arrangement, and the disappointment was great when the government returned to the state budget for 2016 and said that no, we do not want that anyway. So there is less money in the budget this year than what is needed. That is, there are some sports associations now that will get a curtailment in their VAT refund scheme. I wonder if the Council of State believes it is fair that two similar projects should be treated differently, depending on whether an applicant for VAT refund in 2015 or 2016 respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e773	It is an interesting question that the representative asks, and that is quite right: the amount of applications received is 200 million. NOK and 410 applications have already been received. It only testifies to a violent activity out there in our communities, and it is seen that building facilities are absolutely necessary for children and young people — and to the extent that adults — to have an active life. Combined with changes to the key, the scheme has created better conditions for site development under the law. But to the question asked by the representative, there is something we want to look at, so it is not perceived that the scheme is unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e780	Ola Elvesuen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e784	I have strong nostalgia for the OL application after having been responsible for its preparation for two years in Oslo. I have to say with modesty that it is the best OL request ever made – and also the night – that could have been delivered to the IOC. Now, fortunately, that's the way it is, and it has to do with the quality of it, that there are investments that are made. Oslo Municipality does this, you follow up with a completely necessary hockey facility on Earth, and there are other things that come out of that application. We have arrangements, including: against national sports facilities, and my question is then: is the Council of State prepared to enter into their facilities, and also with an increased commitment? Because there are different projects around the country. It's the velodrome in the Stavanger area, and it's other areas where you need to. The question is: Can a national strategy be adopted against these national facilities, in order to take on a greater national role?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e791	Thank you for the question. National plants are very expensive, but we also see that there are many other plants around the country that are extremely expensive, which become too heavy to carry alone, and for which extra funds must be available. That's why I think it's an interesting question the representative asks about how we can look at a more general strategy to assess our national facilities as a whole. Now it can be said that our national facilities are largely linked to very traditional Norwegian sports, such as skiing and jumping, but we see for example. in the West that a bicycle velodrom is desirable – it is also one here in the East. They are extremely expensive, and then there may have to be another kind of funding to raise this. I'm taking the tape from the representative Elvesuen further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e802	So the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e814	There will be one change in the set-up question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in that context. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e827	This question, from the representative Marianne Aasen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e830	«Minister of State Erna Solberg is Head of the Government's Research Committee. Are they opinions on research in the farming industry in general and the requirements for research of the Institute of Marine Research specifically expressed by the Minister of Fisheries in the media, in line with government's knowledge and research policy?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e842	We have recently had a debate and headline in the media related to the independence of research, and I think it is good that, among other things. Academia representatives raise this issue. It also gives us the opportunity to repeat the government's policy. I've emphasized that several times in the last few days, and I'll do it again here. It is government policy that research should not be governed politically. Research must be professionally independent in order to have value. It is absolutely essential for society's confidence in research, research and research results that we hold back on the independence of research and that results are not censored by contracting entities or authorities. It is also important that research results are verified and verified, but it is essential that we respect the principle of research independence and academic freedom in order to maintain confidence in research results. This principle has also been clarified by the Minister for Fisheries Per Sandberg, among others. in the Evening Post on 2 April. There should therefore be no doubt about government policy in this area. It is important to explore issues related to the development of the breeding industry. Norway is generally a small research nation on a global scale, but we are a significant contributor to fisheries and aquaculture research. This position is important that we take good care of and develop further. We do that by ensuring that research is professionally independent in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e851	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I understand that the transition from being an opposition politician to becoming a state council may be tough, but the ability to correct problematic signals when one has created uncertainty about government policy, obviously does not automatically follow with the state council's title. The Minister of Fisheries, the Chief Director of the Institute of Marine Research, said that HI should be nutritious and that it should share the government's ambitions for growth. It's a problematic statement; it created strong reactions. The government's challenge is that the Minister for Fisheries has not withdrawn a comma in his opinions. On the contrary, he chose to repeat them, even after massive criticism. Research can be nutritional, it cannot, and should not be, nutritious. At least it cannot be both free and independent, to which the Minister of Knowledge now refers, and at the same time business-friendly. So the question is, is it the Minister of Science's view of research policy or is it the Minister of Fisheries's view that is now to apply to HI and other research institutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e860	I think it's important that we stick to what's at the heart of this. It is not a question of choice of words, but of the principle on which research should be based. And here there is no disagreement between the Minister of Fisheries and me. There is also no disagreement between the Minister for Fisheries and the Prime Minister. The research is not to be directed. If the research results are to be of any value, research must be professionally independent. It is, of course, legitimate and right that we have some priorities in our research policy, and the whole of the Storting is behind us, for example. states that we are going to research on climate technologies, or that oceans are an important area for research. But that does not mean that politicians or other parts of the public should intervene in how research is carried out. Research results must be governed by one thing, and only one thing, and that is the search for what is the truth, what the facts and the evidence say.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e867	I appreciate the position of the Minister of Knowledge on this issue. The challenge is that the Minister for Fisheries himself has created uncertainty. We have all received criticism from both the Research Association and the principals of large, heavy institutions such as the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen when the Minister of Fisheries said that the Institute of Marine Research should be nutritious and share the government's ambitions for growth. It is an eye-catching view of research and of the independence of these institutions. The problem with the Fisheries Minister's statements is that it potentially weakens the credibility and legitimacy of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and future reports that may come from there, that it may now be interpreted in a different light in the light of the statements of the Minister for Fisheries, on which he thus stands, despite the assurances of the Minister for Knowledge. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge: Is it such that, in the opinion of the Minister of Research, a government council in Solberg can say that research or institutions should be industry-friendly and share the government's ambitions for growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e876	I'm not going to move into interpretations of what other states have said, I'm just going to make it very simple that when you have said something – the Minister for Fisheries has done – which can also be understood as if you want to direct research in some way, it's absolutely essential that you quickly make clear what is government policy and what is the basis for research. That is why the Minister for Fisheries has also said several times that he has never – and will not or will not – believed that this means that the professionalism of research should be governed politically. So back to my main response, which is that there is no disagreement between me and the Minister for Fisheries or between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Fisheries about the professional independence of research. It's about the core of the credibility of research. If you want something else, you have to go to a public relations agency or make an order report that shows the conclusion you want. It has nothing to do with science, and it's not just a sunny starting point, it's what the government's policy is based on, and that's what the Minister for Fisheries says.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e887	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The Minister of State and Government has honoured Oslo Cancer Cluster as a leading international cluster in research and testing of new cancer medicine. [[OCC]] Nevertheless, the OCC has received a refusal from Innovation Norway to support the Global Center of Expertise scheme, and has also been informed that the support from the Norwegian Center of Expertise will fall from 2017. It is stated that this is due to control signals from the owners. How will the government ensure that the pavement of the OCC is followed up with support to ensure continued operation and development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e896	Thank you for the question. Oslo Cancer Cluster was appointed as the Norwegian Centre of Expertise in June 2007 and under State aid law, by virtue of which Norway is obliged by the EEA Agreement, a ceiling of 10 years has been set for operating aid to innovation clusters. This means that such aid amounting to 5 million. kr annually, will fall off for Oslo Cancer Cluster on 1 July 2017. It will then be up to the members of the cluster to finance further operations of it. As of today, there are more than 50 companies and approx. 15 R & D and education institutions that are members of the Oslo Cancer Cluster. My impression is that Oslo Cancer Cluster has had very good results and good uproar from the cluster's partners. It provides a good basis for the cluster to continue after 2017, without State operating aid. In this context, I would like to stress that the cluster organisation will be able to continue to receive support for concrete projects of expertise and innovation from the cluster programme after this date, but not operational support. I can tell you that the three GCE clusters that have so far been appointed do not receive operating support. NCE clusters may continue to use the NCE name after the end of the contractual period provided that cluster cooperation continues at a high and professional level. In the case of business participants in the cluster, these too could normally receive support through schemes in the Research Council and Innovation Norway, such as: User-driven innovation arena, FORNY2020 and the research and development contract scheme. These are arrangements that this government has strongly strengthened from 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e909	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a center, a cluster, which has got a lot of praise. The Prime Minister has been there, Health Council Bent Höie has been there, and I know that the Minister of Industry is also going to visit there, and it is very positive that they are getting that attention. But it's important to understand that this cluster, Oslo Cancer Cluster, wants to be a platform for the very small start-up environments, which have little to contribute at first. They want to equalise them, give them space in laboratories, in the incubator, in the innovation park and in the environment they have built up. They are based on a limited quota on which everyone can participate and will not be based on a single large contribution or which may lead to the favoritism of individual parties. So I would like to ask whether the Council of State will look at the following: When you succeed in developing clusters and the NCE system cannot be used further, will you be able to put in place other, more targeted instruments to continue working on developing clusters?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e920	We fully agree on the importance of clusters, and it was even Prime Minister Erna Solberg as the municipal minister who introduced the cluster programmes, in the time of the Bondevik II government. We've introduced a new level of clusters. In addition to NCE, we introduced a higher level, i.e. GCEs, which I know Oslo Cancer Cluster has also applied for. Now it is that these applications are treated in an independent and professional way – that is not something we control politically – but it is the next step after NCE status. But we are thus bound by state aid rules, which we must deal with. It also has to be Oslo Cancer Cluster, but there are a number of schemes that both the cluster, the companies in the cluster and the research institutions in the cluster can apply for, and I would encourage them to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e929	I thank you for the additional reply as well. There's something striking here. When VG presented the new Norwegian cancer industry related to Oslo Cancer Cluster on 28 February of this year, Innovation Norway’s Managing Director said in the review of this environment: "We're at a crossroads, and we have to decide that this is where we're going to push." Then it's funny that next time you can't find any follow-up to the NCE system, which will no longer be supported, and that you reject the application for the Global Centre of Expertise. The criteria for the Global Centre of Expertise scheme have led to the aid being granted to companies in the oil and gas sector, i.e. more traditional industries, while what was supposed to be a fanatic for the government – to invest in new knowledge industries – has not been supported. So I want to ask if the Council of State will look at the criteria of the Global Centre of Expertise scheme so that they can better hit these kinds of environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e941	It's not that we don't want to support, it's that we're tied up, and this is predictable for all the clusters – also for Oslo Cancer Cluster, which will have been supported for ten years, in fact, unlike the three GCEs. Nor is it the case that the three GCEs are exclusively based on oil and gas. We have one that goes on marine industries linked to the West, and I think the sea is one of the areas we're really going to bet on in the future. The next level after NCE is the GCE, and there's a professional independence there that I have every reason to trust, and I'll encourage Oslo Cancer Cluster to apply again. Then of course we can look at the criteria if there is a basis for that. I don't know about that yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e952	‘In the National Health and Hospital Plan, Stortinget decided that urban rental should be the general rule in Norwegian hospitals. Health More and Romesdal HF have decided not to introduce quiet rental. Does the Council of State think that the fact that an entire enterprise does not introduce a quiet lease in any of its hospitals is in line with the Stortinget's decision, and will the Council of State intervene against the companies that do not introduce a quiet lease in their hospitals?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e959	The aim of the work of the National Health and Hospital Plan was to give the Storting the best possible insight into the status and challenges of the specialist health service and to invite the Stortinget to provide overall guidance on how hospitals will develop in the future. The representative Toppe refers to Storting’s treatment, which includes: the following majority proposals were adopted: ‘The decision asks the government through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that local management becomes the general rule in Norwegian hospitals.’ The representative Toppe goes on to refer to the work of Health More and Romsdal on a new organisational model and believes that the health company does not follow up the Storting decision to introduce local management. Health Mid-Norway has informed the Ministry that in the autumn of 2015 Health Møre and Romsdal carried out an evaluation of their own organisation and management of the health business. The evaluation showed that there was a need for an organisational review. Several models have been identified and, following the consultation round, the conclusion was to introduce a transversal model to ensure the local management of the individual hospital and institution of the healthcare establishment. The aim is to develop good treatment provision, overall management and to ensure efficient operation. When the Stortinget dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan, I expressed my commitment to better and clearer management in hospitals, including: to ensure good communication and closeness to the Chairperson. I will follow up the Storting's decision on local management in the business meeting with the regional health companies on 4 May. I think it is important to clarify that transversal models are not necessarily contrary to the principle of local management. For example, Ringerich hospitals, which are raised by many in this discussion, have cross-sectional clinics. The law's requirements for hospital management are that there should be uniform management at all levels to ensure clear responsibilities. At the same time, health businesses have the opportunity to design management models that adapt local needs, complexity and size within the framework set by the Stortinge. I have faith that both Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal intend to follow up the Storting's intentions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e977	The answer from the Council of State is very unclear. When the Stortinget adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan just before Easter, I perceive that there was a great deal of agreement in this room that urban rental should be the main rule in Norwegian hospitals. Location rental is one of two main ways to organize rentals. It is described in the setting: localised rental or transverse. Now, Health More and Romesdal have proposed, on the same day as the Storting decided to introduce the Sickness Plan, a hybrid with more clinic organisation, which is to be used at the same time as a quiet lease. Does the Council of State mean that what Health Moor and Romesdal suggest is actually in line with what the majority of the great crowd meant?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e986	I would like to remind the representative Toppe that the Central Party made a different proposal when it came to local management, in the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan, which locked the solution for one to have one local manager in each business, who had all the responsibility for both medical, professional and financial matters. That proposal was defeated. Therefore, one cannot take on board a proposal that was voted down when assessing the follow-up to what the Stortinge has actually decided. In the setting up of the National Health and Hospital Plan, the majority refers to the model in the Vestre Viken. I perceive that the model that is now for discussion, in Møre and Romsdal, is very much based on the same principles as the model in Ringerijk Hospital – which several, not least representatives from the Center Party, have developed as a very good solution. I have hardly heard a single Senterparti representative talk about hospitals in the last two years without referring to Ringerige Hospital. And now one presents the management model as if it were against these intentions. This is the management model that the Center Party has repeatedly developed as a very good model.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e993	I think it is quite alarming if the Council of State believes that what is proposed in Health More and Romesdal is similar to what is in the West Week. You don't think that is right. In the West Viken, the city leader does not have responsibility for the X-ray service and the laboratory, but there is no clinical organization in the major fields – surgery and medicine. There is something quite different that is suggested in More and Romesdal, where they expand the clinic management and even have to have their own clinic organization on anaesthesia. A quiet tenant in such a system will not be responsible for any of what is actually happening in the hospital. If this is what the Council of State thinks is similar to the West Viken, I'm totally disagreeable. If the Council of State wants to introduce the principle of Ring Kingdom into Health More and Romesdal, I'm happy, so I'd like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1000	What I am concerned about is that health companies are following up on what they are going to do in their mission on 4 May, namely to establish local management in line with the leaders that Stortinget has given. In those leaderships, it is open to different models, including cross-cutting organisation. There's something that's going to be followed up, so there's going to be local management of the different businesses. That's what's going to be the assignment. I believe that this includes, among other things: the principles which also lie in the Western Viking model, to which the Storting itself has referred as a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1009	‘According to the new regulation developed by the framework programme committee for primary school teacher training, it will no longer be possible to specialise in pedagogics or special pedagogics. The five-year teacher training will provide a master qualification, but the depression must be in a so-called ‘educational discipline’. The Council of State has stated that the ‘Future School’ of the Ludvigsen Committee will not be given a central place in education. Are the government councils concerned about the consequences of the lack of specialist educators in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1016	The representative, Nybø, asks me if I am concerned about the consequences of a lack of specialised educators in the future. The simple answer to that could have been yes, because a knowledge minister will always be concerned if there is a lack of competence in society, and especially in school. However, there are some premises in the question of the new primary school teacher education that are not correct, and the answer will not be that simple either. There are no fewer opportunities to acquire knowledge and competence in pedagogics and special pedagogics in the new master’s programme. Master's in special education is currently being given as his or her own education. It is not possible to train for special education and neither in today's primary school teacher training nor within the proposal we have sent to the hearing. The proposal therefore does not in itself mean that we have reduced access to specialised educators. Today it is that after taking primary school teacher training, you can take a master's degree in special education. Similarly will be the case with new five-year master's training for teachers. The problem – the reason why this comes up – is that it will be a year longer, and that you will have to take a master at the top of a master. With our proposal it will also be possible to continue to choose 30 credits in a school-oriented subject, and here special educational subjects can be an alternative. At this point, we are continuing today's primary school teacher education. An important new element of the new primary school teacher training is the master’s task. Although these should be in the field of education, there will also be a good opportunity here to include special educational themes and knowledge in the tasks. New education must use elements from the different disciplines, from teaching, pedagogics and special pedagogics, so that students get the learning outcomes they need. Then we're going to have a significantly higher ambition for the new teacher training. Students must meet higher expectations and learn more. It will also apply to the special educational components of the training. In summary, therefore, I believe that our proposal does not reduce access to people with masters in special pedagogics. Candidates from primary school teachers who so wish will come out with more special pedagogical competence. Experience also suggests that many students want to include this type of competence in their education. It must also be said that the proposal for new framework plans has been being consulted now, and we will use the consultation input we have received, and consider how we can make the framework plan even better. As regards the follow-up to the Ludvigsen Committee, it is not quite clear to me what the representative is aiming for. There may be an answer to a question I got from the Pedagogical Students, which I had last week, where I said the opposite. I said correctly that the Ludvigsen Committee is coming after we started working on our big message, but that it has also been one of the basic documents from which the framework plan committee has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1035	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I have received a number of concerns from professionals about this with special pedagogics, and they are concerned that it is not being looked at in the same way as other masters that you can take. I assume that the Council of State has received even more enquiries about it than I have. There are quite heavy actors who are in there and believe something about this, among other things. people who work in teacher training, the Reading Centre – there are heavy players who are now concerned. I would like to hear the council say a little more about what he thinks when heavy professionals go in and worry about such a concrete thing. Is the Council willing to think again and consider allowing special pedagogy as a master, on the same line as math, Norwegian, etc.? Because as the council itself said, it's at the hearing now, and there's been a recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1044	The whole point of a hearing is just getting recorded and having a debate. That also means that we're going to look at the hearings that we're getting, for example. related to masters in special pedagogy. It is important to sort anyway, because today’s primary school teacher education cannot be specialised in special education – it’s a master at the top of it. The advantage of not having a special pedagogical master, but having it on top, is that then you get both full teaching skills and special pedagogics at the top. Then I realize that the problem arises, because the new master's education will then become a master's education, and this will increase it by a year. At the same time, it is not unproblematic to receive special education, but to reduce education by one year. Today it's six years, four years of GLU and then two years of masters, then it's going to be five years. Then I will also insist that the most important promise of the new master's education is linked to the teaching subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1055	Thank you again for your answer. In the left we are concerned with the pedagogues, the ones who are going to teach our kids things. Learning people to learn is a challenge in itself, and one of the topics that often arise in the political debate is reading and writing. Having teachers who are able to see students who have challenges like reading and writing difficulties, language difficulties, and could do something about it – being the teacher in the classroom who can address such specific issues – we depend on having good educators to get to. Does the Council of State think that the pedagogical weight of the new teacher training is large enough for us to be able to deal with the problems so that each teacher can see the students they have in the classroom and follow up on the difficulties they might have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1062	Thanks for following up questions. I think once again that it's important to separate, because we also need specialized educators in the future, for all. Today, special teachers are employed, and special educators will also be employed in the future. But the most important thing is that all teachers who are trained have an opportunity to see and at least have a kind of basic toolbox to follow up, for example. students with difficulty in reading and writing. A little anecdotal, but still: I have met teachers who say that in their teacher training dyslexia – reading and writing difficulties – and dyscalculia were hardly affected. One of the things about which the setting of the Framework Programme Committee, which has then been consulted, is that it should be clarified in teacher training for all, and that teachers should be given a better toolbox to be able to handle these students. So it also means that some of these students will need special follow-up in addition to ordinary education, but I think this should be done better in the new teacher training than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1075	‘We have seen a large increase in the proportion of mental distress and suffering such as stress, anxiety and depression among young people, and especially girls. Prevention and early detection of such symptoms are important from a public health and socio-economic perspective. The classroom is a well-suited arena for this, and the teacher will be able to play a central role. How will the new teacher training enable teachers to detect and deal with mental and psychosomatic disorders and disorders of students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1082	I agree with what I consider to be the starting point of the representative Kjeseth. High quality in school is perhaps the most important authority that can contribute, both to ensure each and every one a good starting point in life and to ensure that everyone can contribute to society in the long term. An important part of this is how teachers can detect mental distress and cooperate with other actors to deal with it. Teacher training must provide a good basis for the competence of teachers in this field. In our proposal for a framework plan, this is primarily taken care of by what is called learning outcomes descriptions. This is a requirement for what candidates should be able to do once they have completed their education. For example, they shall have knowledge of children in difficult situations of life, including knowledge of violence and sexual abuse against children, children’s rights in a national and international perspective and of how the school, in cooperation with senior and external bodies, can care for children with special needs. They shall also be able to identify specific needs of children, including identifying signs of violence or sexual assault, and in the light of professional judgements, candidates shall be able to take the necessary action quickly, preferably in cooperation with other bodies. They shall be able to take responsibility, on a professional basis, for the development and management of inclusive, creative, safe and health-promoting learning environments, where training is adapted to the needs of different students. I believe this makes clear demands on teacher training. At the same time, my starting point is that we from central authorities should avoid overly detailed governance of education. We have therefore commissioned the National Council for Teacher Training to develop complementary guidelines. In this area, education is working with other actors to further develop education. Proposals for framework plans have been consulted, with a deadline of 1 April, and we are now going through well over 100 inputs and are going to use them well to assess how we can make the framework plans even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1091	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring to have a strong focus on this, and I also hope that the field of practice is involved, so that they have the opportunity to learn along the way, and not just theory. Interaction with other actors, referred to by the Council of State in its response. We are in a situation in 2016 where Norway is actually running out of health sisters. We don't have the opportunity to increase capacity in particular by the number that is being trained today. A report from the Health Directorate shows that the need is going to increase in the future. In secondary schools in Norway today, a total of three male health sisters work, and it shows that there is a high gender inequality. There's a big search and there's a few places. There's a lot of tear about becoming a health sister. The next question is: Is the Council willing to increase the number of places for health-sister training and, where appropriate, to quota more men?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1102	There is likely to be even greater tear because the four co-operation parties have invested heavily in the health and school health care services, both through funds to the municipalities, with the expectation that this will be done, and through earmarked funds now at the latest budgetary settlement. We already see that this leads to more health sisters being hired. So there's two, unfortunately, a little bit more general answers to this with places of study. The first is that at any time we have to consider whether we should give extra space for some studies that we have an extra big need, but it is also worth being aware that there are a lot of wants from more. The second and at least equally important principle of the higher education system is that institutions have great autonomy, autonomy, and not least the Left is concerned with it. It also means that some of their responsibilities are to respond to changing framework conditions out there, and you can see that the need is increasing, you have to look through your portfolio and see if there are studies you need to create more places on, and then you get a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1111	I thank you for your answer. It is clearly a challenge when there are many actors who are going to employ and also to address the needs that are out there, and the higher education sector has a responsibility to follow up in its regions. Then I have to say that both the health care nurse training, perhaps nurse training, as well as partly the teacher training, have had to live both a little regional life and a little by itself without perhaps too much attention to the need, and the nursing training in Norway is very different, so it is its case. One of the Left's proposals is better cooperation between the so-called PP service and health and school health services to strengthen interaction and to give more support to the teachers in the classroom. Today, this is somewhat fragmented, and not all schools have access to that competence in their own school, and there is a lot of follow-up for the teachers who have to run between them. Does the Council of State see it as a current possibility, a stronger cooperation between the PPT and the school health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1120	I never, I think, in my years as a populist, met an area where I don't think better interaction, cooperation or dialogue between different parts of the public is a very good idea. There has been a conversion of Statped, which the previous government started, as among other things. The aim is for Statped to work more clearly with the school owner in order to provide a better offer in this way. We are also now assessing whether Statped clearers will be given a responsibility to work systemically. This will also mean, at least potentially, closer cooperation with other parts of the public sector. And then I think here, as in a lot of other areas, there's a big difference between the municipalities. Someone has put this on the agenda and gets it done, and then we have to be able to learn from those who have got it and do it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1129	‘Norway has built up a strong educational research environment in the last ten years. With the new regulation from the framework selection for primary school education, it will be impossible for students to take a master's degree in pedagogics or special education, and they will not be able to advance to PhD. or become teachers themselves. What will the State Council do to ensure the educational research environment after the implementation of a new regulation for the basic school curriculum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1136	It is true that in recent years a strong educational research environment has been built in Norway. The Government contributes, among other things: through FINNUT, a large, long-term research programme covering the entire education sector, which aims to mobilise widely among relevant research environments, including the research environments of teacher training. However, I disagree with the premise that a person with a master's degree cannot take a doctorate and become a teacher himself. I believe that the new five-year teacher training will help to increase the recruitment basis for doctoral education in education because all primary school teachers now receive a master's degree. It is right that the draft consultation draft framework for five-year primary school teacher training should provide for the master’s gradation of the students to be in the field of education or in initial training. However, there should be no contradiction between deepening a school curriculum and addressing issues related to, for example: class management, behavioural difficulties or bullying. An elementary school teacher master is not an obstacle to applying for admission to a doctoral programme in the field of education. Most PhD programmes in education science have admission requirements that relate to today’s educational structure, and even with today’s admission requirements, the new primary school teachers will qualify for admission. The quality of the project for which admission to the PhD programme is sought weighs heavily in an overall assessment of funding, educational background and the likelihood that the project will be feasible. It will be fully possible for an elementary school teacher with five years of elementary school education and with master’s degree programme in a special educational or pedagogical subject to develop an exciting PhD project in pedagogics or special pedagogics and to be admitted to a PhD programme in education. Today’s admission requirements may be somewhat more difficult to qualify for the PhD programme in the field of pedagogics and special pedagogics. It is up to the institutions to determine and adapt the admission requirements to their doctoral programmes, but for example: The University of Agder has already set up five years of elementary school teacher education as one of the masters who provide the basis for admission to the doctoral programme, specialisation in pedagogy. It is not a requirement to have a doctorate in special education or pedagogy to become a teacher. What has been researched has an impact on teacher training in the assessment of a post-secondary or first-time position. It is the institutions that assess the kind of skills they need and that assign staff, but I would assume that teachers with research education will be attractive to teacher training. In addition to the research environments associated with teacher training, there are alternative research environments in pedagogics and special pedagogics. I can therefore not see that any of these research environments will be reduced after the implementation of the five-year primary school teacher education, rather on the contrary. They give several pathways into educational research and thus also into the educational research communities. I believe that we are now fully opening up a new and important career path when teachers can take a master, move on to a PhD. and, where appropriate, become a teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1153	Thanks for the answer. I read the State Council so that he thinks that today's relationship between pedagogics – after one has expanded the teacher's education to five years – and the other subjects in the teacher's education care well enough what was the background to the main question. But there is no doubt that some of the concerns that a person is registering are precisely that the ratio that is currently in disfavor of pedagogics causes those who really want to deepen and become good before the subject of pedagogics, rather than the teacher education. In this respect, the follow-up question to the Council of State is: does he think that teacher training as a vocational training course should have and has a good enough role to play in recruiting for pedagogical research?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1158	It is true that a five-year primary school teacher’s education could risk having to take a master’s degree in pedagogics or special pedagogics in order to qualify for a doctoral programme in pedagogics, for example. on NTNU, according to today’s admission criteria. But then it is important to be aware that the different PhD programmes themselves determine the recording criteria and evaluate and adapt them to what happens in the lower stages. As I mentioned, at the University of Agder, there is a five-year primary school teacher education. It is considered to be one of several relevant masters who qualify applicants to apply for admission to the Ph.D. programme in pedagogy specialisation. To conclude, I would like to say once again that the consultation round was completed on 1 April. I'm answering why we've sent out the way we've done, but it's also natural, when we get a lot of input, that we evaluate them thoroughly and see if there's anything we're going to do about it. It's still open to it, but no guarantees, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1165	Once again, I thank you for your reply to the Council of State. A little follow-up question in the extension of what he said now: What does the Council of State think or my mind in that case will be the most important step in ensuring that we also have good enough teachers at the teacher's training in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1170	As I also said in my main reply: It is important to stress that both with the structural reform in higher education and with the new master's education, teachers in teacher training are not only specialists with e.g. a doctorate in pedagogy. It may also be doctoral degrees, immersion in other disciplines, and the new teacher training must balance the expertise, teaching and pedagogics in a good way. And all three of them have to be involved, all three of them professional environments -- or, the more they really are, because the professional environments are of course math, Norwegian etc. etc. But all the professional environments need to be involved in order to receive a well-qualified teacher training. But, as I said, we also look at the issues we have been raised in the summary of the hearing, and we will end up with a conclusion. But we're still going to have good recruitment for teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1179	The question to the Minister of Knowledge is: ‘In accordance with the Training Act, school managers shall have pedagogical competence and ‘necessary management characteristics’. There are no formal training requirements beyond this. Principal training courses have been established in several places in the country, with the provision of further education in school management. Competence requirements have been introduced for teachers. The school management has the overall professional, educational and administrative responsibility for the students. What does the Council of State think about the need to step up schoolleader and principal education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1188	The escalation of schoolleader and principal education can be understood in various ways. This may include an increase in the number of places, an extension of the scope of the study, or even a requirement for school managers to have this education. The assessment of these options must be based on what we know about the importance of the school manager's competence in order for students to learn more and on the experience we have with the teaching of the principal. Research shows that well-functioning and committed school management plays a major role in the functioning of cooperation between teachers and in good teaching practices. Furthermore, we know that school management has a major impact on students' learning and learning environments. We also see that good school management is essential for the best possible impact of state investment in schools. Through the teacher's promise, the government has launched an extensive commitment to teachers' skills. In order to be able to influence what is happening in the classroom and to provide the best possible learning for each student, we depend on the high quality of education and administrative management in schools. Just because school management is important and crucial for students’ learning, this government has continued to train the principal for five new years from 2015. In addition to the approximately 2,800 who have already participated, 500 started in the harvest. So 500 new principals and other principals in school get every year the opportunity to further develop and build on their skills. Rector training receives good feedback, and the evaluation of the measure shows that there is reason to claim that increased leadership skills have contributed to improving the quality of many Norwegian schools. But then back to the question of the need to step up schoolleader and principal education. I am not sure that increasing the number of places is the most accurate measure. There are several challenges I think we need to think more about. One challenge is that although the school owner is responsible for the relevant and proper competence of the school manager, many municipalities do not give priority to the teaching of the principal. Then we have to discuss what it takes for more people to see the importance of good school management. Another challenge is that the competence needs of the Vice-Chancellors may vary. Many already have formal education in organisation and management and will not need all that a principal training contains. Although the content of teacher training is good, most will also need to refresh knowledge and skills at regular intervals. Over the past few years, the principals who complete principal’s training have been offered the opportunity to continue sharing their experiences and learn from others under the direction of the Education Directorate. This is a measure on which we should build further. I have notified a major report on school ownership and school development in 2017. Here I want, among other things. assess the requirements and expectations we should place on the qualifications of school managers and school managers, and how we can contribute through state competence measures to enable them to acquire the skills they need to ensure good quality in the training of each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1203	I thank you for your answer. It was a good description of the situation as it is today, and of the importance of school management. It's not just about offering a rector's education, but it's just as much about how that competence is put into practice. I interpret the answer in such a way as to address the issue of whether it is necessary to make demands, but without really taking a clear stand. Then there will be the question to the Council of State: Is there a need to make demands? If you make demands, on the other hand you may have to expand with the offer of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1210	Yes, that's a requirement for school leaders today, just so they're told. But the question is, should we have demands related to the school manager's and principal's education that we have? The answer is "probably". This is one of the issues we come back to Stortinget in early 2017. The starting point for this government and this majority is that competence is almost always a good idea, that filling up competences is almost always a good idea. At the same time, there are discussions about this, for example: it shall apply to new Vice-Chancellors or to all. The principal programme is not necessarily tailor-made for the individual. It may be that the principals have, for example, organisational experience or experience of organisational management, and consequently adjustments must be made on the basis of it. What I can say is that the principal and principal programs are very good. We're still doing that. I don't think it's going to be gone in the future either. I'm more than open to discussion about whether it should be expanded or... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1217	I thank you for that answer too. I have great respect for the fact that ‘maybe’ is a preliminary answer – there is an opening – but I want to take a slightly different angle. We have now had the annual ranking of secondary schools, which showed quite large differences, and large geographical differences, in the results between secondary schools. Now I know Oslo best, where I've worked before. I think there have been good improvements in high school performance, but a lot is about school management. Then my question is: does the Council have any national measures aimed at those regions that need an extra effort? Among other things, Finnmark scores low on these rankings. More effort is needed where you see a need for it, a national effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1224	A little clarification: We have ordered a research report, not an annual ranking. The whole point of this research report is that it doesn't just look at the school's results, but it controls what the students brought with them when they came in. That means that what the research report shows, to put it very simply, given the starting point of the students, is who, based on what you check, is the best person to lift the students. I have been very clear that I believe that the government's instrument needs to focus more on those municipalities and the counties who need extra support, those who have persistently weak school results over time. This will be one of the pillars of the big message that will come in 2017 and which, hopefully, can be supported, at least among the cooperation parties, and especially if the Left is also committed to targeting more of the efforts towards those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1235	‘Mobbing is a common problem in Norwegian schools and can be difficult to deal with. Today, the school will take individual decisions on bullying, but there is no requirement for school management to have competence in the field. What does the Council of State think about including bullying in school leadership education, so that each school has enough competence to detect and manage bullying in a good way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1242	The cooperation parties and the government have done a lot to combat bullying, but we have to – and we have to – do more. A good learning environment, where students feel safe and protected, is a prerequisite for well-being and learning, but unfortunately it turns out in several cases, just as the representative Farstad describes, that demanding challenges in learning environments are not handled in a good way. In the Training Act, there is absolutely no concrete requirement for the school manager’s competence to lead the school’s work to develop learning environments and prevent and manage bullying. Nor do I think it is natural that the law specifies the competence requirements for school managers at such a level of detail. But it's obvious that management is responsible for the learning environment at school. It involves both providing good information on how students experience the school, managing school prevention and dealing with possible bullying when they occur. Against this background, the competence to develop the educational environment of the school is part of the content of state-funded education. The training framework, established by the Directorate, states that the training should include this theme. All the principal training is based on this framework, and it is the basis of all the university and higher education institutions providing the training — seven in total. Each year, 500 places are provided, and to date about 2 800 school leaders have completed the education. In addition, there are about 500 participants who complete the autumn 2016. The government has long been concerned with improving the learning environment in schools, and we will further strengthen this effort now. The Education Directorate shall develop a school and kindergarten competence package to support the work against bullying and for a good learning environment. This is partly a continuation of previous work in the learning environment field and partly a new approach and is a follow-up to the investigation by the Djupedal Committee. It is within the professional base of our efforts for a good learning environment that organisation and management are central to success. In addition to achieving all schools, the effort shall be targeted, and in schools with major challenges, the capacity of management and organisations to address challenges and develop learning environments needs to be strengthened in order to have an impact on empowerment. Local authorities with the main challenges will be given priority, and they will receive targeted support. Both the school owner and the headmaster are central to this effort. The online resources that will be further developed and that will reach all schools will meet both the management perspective and the competence needs of other employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1253	Thanks for the answer. I would like to comment that I think it is nice that the Left and the Government parties have a good dialogue on this matter. It's also good, what the Council of State has to say here, is that a lot of school leaders have trained in this area, but is that enough? A natural follow-up question for me then becomes if the Council of State believes that the school administration in Norway is now sufficiently equipped to deal with the responsibilities of an extended duty of activity in bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1260	The answer to whether that is enough is no. Today's situation is not good enough. Our ultimate goal must be nothing less than a zero vision in anti- bullying policy as well. At least we have to have at least a minimum measure that those who report bullying at school feel that they are being cared for, and that all measures are taken to end bullying – not in a month, or in a few weeks, but immediately after that. This means that in the follow-up to the Djupedal Committee, not only can there be legislative changes, but there must also be packages of competence, schools, schools, which follow up exactly the representative of Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1267	I want to thank you for that answer, too, and I want to show you a little bit about the Djupedal Committee. In the discussion of Document 8:38 S for 2015–2016, a unanimous KUF committee showed that the Ministry of Knowledge has announced a comprehensive follow-up to the report of the NOU, i.e. the Djupedal Committee. I realized that the Council of State has said in the past that he does not want to give a big message on the subject, so my question becomes quite concrete: in what form does the whole follow-up come?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1274	The overall follow-up will take the form of a description of the measures we are planning. Then there will be a billing proposal for the Storting, and then it will be followed up in future budgets. The reason I have chosen not to deliver a big message on this is simply because many of these proposals are well described, it has been a thorough round both before and after the Djupedal Committee. And if you go for a big message, you just spend an extra time, because then the big message has to come first and then the Storting has to deal with it before you can go directly to, for example. legislative proposals and matters. It is also in line with that sample, at least with what Djupedal himself recommended, that one should go straight to dealing with matters and not via a big message. So I would like to take the opportunity to wish the Left a really good national meeting!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1287	‘Norway is a leading global player in marine industry and research. There is now a draft selection inquiry on the co-location of research environments in Bergen. [[KVU]] It is unclear how the premises for research are emphasised in this work. The Minister for Fisheries replied on 24 February that there is no requirement in the KVU for co-location, even if an overall R & D environment in Bergen so wishes, and believes it will strengthen our position as world leader. How will the Council of State ensure that strengthening the research cluster becomes a primary objective of the KVU work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1294	The representative, Grung, wants to know how I, the Council of State, want to ensure that strengthening the research cluster is a major goal for the KVU work in progress in Bergen. I just want to say that we have something in common at least: we are very happy in Bergen. Then we agree that the Bergens region is already a force center for marine research. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and I have been concerned that we have several underlying marine R & D businesses in Bergen. That's why it's positive, I think, that the representative is also very concerned – in line with the undersigned and the government – that Bergen will continue to provide world-leading marine research. As the representative is also involved, the government, as announced in the Master Plan for Marine Research, has launched a KVU to assess how we can best resolve both the land situation and the location of the marine research environments today, while – perhaps most importantly – ensuring the future development of marine R & D in Bergen. I look forward – and I hope and believe that the representative also does – to having good analyses and suggestions for localisation solutions presented in the draft selection study. When analyses are available, these will of course form the basis for further treatment and policy evaluation. A KVU shall consider different and possible concepts. In this KVU, we have asked for at least two other conceptually different alternatives to a zero option to be developed. It is close to assuming that alternatives to co-location will be provided. Interests will be heard, and we will, of course, include all the recordings we get from the marine R & D environment in Bergen, in the further work. Once the investigation is completed, it will provide good advice, which will of course and logically be included in an overall assessment of how best to ensure that the Bergens region will deliver world-leading marine research in the future. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1307	I thank you for the answer, and I thank the Minister for being happy in Bergen. I can replicate that I am happy in both the whole coast and especially the trophies. What may be a bit of a challenge here is that one area is divided into two ministers, where there has been a long tradition that the Minister for Fisheries has had certain institutions. There has been an important process in which research communities have been working together for several years, and they believe that they will. It's not just Bergen that's going to be lifted up here, but it's one area where the University of Bergen is really in the top class, and it's within that marine. Does the Minister see that it can be challenging to have the distinction, that one might get special interests against one's institutions, when the Minister of Knowledge is really responsible for the greater part of the cluster?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1314	At least I see this force center, as we call it, as forward-looking. As far as possible, as much as we can, we should be leading the world ahead, and I see the challenges that lie there today. But it will be very important in such processes, first and foremost, that the people affected get to work without the influence of politicians on the kind of alternatives to be given. I want to be very careful as the Council of State to go in and say what kind of solution is the best political, socio-economic and, perhaps most importantly, the best research solution. I see the challenges, and I think we will come up with alternative proposals that will give Bergen the necessary forward-looking promise to be a leader in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1319	A little bit of the starting point here is that we've given the research environments enough time to see that they want this. They are actually waiting for the politicians now, because it is at Marineholmen that the university has located its environment with all the laboratories that are there. Part of the lease for the additional premises of the Marine Research Institute is running out quite soon, and a change is needed. Could the Minister – although he was not distinguishing between his political role and research based on the debate that has taken place, but it is important and expected from the research environment – think to be clear when the KVU is presented, and say what is the solution for, so that you can go through KS1 and KS2 quickly and get it located? It's urgent, for the sea is going to be one of the main solutions, especially with the position Norway has, to find the future sustainable solutions. So the question is, will the minister at least do his part of the job of pointing out and supporting localization?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1328	Yes, I fully agree, and I think that we agree on a cross-political basis, that the sea will in the future be extremely important for Norway economically, but also to provide quality food and other by-products that we get from the sea. It's creepy important. I'm going to promise the representative that when I get these options on my table and I'm going to go on with this, I'm going to be very clear and clear on what I recommend when it comes to the concepts that are being presented, including on the localization issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1340	«The Council of State issued the following statement in the Official Journal of Bergen on 1 April 2016: 'The policymakers have laid down the framework conditions for the growth of this industry and the HI will share the ambitions for those decisions.' 'HI shall take into account its soundness, and then they shall make models to achieve those objectives.' Why did the Minister for Fisheries not wish to withdraw these specific statements in the Official Journal of Bergen when the theme was being debated in the Stortinget on 5 April?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1347	I have received a number of questions about this – certainly rightly – and I answer all the questions I get. This question is probably not the last question I get either, and much of what I say can certainly be experienced as repetitions – but so is it. The survey has requested that the Marine Research Institute, HI, together with a number of other knowledge environments, provide research-based advice as a basis for the development of a new management regime for the aquaculture industry. When I expressed myself about the ambitions of the aquaculture industry and the role of HI in this, I left nothing in my statements but that I expect from HI, as I expect from other institutions, that they follow up on what the Storting has decided, and what the Storting wants. HI's mission includes research themes that will provide the authorities with the knowledge needed to carry out good, forward-looking and sustainable management, and I've been clear and clear that as politicians we will not control this research, because then research will lose its legitimacy. This I think I've repeated a number of times. HI has and shall have a free and independent role in professional matters. This is also included in the main instruction for the management of HI. Therefore, dealing with the ambitions of government and big business means nothing more than that I expect – and I hope that the Storting will expect it – that HI and other research environments provide research-based advice to the administration based on the top expertise they possess. Only in this way can we manage and develop the fisheries and aquaculture industry in a sustainable way and in a way that helps future generations to survive from harvesting the large seafood resources we have along our coast. Research can be divided into three categories: basic research, applied research and development. It's these ambitions, which the Stortinget has laid down, which I've signaled to HI, which is otherwise a fantastic institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1362	The reason why very many people react to the announcements of the Council of State is that this is a very serious matter. What we're talking about here is an enormous industry, and as the Council said earlier, this is perhaps the most important arena of value creation in Norway in the years to come. The fact that you have a safe and good foresight covering for the decisions you have to take is a decisive thing. If you don't know, we're not really professional. If not, neither do we have a democratic country where we have free research. I would like to thank you for the answer to the question, and with my good heart I would say that the Council of State may have responded well to the first part of the election, but that is the second part of the appointed Council of State at all does not go into: ‘HI shall assume that it is proper’. That's the level of ambition, and then they have to create models that make it defensive to achieve these goals. Here we're talking about direct involvement in the research results. Can the Council of State here and now withdraw this appointment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1369	I thought that we agreed that the growth regime that we are going to put in place in the future within aquaculture should be sustainable, and that it should be sound. Something else would be quite strange – if models were to be presented to be taken into consideration by politicians and that are not sound in relation to the environment and sustainability. I think that's weird. But let me say it like this: the debate on free and independent research appears at regular intervals. SV sat with the knowledge minister for eight years, and I registered that SV also received a lot of criticism at the time. Researchers claimed not to see any SV footprints when they sat with the Minister of Knowledge. SV wanted a clear management of what it was researched on, it was said. SV directed research towards societal issues, to which answers were needed. SV did not discuss whether this conflicted with freedom of research. SV was on a collision course with parts of the research environments. This debate comes at regular intervals. I think it is healthy for us to discuss it at regular intervals – just as the representative addresses – so that we can ensure a free and independent research in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1376	That's a weird answer. The size has decided that all growth within this industry should, of course, take place within viable frameworks. But what the Council of State says to the Official Journal of Bergen is that the Institute of Marine Research is to assume that this growth is justified, that they as researchers are to assume that it is justified and that they are even to make models that justify reaching them. After this questioning, the Minister for Fisheries has not gone back on this honourable Member, and one might wonder if it is pure pride. In this case, pride stands in the way of clarification of the role of the Marine Research Institute in the future. One last question, just to see if there is a bit of a desire for free research from this sector: a Council will be created for the Marine Research Institute. The trade community wants this to be an international panel, which can be a strength for research, but will also ensure independence. from the suspicions we have to the Minister for Fisheries. Would this be an international advice, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1383	We do not re-nominate a professional council because there are suspicions about the Minister of Fisheries. Research communities want to reappointment technical advice to have a professional quality and quality assurance on the research that exists and that comes. This welcomes the research communities. So we don't appoint this council because there's some suspicion against the Minister of Fisheries, it's to ensure quality research – which everyone wants. Yes, I have said in the re-designation of this professional council that it will consist of both international and perhaps national researchers, but it is very important to see that research has more roles. Horizon 2020, the Long-term Research Plan, contains three things: the societal challenges, which receive significant funding, competitive business, which are important, and excellent research. So there are several elements in this, which I think it is important that we, as politicians, are involved in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1390	That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-13.ana.ud1738e1403	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
