ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e47	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Gunvor Eldegard, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Kristian Toning Riise, has taken the seat. There is a request for a permit from the Advance Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mazyar Keshvari as from 15 December and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Peter N. Myhre is called to meet during the period of leave, from 15 December until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e80	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e100	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two parts, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries will first be discussed, followed by the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, in each part of the debate, there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from members of the government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e115	First, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on the budget for 2017. We know, of course, that in a situation of minority government and budgetary negotiations there will be tight deadlines, but in spite of this, the Committee has the ability to cooperate well and deliver well in time and has put forward an attitude today. I would also like to thank all the external contributors who have made representations, sent letters and made contributions to the budget. Finally, of course, I would also like to thank our committee secretary and the others in the administration who, in a hectic and demanding time of day and night, have been able to make the adjustment, read the proof and do all the work that the Storting can do on this matter today in a proper way. The 2017 budget is a good budget for the local government sector. Local democracy in Norway is important, and it is a functioning local democracy that we have. In Norway, the people-elected legitimacy, the citizens have confidence that the local populace make good decisions on behalf of themselves, and the Stortinge also trusts local democracy. There was a great deal of will in this room when we set up processes that will lead us to move tasks from state, county, county and directorate, to name a few, down to the municipalities by giving them greater confidence in the future, precisely because we believe that decisions are better when they get closer to the extent possible to them. Municipal economy always plays an important role in this setting. There is always a gap between expectations and what can be made available to the local government sector. I don't think we're going to get into a situation where Norwegian spokesmen and Norwegian advisers say we've had enough, now we're doing it. They will always have higher ambitions on behalf of their community than it is possible to make funds available. This means that local policy is about priority, it is about defining which one wants to focus most on, and that is what local policy should be, and that is how it will be this year. The debate here in the Chamber will also ensure this year that the opposition says that this was a little too small. They might call it lean this year too and make the impression that only they had managed, that the municipalities had got a lot more money. If we see the whole four-year-old ball under one, it's kind of ironic that every year we put more money on the table than we did last year. In our first budget, we put more money on the table than the red-greens did in their last budget in 2013. We've increased the licenses to Norwegian municipalities, and we've done that every year. For four years in a row, we've put more money on the table than we used the year before. If one in other European countries had translated this debate and seen us discussing how much more money we're going to spend on the municipalities, and then it calls it skinny, I think they would have said that in Norway they're doing well if there could be a discussion between the position and the opposition about how much more one should increase by. But as I said, we're doing it this year. We spend more money than we have spent this year, to the municipalities, so that in 2017 there is more room for local democracy to give priority to its efforts, in addition to our expectation that one will continue to invest in what has been our basis for increasing the permissions of the local government sector. Many of the increases are justified by special needs. Knowledge is important for this government, and early efforts are our main priority in the knowledge field. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left share this commitment, so that they have found room in the budgetary agreement to increase their efforts further. After the budget agreement, we add a total of 1.3 billion. kr on the table to get more teachers on the first to fourth steps. It will be a very important step to get involved in early efforts. We also continued to escalate on rushes. It is a signal that has been given to Kommune-Noreg on many occasions. It continues and gives us a reason for part of the increase with further escalating on the rush. Together we do with health centres and school health services. We are once again strengthening as we did in 2015 and 2014, so that municipalities can provide even better education services and health centres. Parental care is always a bet area for a government Progress Party in it. We've had a state funding experiment, and we're very happy that six municipalities are involved in testing that model, so we can get a comparison between the traditional model and the model that the Progress Party wants to test. In addition, we have improved and strengthened the support system for the construction of sick homes and care homes, and we hope that the municipalities will benefit from the good care schemes that exist, so that a few can build enough places, which will be important contributions to providing good care for the elderly in the future as well. It's very exciting to be a municipal politician. One has a lot of tasks to do, and when we travel with the committee in Norway, we see that the municipal sector is characterized by many skilled employees and committed local politicians. So it's very rewarding to travel. But we're also hearing about challenges. Demographics change, and the requirements for being a municipality change. Thus, the municipal reform is an important theme that is seen on the agenda of the majority of the population in this period. It's very nice to follow the local government meeting. We can follow a lot of people on web-TV, and I have to admit that I do it sometimes. Yesterday, Lower Eiker said yes to the Drammen, for example. It shows that although we are approaching Christmas, movement in the community reform is. Almost every week, there's a new municipality that says: Now we've thought about it and come a little closer to talking to our neighbor. This means that with the municipal reform – even if some people try to imagine that nothing is happening, there is unlikely to be a lot of it when we sum up what has happened so far since 2014. There are 87 municipalities that have said yes to each other, and they form 35 new municipalities. There are as many as 1.3 million Northmen who live in a municipality that from 2020 will be new. Only with what we know today, we go from 428 municipalities to 376, and it's done voluntarily and through local leadership. So we have to thank the local leaders who have gone ahead and found out that they can create even better services for their inhabitants through community planning. I should like to wish that even the largest party in this Chamber, the Labour Party, had been more constructive in the municipal reform debate, especially when they had program formulations in this period that were very clear that we needed a municipal reform. But it's still not too late to make sure you're in on the municipal reform. In any case, we notice – there are many Labour Party spokesmen coming to us and saying, "Get on!" And we'd like to hope that our own party would be involved in the important decisions. I'm very happy that the committee in this setting is adding 50 million. extra on the table of converging municipalities wishing to allocate or top-funded infrastructure measures to link two or more municipalities. Here, there are great opportunities for the municipalities that have gone ahead to seek and get support for important transport and infrastructure projects. I am also pleased that we have had a transitional arrangement that means that those who have joined forces should not go down in basic and small municipal subsidies from 2017 until the new municipality sees the light of day in 2020. There is also a comment on the need to increase the regional initiative. We think, then, that since there are more mergers than the ones that were known when that scheme was launched, we would like to move towards revised work to increase the number of posts, so that the municipalities that have received an amount will be able to approximate that amount, and that the new municipalities will benefit from our consideration of strengthening the scheme in the revised form. The county councils now have exciting days to sum up the neighboring talks. I would like to congratulate the Agder people who have made an offensive decision which means that South Africa is the number two behind the Trondelags to find together a stronger region in the future. The Storting majority have said that one wishes about ten – the Progress Party actually wanted zero, but we have cooperated with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we believe that it is better with ten than with nineteen, and that the county can thus take out efficiency gains through bureaucracy and political wages and thus also strengthen the service provision for the inhabitants who live in the state. The tasks have been discussed in terms of mass, I have registered in the county. I would recommend that everyone who discusses tasks, read the task message and process it, and then see that the Storting has pointed to a number of tasks to be done in order to move. In addition, there is a notification for an expert selection to watch additional task move. So there's a clear expectation in this room that one should move tasks down to new populace regions. Finally, we should also talk a little about the income of the county municipalities. There is a clear profile from this government that you want to strengthen the country road network. When we're out talking to businesses, there's one thing they're saying, it's that they want better transportation. There are very few who are calling for more regional development funds. But we have found a good balance there, where, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are adding more to the budgetary agreement on regional development than originally, while for the entire four-year period we have strengthened the county road network by 1.3 billion. kr, which is a significant amount that is given to Norwegian county councils to take care of the gift they received from the red-greens with a non-maintenanced state road network that has created major challenges for county politicians. When it concerns the county economy, there is in particular one criterion that always gets a little debate. It's the boat and ferry criterion. There were parts of the committee yesterday having a meeting with the Finnish county council, where they were busy with this. We know that the county councils have challenges with long contracts they have concluded or are in the process of entering into. They need to be careful that they will receive funding to ensure that there is a basis for operating boat and ferry services, but the challenge has been both for this government and for the previous one to find a model for the boat and ferry criteria that are fair and good and that stand. Thus, it is very exciting when New Year's Møreforsning provides the ministry with an assessment of the criterion, and I believe it is important that we discuss it well, politically and also in consultation with the ferries, so that we can put in place a system that can stand up, which is perceived to be fair, and which ensures that the county municipalities can deliver good boat and ferry routes, but also that one has the ability to take environmental considerations, and that one can have socio-economic good solutions to deliver a good supply. I want in connection with the pink of my own county municipality of Hordaland that has really gone on leading when it's in the environment. They have made demands in their new supply packages and have received an offer to reduce energy use by 60 pst. and CO 2 emissions with 87 pst. in relation to today. It's quite impressive for a county council to take such an environmental responsibility as Hordaland has done. They have done so in good cooperation with the state. They've got the licenses from Enova. We know that More and Romsdal and the South Trondelag have also received. In this way, the state can contribute to the implementation of good environmental policies while renewing the ferry fleet and providing a better supply to people living along the coast. So I think and hope that we will have a lot of good discussions about the boat and ferry criteria in the next year and land it in a good way. Finally, we also have responsibility for much of the central government in this committee. I started with the municipalities and county councils, because there are the biggest permits, but we also have a great responsibility for what is in the state. After all, this government has been told this period that we should simplify, renew and improve. In the 2017 budget, we are further committed to red tape and facilitating the removal of specular bans and bans. We think it is important to streamline the public sector, too, so there is an efficiency requirement that requires the public sector to operate smarter, to have less duplication and to make it easier for people. There, this government has gone ahead with setting efficiency requirements, which means that we should not build a state bureaucracy, but rather trim it and make sure that it is effective. With that I thank you for the floor and look forward to a good debate within this part of the Committee's remit. We are putting forward a good and offensive budget for the municipality sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e167	The committee leader from the Progress Party spoke for 15 minutes, but that was not many seconds he spent on the care of the elderly, and I understand that. Prior to the 2013 election, Chairman Siv Jensen said to the VG that it would be as easy for the elderly to have a nursing home as for an asylum seeker to have a place on an asylum reception. "It cannot be on the money. It'll cost whatever it wants," she said. In July 2016 she concluded that she was not satisfied with the government's efforts in this area, and Vice President Per Sandberg promised that it would be stronger to come back in 2017. He said, ‘I don’t have any problems taking into account the self-criticism that the government has not followed up well enough, but remember that the care of the elderly is in the municipalities and that there are great differences out there.’ Now we have the fasit. We have had a municipal arrangement on the table where KS says that there is no room for action to expand capacity and quality in the care of the elderly. Then the question is, what has happened between July 2016 and Christmas 2016, as there is no money in the budget to strengthen the care of the elderly in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e181	It is wrong that I do not talk about care for the elderly in my 15 minutes. I'm talking about the strength we've been doing in terms of advocacy to build more places, which is important. I think the Workers' Party thinks very well about the famous instigation system – then a change from the expected to the initial instigation level. It's quite right that we wanted a model that shouldn't be on the money. Where the need for care for the elderly is present, the elderly shall be confident that they are provided with what they are entitled to. That's why we got multiple numbers for a trial scheme that allowed the municipalities that wanted to join the trial to try it out. It is disappointing that the Labour Party, which has more than 200 spokesmen, has so little grasped the possibility of getting the state to finance the care of the elderly fully when the need arose. There were quite a number of Labour Party spokespersons who said no to that offer, who wanted to provide better care for the elderly in their municipalities, because they wanted to be able to prioritise and cut in the elderly. So the big vocabulary should not criticise the government for the lack of follow-up of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e190	I have also followed the local authorities around, and on the same day that the decision the representative Njåstad refers to was taken, Rindal made a decision, they went from yes to no because someone had changed the party and decided that they would not join that merger. That's how it turned into 0-0 that day. My question concerns this with municipalities that are so-called voluntary small, but are actually involuntary small because the neighbor has said no to aggregation. From a meeting between the representatives of Njåstad and Skjelstad and ten municipalities in such a situation, the media writes: ‘We will compensate the municipalities that have entered the municipal reform with an intention to merge with the neighbouring municipality.’ So they're the ones who said yes to aggregation, but they've got no from the neighbor. Where did this money go in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e202	I guess there were 1-1 rather than 0-0 yesterday. I chose to look at the local government meeting that said yes, and then the representative decided to look at the local council that turned. In the meeting to which Mr. Greni refers, Skelstad and I were a little whipped about the bachelor's club of municipalities that want to join, but don't find a partner. The money is in the budget on undivided shields, and the reason they're put there is that there can still be movement. There may be some bachelors who find out before Christmas. Then they get the idea from another post. This distribution is made over the New Year, and we will see how many bachelors will arrive in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e207	The representative Njåstad boasts of the municipal economy. It was just to be lacking that a government that spends so much money – and has never had so much money and never used so much oil money – had not had any money for the municipalities as well. What's more strange is that there's no money in terms of tax relief for the richest in this country, while there's money in terms of getting an old-age care that's good enough, so that there's room in the hospital, that it's a low-threshold offer, for example. in the psychiatry of all, or that municipalities can afford to have good kindergartens and schools. For SV, it is a choice of value to spend on care for the elderly rather than giving money to the wealthiest, and I would ask: What is the value of the Advance Party based on when they want to provide tax relief rather than better care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e216	It's not right that we've chosen one above the other. Both of these are important, so we also do both. I myself have a background as a spokesman for a municipality that is very busy with taxation, but we don't use the rhetoric 'for those who have the most history', but 'for those who create the jobs'. These are the locomotives of the community, Norwegian owners who have a generation perspective. This is what we want to do – that we want to make it possible for them to stay in Norwegian districts and create jobs rather than discriminate against the foreign owners, who have a completely different perspective than the local owners. This is actually very interconnected. A good municipality depends on having corner stone companies and local owners. Consequently, fiscal policy is probably so important to the local economy. It's not right that we give priority to this. We are investing in both, including care for the elderly, the local economy – and tax relief for those who create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e229	The Labour Party has great ambitions for better welfare services in Norwegian municipalities. That's why, in our alternative state budget, we've prioritised 3 billion. kr more for the local government sector. In addition, we have a number of other initiatives that either strengthen the economy of municipalities or expand important welfare services. From our more than 200 rapporteurs and also from local politicians from other parties that we see speaking in local ways, we are told that the government does not spend enough resources on the table to build up the well-being locally. Therefore, the Workers' Party has prioritised more money for the municipalities, a natural continuation of our investment from the last time we put in government. This gives room for a strong commitment to early school effort. We want to make sure that more students get the help and organization they need to be able to read, write and calculate before they leave the 2nd grade. Closer follow-up with more teachers in the early school years we think is the right medicine. We have to realize that good municipal economy is a fundamental prerequisite for good schools. Our financial arrangements for municipalities also allow for a stronger commitment to care for the elderly. We want more people in care, with a focus on full-time jobs and a variety of skills. During the hearing, the local authority’s stakeholder organisation, KS, pointed out that the government’s arrangements for the municipalities for the next year at best involve a zero growth without a room for action. It is amazing that a finance minister and party leader from the Progress Party, through their state budget, does not equip the municipalities so that they can strengthen the care of the elderly. In the past, the Progress Party has intended that it should not be on the money when it comes to care for the elderly. Even with record use of oil money, the Progress Party does not have the ability to prioritize money to the oldest. We have ended up with a Government-Fremskrit party that is more concerned with increased fuel charges than with strengthening the care of the elderly. Just care for the elderly is one of the main reasons why the Workers' Party prioritises significantly more money for municipalities than the government does. We want to strengthen and develop a real care for the elderly for the future. The party of progress has run from its promises to the voters. When the Chairman of the Committee, from the Advance Party, speaks of a huge gap between expectations and the government's ability to deliver, the Advance Party has contributed to both high expectations and poor delivery in terms of electoral commitments. And it is reassuring that, in addition to not delivering, they are trying to shift responsibility to local politicians, for example. their promises of state care for the elderly and their attachment to rights have become a failure. It's uncanny by a government party. Unlike the Progress Party, the Workers' Party will take responsibility for financing the care of the elderly. Worthy care of the oldest in society is more important to us than 20 billion. kr in tax cuts for those who already have the most. The working party is also concerned with upgrading the county road network and other county transport tasks. That's why the Stoltenberg government let in 500 million. kr to the county roads in the 2014 budget. We've followed up on this over the entire accumulation period. If the budgets of the Workers' Party had been given a majority in recent years, the county councils would receive far more funds for upgrading the county roads than they have today. We also want a stronger commitment to higher education. We are therefore proposing a completely necessary investment in the professions. We will do so on, among other things. to increase the apprenticeship grant, to invest in more professionals and to invest in better equipment in schools. In this debate, there is reason to point to the triple paradox to which the government has no good answer. First of all, we have a unemployment that's getting stuck. 135,000 people are now out of work. The second is that the government uses record oil money. With this government, oil money has increased by 100 billion. kr. The third is that there are many unsolved tasks in cities and rural areas throughout the country. The paradox is that the government doesn't have the ability to connect these three things together. Why does the government not manage to connect people and money to solve the necessary tasks for which the municipalities and county councils are responsible? Then the government parties will probably blame the Workers' Party for replacing private jobs with public jobs, but that's not right. First of all, we can refer to history. When the Workers' Party joined the government, 350,000 more jobs were created – two out of three in the private sector. Secondly, unsolved tasks in the municipalities can be solved by unemployed engineers and skilled workers. We have e.g. The need to upgrade school buildings, there is a need for more ICT skills in municipalities, we are facing exciting and important years in terms of welfare technology, we have a great need to recruit new professionals to train more skilled workers, there are county roads and municipal roads that need upgrading, and the municipal sector is not least important in terms of meeting our climate commitments. The list could probably have been done even further. The point is that by investing in municipalities, people and money would be linked to activity in a much better way than the government's tax cuts policy. Now that we're dealing with the last state budget of this government, there's an opportunity to summarize what the government, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, has done in the municipal area. We have a government that has not prioritised the municipal economy and the development of welfare services locally in the same way that the red-green government did. The figures obtained from the Ministry of Finance show that the growth in total municipal income has fallen, from an annual growth of 2.5 pst. in the period 2006–2013 to 1,9 pst. annual with the Right-Fremskritspart-government. If you calculate this per year, it's going to be a difference of about 2.5 billion. kr, which the sector has failed with this government. There are also other factors that underpin the fact that government has not given priority to school and local welfare particularly high. Firstly, the growth of employment in municipalities is record weak – we have to go back to the last right to have the municipal minister, to find similar weak figures. In the period of red-green government, there was an average annual growth in employment of 8,500. This has fallen dramatically in recent years and is now down to – yes, we are approaching 3,000 employed annually. Far fewer kindergarten teachers, nurses, assistant nurses, and teachers are employed under this government. It shows that we have a government that does not have the ability to enable the municipalities to expand the welfare services locally. The second example is in the Class Struggle on December 9. Since the change in government, Norwegian municipalities have increased the income from property taxes by over 3 billion. kr – or 36 pst. When the Right-Rapporteur of Birkenes introduced property taxes on houses and cabins in 2015, he stated the following: ‘I think there are some key politicians who do not fully understand the reality that local politicians have to deal with’. Faced with these concrete examples of a weak economic situation in Norwegian municipalities, the municipal minister tries to cling to a straw of a very theoretical reasoning that the room for action is now larger than before. In previous budgetary debates, we have shown that the Council of State's reasoning is professionally weak. The Council of State omits from its calculations perfectly obvious elements which are important for the action rooms of the municipalities. It is still not possible to see any other reason for these theoretical calculations than that the Council of State wants to produce its own efforts for the local economy in a better way than that on which it is based. The Council of State is likely to continue its numerical use in this debate too, but at least he can take the opportunity to explain why in his calculations he omits 3.5 billion. kr i plus from the years 2011 and 2012, which the municipalities have brought with them in the following years, and the 1.2 billion. kr i minus from 2014, for which his government did not compensate. This represents a difference in the periods to which the Council of State compares, of 4.7 billion. kr. By omitting this, his reasoning on economic space becomes, unfortunately, completely worthless. I wish the municipal minister was right in claiming that the government bets on the municipalities. The government doesn't, because tax cuts are most important to the Right and the Advance Party. The Labour Party believes that school, health and care must come first. Finally, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind – alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e281	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e288	It might have been tempting to ask the representative’s point of view on the consequences of getting reports of full classrooms after the absence rule was introduced, possibly her view on the regional impact of using – as Finnmark County Municipality has allocated – 1.5 million. NOK to add a brostein at the Town Hall Square in the municipality of Hammerfest. But I should rather go to the municipal reform and the referendum on it. My question is: to what extent does the representative believe that the different municipalities have managed to make the citizens aware of the role of the municipality as a service provider, authority maker, community developer and local democratic arena when it can be said in the municipalities of Finnmark that we have had electoral participation down to 11 p.m. in the referendum on the reform of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e295	The representative, Bakke-Jensen, was involved in the absence and absence of high school in Finnmark. It is a major and important theme. I'm very much in favour of the students meeting for education, but I'm also very much in favour of the county councils and schools being given the resources they need to provide high-quality education. I would like to remind you that the minister of knowledge from the Right in our promise that expert assistance would be sent when a new report came out showing the consequences of the dropout. The experts have allowed themselves to wait, and his party traps in big and government have unfortunately not followed up with the recruitment of the experts that are traditionally used in high school, namely teachers. It's disappointing that the Right has helped cut another 100 million. kr to the county councils, thereby weakening the efforts of the county councils both on the road and at school. Moreover, I have confidence in local democracy and in the decisions that local politicians have made around the country, and I hope Right has the same confidence as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e300	I thought I would ask the representative Pedersen and the Labour Party questions about the regional reform. In Austria, we have witnessed the fact that the Labour Party has four different positions locally, one in Eastfold, one in Oslo, one in Akershus and one in Buskerud, while the party seems nationally to have already decided, all the time they put forward a proposal in Stortinget that the goal is to merge Oslo and Akershus County, when we start the process of regional reform last year. My question is: will one now after this process still stand firm by having a coercion of Oslo and Akershus County as a minimum?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e305	The working party has never joined the idea of a number 10 without any further justification. We've agreed that the states are going to have a neighboring talk, and then you have to sum up after that. This is a strange question. The Labour Party has made proposals twice in this Chamber on a separate process in the capital area, and it is not only that the government parties have voted against. No, representatives of the government parties have been up here almost panicking about the need for a separate process in the capital area, with the reason that everything worked so well here that there is no need to look at changes at all. Had the government parties supported us when we promoted this proposal, a completely different process might have been possible. With regard to the Labour Party, and how the various parties have voted around the country, I might think that the Progress Party should also see its own people in the cards if they think it is a problem that there are different views internally in the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e312	The representative Pedersen was a great deal about health not only in his post, but also in his reply with Njåstad earlier. Much is said about welfare technology and user technology in the comments of the Workers' Party. But then there'll be a paradox there. It is the same party that initiated the interaction reform – with not least Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – and then had great faith in providing the municipalities with competence and not least a level of competence for the municipal sector. Then there are several paradoxes here when the Workers' Party then struggles to the degrees against looking at and adopting the necessary competence by participating in a municipal reform altogether. That is what could give the necessary skills in care and care. Does the representative Pedersen not see that it is a paradox in the rhetoric of the Workers' Party? There is no doubt that many municipalities in the country are currently struggling to recruit the necessary skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e321	If the representative of Skkelstad is looking for paradoxes, he should perhaps see a different location from the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party is for a community merger where it makes sense, and where it is connected locally. I would like to remind you that only a few weeks ago we dealt with a reform of competence here in the Stortinget which the Labour Party proposed, and if I remember correctly, the representative of Skkelstad voted against it. Besides, we're now proposing 3 billion. more to the municipal sector, which would enable municipalities and counties to employ many more of the people they need. Because regardless of whether you combine a few or a lot of municipalities, I don't think the employees think they're going to work for free in the future. They have to be paid, and then the municipalities need money to hire them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e331	The right has used the years in government to rust Norway for the future. We focus on knowledge, research and commerce so that business can create jobs and tax revenues. Where the red-greens made our economy increasingly oil dependent, the Right and the Government started a completely necessary transition to give Norway more legs to stand on. The oil price drop fully showed how right we were, and how wrong the red-green ones were. Waiting and seeing policies are not good enough when challenges arise. Then there is a need for will and ability to act. Therefore, the public sector is also being converted. An efficient and good public sector is a competitive advantage for business, it contributes to the security of our daily lives, it provides care and care, and knowledge of the school. With the Right in Government, we see that state administration is streamlined, time thieves are hunted down, rules are simplified, municipalities are given greater freedom from state control, there is massive effort on new ICT solutions that simplify our daily lives, state jobs are moved out of the capital, and regional reform will give fewer county municipalities. The opposition will probably say that they agree with several of these issues, but there is only one problem: they did not implement when they had the opportunity. For eight years, the reform brakes were on, and in the brake tracks, we saw the contours of the Senterpart logo. Local reform is also well on track. Up to 150 municipalities now have positive merger decisions, and new decisions are being taken almost weekly. Not everyone has a positive match with the neighbouring municipality, but in any case we can already establish that this government's voluntary municipal reform of less than three years will give the biggest change in Norwegian municipal structure over 50 years. When we see how many municipalities take seriously the need for change, it is to be surprised that the Labour Party in this Chamber has been most concerned about undermining a reform they themselves have programmed as necessary. At the same time, we are strengthening the economy of municipalities. At the right of the government, robust and predictable municipal economy is provided so that municipalities can provide health care, care for the elderly, child protection and high-quality schools to their citizens. The black paint from the Center Party and the Workers' Party on Right Policy was wrong before the 2013 elections, and it is wrong today. The concept of raging and starvation appears comical today, but there were such claims the red-green used. There are results that count, and the fact is that the real free revenues of municipalities have increased more in this case than in the previous grossing-up period. The municipalities delivered a historically high operating result last year, and it looks good so far in 2016 as well. The government ensures real growth through the budgets, extra tax revenue helps, and many municipalities, of course, are well governed within the framework they have. Municipal Report commentator wrote a week ago: ‘Commune-Norway is in good times.’ I'm from Trøndelag, and for the last four years the Senterpartie had the municipal minister, the real growth in the free income in the Turkish municipalities was minus 152 million. kr. In other words, a red-green municipality economy ‘growth’ of minus 152 million. kr the previous grossing-up period, was turned back to plus 228 million. kr in the years 2013-2015 with bourgeois rule. Taking into account changes due to new tasks, cost growth and inclusion of earmarked grants, one can compare the real growth of free income, which is, of course, something that says about the increased — if not reduced — economic space of action of municipalities. For other parts of the country, similar figures exist, not least for the northernmost counties. For the country as a whole, the economic space of the municipalities has increased more during this government than it did in the previous metropolitan period. Then we have to be careful with drawing glossy images. Although much is going well, municipalities still have to make tough priorities within their framework. But the misery description the opposition has operated is simply not a believer. The right converts and modernizes in the country and municipality, we strengthen the ability of municipalities to deliver well-being and the ability of the counties to deliver good schools and better county roads, and we have record growth in the transport budgets – there are better roads and infrastructure, which do good for business and prosperity throughout the country. The most district friendly policy is the one that secures and creates more jobs, which has a yes attitude to local initiatives, simpler rules, lower taxes and a better public sector. That is why it is our priority. The only sure thing we know about the option is that the Workers' Party has a tax bill for Norwegian jobs – in urban and urban areas – in an unknown billion class. The choice is whether we want a policy that provides more jobs that contribute to the state budget than does the state budget. Then there is the choice between a Right-led government that will create more, and an Labour Party government that will tax more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e374	The so-called red tape and efficiency reform, the ABE reform, requires public savings. At the Prime Minister's office, there's no need to save money. There's going to be an increase in the use of money. State Secretary Julie Brodtkorb at the Prime Minister's office states: ‘In principle, it is important that the Prime Minister’s office also participates in the efficiency reform as a signal. But it must have been investigated...» Then it is tempting to ask the representative Jensen: What investigation does it show when you are now kissing, for example. in the funds for Health South-East, hospitals, with 767 million. Do you really want to delete this item? What investigation was made when you chose to go in for it to be cut off to the hospitals, while the Prime Minister's office is getting out and getting an increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e386	I have registered that the Workers' Party has also made a significant efficiency gain in the state sector in its alternative arrangement, though not made them visible for all the items – but it is a separate debate. Otherwise, I trust that the Prime Minister's office also operates efficiently and is committed to running sparingly and efficiently, as everyone else in the public sector is. We know that it is still possible in the public sector as a whole – in the health sector as well as in the municipalities – to do things differently, to make logistics and routines go better, so that you get better quality, healthier and more knowledge out of the crowns you manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e393	Last week we could read in the media that the representative Jensen called my predictions that if the government continues, it would be a huge coercion, a terror propaganda. In the 2013 election campaign in the South Trøndelag, where we both come from, my claims were that the Right would propose coercion in this period, called the scare propaganda. The right could guarantee that no coercion would be proposed. I feel it, among other things. on tape from the TV debate in Tidal. In the evening post today it says that the government will propose coercion of 15-20 municipalities. It even states that this should be accelerated by February and not dealt with in June, which has been a prerequisite for this process all along. If this is true, my fear propaganda from 2013 has become a reality. Why has the Right gone completely away from this election promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e402	The right is at its election level. We carry out a municipal reform that is voluntary, which means that we have a significant reduction in the municipality number in Norway, and we have many more robust and strong municipalities. That's the one election promise we've given, and we're doing that in good cooperation with Norwegian municipalities – i.e. Norwegian municipalities go ahead and do that job. So there's an exception, and it's decided this big deal. Greni knows that, because she was in the debate when it was adopted in 2014. We have said that there may be an exceptional need for the Storting to take decisions to get sensible regional solutions. But it's an exception, not a main rule, as the Center Party tries to make it like that. In addition, when the Central Party is trying to give predictions about what is going to happen in the next big period, and that there will be some kind of coercion of new maps, I believe that the Central Party's representative is actually going into the fortune-telling industry, and in the fortune-telling industry it is said to be very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e409	The representative Jensen says they have had tough priorities, but it's a little hard to understand when you give tax gifts to the richest in the 20 billions class, who don't create jobs. This is proven: there are more unemployed people now than before. One of the problems with this is that this, combined with a tax system that is generally rigged for housing speculation, causes us to have major problems for many young people entering the housing market, and not least many who are struggling to pay their expenses. And the government now has a housing support policy that means that there are many tens of thousands of people getting housing support now, than it was just a few years ago – where we are more people, where housing prices are increasing, where the incomes of those who are disadvantaged are almost still. Then I have to ask the representative from the Right: What is the reason why the Right does not see SV's proposal in that case – namely that we have to adjust the housing support strongly so that no more now have problems with just keeping their home?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e418	Let me remind you that it is this government that has started an adjustment of the housing stock. We make it more accurate, and we also use more up-to-date income figures for those who are going to receive housing support. In addition, this week the government has notified changes to the credit market guidelines, which also reduce the price pressure on the housing market. We have a social housing policy. We have a targeted and good housing support system, and we still need it. And not least, we need to make sure that we get a yes-position that makes us get more homes into the market, that we get more homes built, that makes more homes available also on the second and third markets, that allow more people to get into the housing market. It is basically the most social thing we can do in housing policy, namely to ensure a yes-position that allows municipalities to create more housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e430	I had the pleasure of meeting as an alternate at the beginning of this budgetary process and am now also delighted to be in the final phase. It has made me follow this process both from the inside and from the outside, and I must say that I am pleased that there was a consensus in the budget drama that played out between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties. That country well, and it's a lot to enjoy in the budget agreement. Nevertheless, I think it is important to talk about the challenges facing the local government sector. The growth you're talking about is going to disappear, due to demographic changes, pension obligations and some measures that are actually done in the budget, such as: raising the point of entry for the reimbursement scheme for resource-intensive services. But most of all, I am pleased that the budget provided a significant boost for the youngest – more employees in kindergartens, with an annual impact of over 400 million. kr. This is an important impact for children and will improve the quality of kindergartens. This strengthens municipalities as they are responsible in the everyday life of most kindergartens. At the same time, we ensure that several families get a real choice from the start of the child's life, by increasing the cash support to NOK 7 500 per month for the one-year-olds. Last year, we had an improvement in the teacher's density for the youngest students in school. That's a bet we're happy to see an increase of this year, of 460 million. kr, which is a full financing of two teachers in classes of over 16 students. In recent times, terrible child abuse has been reported. We have to keep the pressure up and we've had a positive impact for an increase of over 0.5 billion. to combat violence against children. Within this municipal committee, important instruments of district policy are managed. We're glad it's set at 40 million. kr for loss compensation to county councils that came particularly poorly out of the new income system. This applies in particular to ferry and boat counties. We've increased regional development funds by 200 million. NOK, but it was not without a fight. In fact, most of it went to other district policy instruments, but an important tool in the county’s toolbox had been removed by the government. It's a little bit incomprehensible, and we're glad we had this reversed to some degree. We are facing a regional reform that will be absolutely essential for effective district policy in the years to come. The regions can strengthen and further develop the different advantages and strengths they have. They must be given the tools and the freedom of action. In that perspective, it becomes even more strange that the government chose to intervene heavily in the county's operating rooms. We in the Christian People's Party rarely rejoice over budgetary techniques, but in the position of the Municipal Committee, it is such a technicality that it is worth rejoicing over. The merger has been committed for many years over several posts and from several departments. Work is now to be started on how to collect these appropriations in one item, so that the whole thing becomes completely independent. As I said, I am pleased that there was an agreement on the budget, and we are pleased that the stamp of the Christian People's Party is well displayed in the municipal field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e451	Thanks to the representative Liones Breek for a very good post. It was a stronger criticism of the government parties than I've been listening to for a long time from the Christian People's Party, so it's obvious that there have been demanding rounds. That being said, the contribution of the representative of the Christian People's Party to ambitions on behalf of children, on behalf of young people and on behalf of welfare services in the municipalities. Then my question becomes: doesn't the representative think it would be easier to get more well-being in the municipalities if you had gone to the opposition, which, after all, has several billion more to just welfare services in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e458	The way in which the local economy had looked about cooperation went the other way is not easy to answer. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that this is about a whole. We're incredibly happy with some of what we've been through together with the government. I can mention several teachers in primary school, increased staffing in kindergartens, increased cash support, historical increase in one-time pay at birth, to mention something. In family and environmental and aid efforts, we have had a lot to do with the government, and we are therefore satisfied with the overall budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e463	I register what the representative Liones Breek now says – that you are satisfied with much of what you have achieved. I think I can sign that the Christian People's Party has had a significant impact both in this and in the previous budget on areas that have obviously been important to the Christian People's Party. One area where we have a common interest is the promise to get more teachers in early school. The budgetary agreement has further strengthened that effort by around 460 million. NOK, so that it now becomes more than 1.3 billion. kr more for more teachers in the first to fourth stages. Does the Christian People’s Party agree that this is also one of the most important things we can do to prevent further apostasy in the later years of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e471	Absolutely. As a teacher, it's very good to see that a rate continues on early efforts, because I'm convinced that experiencing early mastering in the education cycle will be part of and influence how one looks at education, and how one experiences the education cycle further. I think that one of the important reasons for the dropout in high school, among other things. is – as it is established – that many people are struggling with elementary knowledge when they are out of 10th grade. I think that's one of the things that becomes important for the Christian People's Party to bet on further, so that early efforts not only become a limited bet over a short period of time, but that there is a bet that must continue in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e476	The Christian People's Party has a note in its budget configuration that shows a proposal to increase the allocation of resource-intensive services by 330 million. kr. It's a proposal similar to that of the Center Party. The government sends an extra bill to the municipalities by increasing the point of entry for government reimbursement, which will make it difficult to cover this for the municipalities. The result may be that the offer to the weakest will be worse. Christian People's Party says in its comment: ‘This concerns the services of the most vulnerable in society, such as severely disabled, seriously damaged traffic and others with specific challenges and needs. In addition, it leaves the municipalities in a dispute between offering these people a decent offer and making cuts for other important purposes.’ Lell is a Christian People's Party on these cuts in the budget deal. How can you defend this in the light of the comments you have in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e488	I thank you for the line. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party has been committed to ensuring that the resource-intensive services are not too affected. These are vulnerable people, and that's quite right, as the representative refers to, that we're adding 330 million. kr into this in our alternative budget. We've got too much through, but we haven't gotten through for everything. We think it is regrettable that the government has suggested that the point of impact be raised, but that is something that unfortunately has not been changed in the course of the negotiations. But the Christian People's Party is pleased with the whole budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e502	There has been a long and difficult road to clarification in budgetary work this year. It could have been a good thing if a budget that was basically poor had become much better. But unfortunately, it didn't. The 2017 budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is partly impacted by strong redistributions that weaken the regional devaluation of budgetary resources. This has not been corrected in the budget agreement. On the other hand, the budgetary agreement has helped to strengthen the State over-management of the allocation of the framework appropriations to municipalities and county councils. This is illustrated by a budgetary note from the majority parties, where they indicate that the general carry-overs from the population grant are reduced by more than 400 million. kr for the benefit of different earmarked schemes. In the government’s budget proposal, there is initially a point of living local democracy. Here the framework management is hailed as principle, and it is called: ‘Room management is a prerequisite for municipalities to have a space for action so that they can act as local democracies capable of making local and individual service adjustments and making their own choices.’ There must have been poor communication between the management of the department and those who negotiated the budgetary agreement. The result weakens the frame control that is hailed in the proposition. The Centre Party has made significant adjustments to the framework of the municipalities and county councils in its alternative budget. This is necessary if we are to include the whole country in our ambitions for welfare development in 2017. These are equivalent opportunities for the development of jobs and for access to public services such as school, health and care. The central party increases the total transfers to the local government sector by more than 4 billion. kr. In this, there's 2 billion. kr to increased municipality frame and 1 billion. kr to increased framework for county councils. When the government and spokespersons of these parties boast of the bet in the municipal sector, they do not mention the cuts. Over the next year's budget, the majority sends an extra bill to the municipalities of 330 million. kr for the supply of resource-intensive services. This I really thought would be corrected in the agreement. But no, the Center Party is not supported in reversing this cut. In 2015, the majority of the government’s proposals for a new income system for county municipalities were adopted. In this year's budget, there will be a new income system for municipalities. The cost keys of the income system shall be regularly updated. I believe that, too, but the changes supported by the government are far more than a professional update. For both counties and municipalities, there is a redistribution that changes the possibility of providing equivalent services. I record that in a separate note, the Left is very satisfied with the collection of income that many municipalities will experience as a result of a new income system. The Committee's member from the Left refers to the Left as a member of the ‘provokes the municipal reform and, together with the government, found a sensible new income system that premieres small municipalities that merge’. So it's because there's not going to be equivalent services in Norwegian municipalities. The rationale of the new income system is no better than that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have proposals to patch up these unfortunate effects. A loss compensation scheme for the county municipalities was necessary, and the Left and Christian People's Party believes that small municipalities which have involuntarily become standing for themselves should receive compensation. I think the Storting's policy for the framework transfer to the municipalities is now leading to wild roads. We need reworked income systems for the municipal sector, not a patchwork that results from the use of the income system for purposes other than equivalent services between municipalities. The Central Party is strengthening regional and regional policy appropriations by 600 million. kr. The budget agreement has increased the framework of regional development funds by 200 million. kr. The problem is that half of this is taken from the county framework. The money is taken from the counties and given to the counties. This is in line with very many other redeployments in the budgetary agreement. Regional and regional policy appropriations have been drastically reduced in recent years. In the communication on regional reform, the government said that it would strengthen the role of county councils as a social developer. It is in stark contrast to the fact that the appropriations for this area are halved. The Centre Party has submitted a budget for the whole of Norway. Our budget aims to create equivalent opportunities for development and services for the people. Our budget is therefore a clear alternative to the centralisation line that is followed by the government and their supporters in decisions here at the Stortinget today. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Centre Party and inform you that we support proposal No. 18, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e540	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e547	We have a government that invests in the municipal sector, and numbers are more time-consuming: In 2015, the municipal sector achieved its best net operating profit since 2006. While the average real growth in municipalities in the years 2009–2013 was 1.4 pst., the average growth was 2.2 pst. in 2013–2016. The growth in free income per capita was 0,1 pst. in 2009–2013, while it was 1.1 pst. for the period 2013 to 2016. There is no lack of fear from red-green politicians who, throughout the 2013 election campaign, claimed that the right in government would starve the municipalities. Now all this has been made a shame. Does the representative, Mr. Greni, realise that they were wrong in the 2013 election campaign, and will she give the government credit for a stronger bet on the municipalities than the red-green government could?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e554	The alternative budget of the Central Party would provide a better starting point for the municipal budget in all 428 municipalities in Norway. The strong redistribution that the government has put in, we wanted to correct it, but at the same time, all of the 428 municipalities would have a much better starting point for their budget. I'm following the local media in the South-Trøndelag, and when I see reports from municipal government meetings that are going on in December, it's mostly a crisis. How are they going to try to avoid ROBEK? How are they going to be able to finance the big cuts? How is Tidal going to be able to take the cut of seven million? kr to which the government is now adding, as they will not do anything about the interest rate on capitalisation? On the contrary, the municipal economy is such that it forces municipalities to merge. I just don't know what to do in the picture that's being drawn. Then the media storages must be completely wrong with what is reality out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e561	The papers in December are now quite similar to those that were under the eight red-green years. Local politicians work to get the budget together because the desire is always bigger than the funds available. I may have heard a little wrong, but I almost got the impression that Mr. Greni thought the budget was worse after the conciliation. In that case, I found it strange that the Central Party thought it was when the Christian People's Party and the Left have spent more money on district policy than the efforts that were already in the budget. What I'm going to ask about, owes the attack to ear-marked appeals. Essentially, we have gone in the direction of giving more confidence to local democracy. An exception has been made by the fact that parts of the post at an early stage in the school were sent to an even larger mail. But if it is that one is so much against ear-marked additions – why was there even more ear-marked additions in the eight years of the Central Party in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e570	The centre party is against earmarked grants as a permanent arrangement. However, when introducing new tasks for municipalities, earmarked grants can be a good solution for a transitional period. The agreement has been more eye-marked both on the county and on the municipal side. One might call it a bet when a bet on several teachers in high school – it's another bet we definitely support, because I think early efforts are important in school, but to call it a bet when one moves money from the free resources, which the municipalities themselves can dispose of, to spend them on teachers in high school, it's not a bet, it's just an earmarking of free resources. KS’ comments in the consultation round in the committee were very clear: there is no room for manoeuvre for municipalities. What has been called free money initially will be tied up to underlying costs that have not been compensated. And when, in addition to that agreement, the free resources have been taken from them and they have been earmarked, the situation will be even more demanding for the municipalities. The action room is gone. The municipalities have committed all the funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e579	I must say that I heard with interest on the post of the representative of Mr. Greni. So I thought that now she must be able to tell a little bit about her own policy, too, instead of just attacking the centre parties and the government. I can imagine asking the representative, Mr. Greni, so she gets the opportunity to tell me a little bit about her own policy. In the proposal for a budget, the Central Party proposes to cut the new grant called regional centre grants, which I have at least a clear view of, when I have been around the country, that very many of the Senterparti rapporteurs around are very pleased with, because this corresponds to the big city grant. Then I have to say I am surprised that the Central Party will actually cut that handshake in order to have the opportunity to create stronger regional centres around the country as a clear response to the big city grant. It surprises me, and I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e587	It's time!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e592	The regional centre grant is probably one of the least understandable in the entire draft budget. There will be differences between two neighbouring municipalities – a municipality that was a regional centre in 2010, so it will have to be subfinanced by maybe 10 million. SEK-20 million. kr in 2018 in relation to the neighbouring municipality, which becomes a regional centre because it joins with other municipalities. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the representative of Skkelstad can stand here and defend a system that makes the services of two neighbouring municipalities very different because one happened to have 9 000 inhabitants before the municipal reform and the other happens to have 9 000 inhabitants after the municipal reform. It is completely incomprehensible that they consider such a scheme, which will provide completely different services for residents of other similar municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e602	This autumn, in addition to examining the budget, we have been dealing with several things on the Stortinget. The government, together with the Left, has also worked to implement two major reforms, municipal reform and regional reform. The two reforms are based on understanding that a forward-looking rural policy will contribute to the creation of regional centres that can act as growth engines outside major cities. In order to succeed, it is important to create larger and more robust municipalities that are increasingly able to handle the large tasks assigned to them. At the same time, in the process, it has been important for the Left to create viable and forward-looking regions that can handle a number of current tasks of the State. The left has thus been a driver for the financial basis for the strengthening, not weakening, of municipalities and counties in this budget. When we talk about local economy, we're not just talking about gray bureaucrats, grant schemes and budgets. We talk about care and care, about the honoraries and wives who each day put their souls in caring for our parents, siblings and children. It is those who ensure that, regardless of health status, one is treated with dignity. In this context, I would like to stress the Left's support for the comment on, among other things, transitional arrangements to ensure that construction is arranged for district heating where the municipality has decided that it is a binding obligation for district heating. The fact that the national building legislation contains such an obligation to organise is logical and builds up under local democracy. One of the most important steps taken in this budget, and where I want to praise the government parties for their goodwill, is to participate in looking at a loss compensation, which the representative Mr. Greni hasselled over, and which, in her view, is clearly immaterial. I actually think that's what we've done, because you can't necessarily level it right away. Therefore it was important for us and the Christian People's Party that the loss compensation was continued. This is glued that allows us to have the secondary schools in the districts – that gives predictability. It also provides predictability for a solid school offer. This is a clear sign that the districts and regional reform underpin the confidence in the new regional level. When people decide to settle in the districts, access to good schools is crucial. That's why it's so important to make sure of this. Pending a new income system, which we have to get when we put in place the new regions, the new counties, these will be transitional arrangements that are absolutely necessary. The same applies to regional development funds. Regional development funds and corporate loan and grant schemes are important tools for industrial development in the districts – I myself have been in the county for several periods. This is important in order to also be able to be an engine in this respect. The same applies to strengthening Siva, which contributes to innovation centres, including: on Steinkjer, and in Romesdal we have the Innovation Centre Åndalsnes, we have innovation buildings on Ås, and we have Tindved cultural garden and incubator planning, for example on the Gardermoen – to name a few. These are schemes that it is important for the regional level to continue to operate. Enterprise development is not only about infrastructure but also about using regional development funds for it. These funds are important for the county itself to manage. As a democrat, I believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that people are best placed to rule their own lives. The size cannot afford to question that principle by increasingly taking decisions away from it. Several important grant schemes include: Interreg funds, which lead to greater interaction across national borders. I want to enable our county councils to create interregional development projects with neighbouring regions, which have meant too many. There is no doubt that it will be important in the future, even when we get the new regions, the new states, in place. I have seen during this budgetary process how important cooperation is, and how negative the outcome is if you cut appropriations for something that is already in progress. I repeat to myself: in order for regional reform to be a success, we are dependent on strengthening the funding of the county councils, not weakening it. The budget now presented ensures a serious regional commitment that is proportionate to the objective set by the government, along with the Left, in the area of regional reform. That is why we want clearer wording, which ensures compensation for municipalities that have opted for bundling but that because of the unwillingness of other municipalities remain outside. This will not be the majority in the committee, but we will continue to fight for the result of aggregation – as the representative Njåstad also replied to Mr Greni in an earlier exchange of lines. In the alternative budget of the Left, we were even more offensive when it came to facilitating a forward-looking district policy. Not everything we wanted in the budget was included, but I can safely say that the budget contributes to a stronger district Norway that makes it possible for our children to live in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e627	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e632	In the alternative budget of the Left there are several initiatives in the municipal sector, but there are also several examples of the poor implementation of the left in the budgetary agreement with the Government. The left put in its alternative budget of money to multiple kindergartens. In the budget agreement, there was less money for kindergartens because of increased cash support. The left turned money into the minimum social welfare code. It did not enter into the budgetary agreement. The left reversed the cut to resource-requiring services, even here it was not implemented. The strengthening of municipal child protection or the reversal of the changes in the physical therapy diagnostic list were also not achieved by the Left, nor by increasing the free revenues of municipalities. My question to the representative of Skjelstad is this: Will the Left say that it is difficult to get the government parties involved in strengthening the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e639	There are a lot of measures in our alternative budget, and I appreciate that Eirin Sund is so pleased with that. But in negotiations, you also have to see what is the room for opportunity. As I said before, the arrangement in the budget has been good. Of course, we won't make it all. Eirin Sund is right that it is not a primary goal for Left to increase the cash support. We clearly believe that having good babysitting is better and more targeted for those involved. Of course, there may be exceptions for people who, because of geography, do not have the opportunity to have kindergartens, but initially I think having a good kindergarten is a good integration policy and also a good policy for the family, and not least for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e650	As I was in the post, the Left says that it is very satisfied with the cuts in the income of many municipalities that are greatly reduced due to the new income system. Left writes that ‘The left has been an ardent driver of the municipal reform and has found together with the government a sensible new income system that premises converging municipalities’. Yes, the Left has contributed to major redistribution. 92 municipalities lose 500 million. kr as a result of these changes when they enter into force. In the Centre Party, we believe that the income system for municipalities should ensure people throughout the country, in urban or districts, in small or large municipalities, equivalent services in schools, care for the elderly, health, kindergarten, etc. Do I understand that right when I see it as not the entry of the Left into the income system, that the Left believes, on the other hand, that the income system should primarily be used to override local people's will in terms of structure and forms of cooperation between municipalities, so that the objectives of the Left's national policy can be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e660	I think it is very interesting that the representative Mr Greni points out that, among other things. Centerparti-Kommunen Steinkjer will lose its regional centre grant of approximately 5 million. kr. I'm going to take that up, of course, because this is interesting. If the Centre Party comes to power again, they are now clearly confirming that the regional centre grants that we have introduced are being removed. Any income system must be based on the provision of good services in all municipalities. One can not only have estimates in relation to the location of the municipalities – qualitatively good services must also be provided in all the municipalities of the country. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the representative and the Central Party agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e667	Unfortunately, after the budgetary conciliation, we have to note that the Left has also opted for the Right Party and the Advance Party in favour of child poverty and climate change, which could mean something. It may be this regional reform, that one should draw and refurbish all of Norway without content, which is the most important thing for the Left when it comes to chalk, but I hope for the longest time that the climate exposure is large. There, the municipal sector has a major responsibility both for reducing its own gas emissions and for preparing for more extreme weather. I know that the Left has invested some money, but what SV suggests is a permanent loan scheme – in line with the municipalities that have in order to build a nursing home – in order for municipalities to be able to take these large investment promises that are necessary to equip themselves with more extreme weather. Why does the Left not agree with such a need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e673	Much of what the representative Karin Andersen points out can be very sensible in between – not least looking at the preparedness around Norwegian municipalities from a climate perspective. That is why I think it is quite clear that, although the representative has responded to the need for stronger regions, there is no doubt that stronger regions, stronger municipalities, much more than with today's structure, will have a stronger and better preparedness to deal with even unfortunate events that cannot be predicted. It surprises me a little that SV is unable to see that larger municipalities and larger regions will actually be a big blow and a further fight for climate and not least for the possibility of interaction. It surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e683	SV is very concerned with strong municipalities and strong states. For this reason, SV prioritises the municipal sector most – of all parties. We propose to increase the municipal economy by approx. $2,6 billion. kr more than the government, and it is about twice as much as other opposition parties. That's because we know that it's the economy that's most important, not the size. It means very little. For SV, it is a choice of value that we want better care for the elderly, good schools, child protection that takes care of all children who need it, and we also need municipalities to take climate responsibility. Therefore, we grant money to the local government sector rather than provide tax relief to the wealthiest in the country, which does not contribute to jobs. This, on the other hand, makes a great effort on the local economy. That gives a lot of jobs. It gives you good welfare. It provides better education and skills for the people who will create jobs in the future. We have great efforts on the food budget too, but I don't have time to get into it here. In our arrangement, we want to step up two admissions to kindergartens, and we want to step up the number of qualified employees in kindergartens. It's incredibly important. We want more teachers at school. We want physical activity, culture, food, and we want to earmark money for the school health service. Yes, we want to label the earpiece. I just don't think it's possible that year after year we promise children and young people better school health services, but we don't label the money. In many municipalities there will be no school health service, and it is really a bad message from politicians to young people who must believe in democracy, that when we grant money, it must be. If we don't get to say that the money is just free income, and then the municipalities get to decide the sea. We want to strengthen child protection. We want to earmark money for the care of the elderly, to increase staffing for the entire positions in the care of the elderly. We will strengthen the system of user-led personal assistants and increase state co-financing, especially for resource-intensive services. We also want to have a proper commitment to rehabilitation in the municipalities and not the dwindling plan that the government has, where they actually have less money for rehabilitation and physical therapy for next year than we have had before. It's one of the most ugly maneuvers I think the government is doing. We want a national library promise. We also want a green shift in municipalities, so that they get money to reduce their climate emissions, and also that they get both subsidies and funds from a loan scheme to make the climate adaptations necessary to ensure infrastructure against extreme weather. In the case of housing, it is necessary to do something. The budget presented by the government is accurate – from the poorest to the richest. We in SV want to turn it, from those who have a lot, and give to important things. Then we can't have a tax system that's rigged for speculators, who speculate in housing, and a housing support system that fewer people get housing support for next year. It is nice to hear representatives of the government standing here saying that they have strengthened the housing support system. How in the world is it achieved when housing is scarcely supported? Is it true that when fewer people receive housing, the government and the supporting parties feel that it is good? Yes, it is true that some changes have been made, but fewer are supported. We've become more people in this country. Housing prices have doubled in the last ten years. The income of disadvantaged groups has remained silent, and fewer help are given to maintain their homes. Therefore, SV has a strong commitment to the housing sector in this budget. In addition, through their purchases, we believe that the State should contribute more to bringing in more apprentices. I am surprised to see that there are more people who are not in it. We also want to strengthen county councils, with support both for public transport and for their own contribution to a larger apprenticeship grant, in particular those municipalities where there is a great need for child and care workers and health professionals in the future. I would like to mention the suggestions that SV is alone about or is part of the proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e702	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e709	On the right, we are concerned that the regional development funds allocated to county municipalities are being used to contribute as much as possible to jobs and value creation around Norway. SV has proposed, in one of the proposals just made by the representative Karin Andersen, that the system of resilient regions be defined in such a way that county councils cannot spend such money on oil and gas-related development. It is in itself an over-control of county councils, but it also bears witness to a lack of understanding of the functioning of business. In fact, very much of the technology that oil and gas industries have is used to create new jobs, new industries, and it is also used to develop technologies to reduce emissions. I see that SV today invites the Workers' Party to government cooperation. There will hardly be any alliance for value creation if SV's policy is to be implemented. My question to SV is simply: is this proposal really well thought out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e716	Yes, it is. The main challenge facing us is the climate challenge. Then we have to lean less on oil and gas in the future, sponsor it less, because today the state sponsors the oil and gas industry with large sums of money every year – binds us more and more to it. What we want the regions to be supported, and to which we grant much more than the government does in this budget and in the food budget, is to invest in industries that are green and renewable, throughout the country. Actually, that's absolutely necessary. When it comes to achieving the climate objectives and not becoming a slowdown in this way, the jobs come abroad and not in Norway, as the government seems to want, there is a need for over-management. Government governance is needed, both to achieve environmental objectives and to ensure that green jobs come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e723	The representative from SV has a high level of involvement for children, as shown in the post, and in particular having children early into the nursery. The Christian People's Party shares the idea that it should be possible to have a kindergarten when the child is about 1 year old, but my question to Karin Andersen is, based on the idea that we have been working for the last few years to get a longer parental leave, so that parents can stay home with their child longer after birth, does the representative Andersen think that it might actually be possible that the kindergarten offer should have been given earlier? What's the reason why it's 1 year that's necessarily the only one right? And is it that it's not good for the child to be home with mother or father when the child is 1 year old? I see in the SV's alternative budget that you want to liquidate the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e728	Yes, we want to liquidate the cash support, and there are many reasons why. Good kindergartens are good for children. I believe that the Christian People's Party fully agrees. But we think it's wrong to pay healthy people to be at home. That's what we're doing now. We don't pay people to be at home with their children, so it's not the cash support system. You can pay others to take care of the child, just keep your child away from kindergarten. It is not a good use of government money, especially when you see that the Christian People's Party has also been involved in the ugly cuts to the performers who cannot be in work. It's been cut in the children's supplement of thousands of dollars for them. So that's where we take money from those who can't work, and pay healthy people to be home. We strongly disagree with that. So I think that the Christian People's Party needs to think a little bit about what they're really contributing to here. Nor does SV want to bet on e.g. Six-hour day, so that more people can get better time for their family life, combine it with work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e738	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and thorough work on the budgetary position despite a hectic enquiry. A special thanks to the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who together with the government parties have found good solutions that serve both our citizens and our municipalities. Although the budget we are discussing today is valid for 2017, we need to have a longer time horizon than that. We must also have a social perspective beyond our own budgetary areas. Our main mission is to contribute to the security of well-being, so that our children and generations after them can also experience a society with opportunities for everyone. If we are to preserve our good welfare society in the future, we must solve the challenges of our time. We know that oil revenue will go down, and that welfare expenditure will go up. International unrest and refugee flows require more of us. Norwegian enterprises and jobs are moving through migration to find new ways of feeding that can secure work and finance our common resources. Climate change and green shifts will affect both everyday life and business life in the coming years. It is more important than ever that we succeed in renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector, so that we can solve more tasks for the future. This applies not least to the municipalities, which are and must be the foundation of our welfare society and of our democracy. The government's objectives are strong, living communities. We want to spread power and build society from below. Then we also need to build larger welfare municipalities that have the power to provide good services and promote good social development. A large majority on the Stortinget have joined the goal of fewer municipalities, and we have come a long way in the right direction. About half of the country's inhabitants live in a municipality that has agreed to merge, and one in four will live in a new municipality after 2020. Today, the whole of 88 municipalities have mutual decisions to build a new municipality. Greater improvements have been made in the municipal structure over the last three years than in the previous fifty. As notified, I want to present a case to the Stortinget during the spring, and I am also convinced that the municipal reform will continue, simply because the local authorities' challenges do not go beyond that. In order to succeed in creating strong communities, we also need to provide the municipalities with the necessary financial space for action. The government has done that throughout the period. We have set up a better room for action for the municipalities in our draft budget than the red-green government proposed in its last years. These frameworks have made it possible to carry out a knowledge promise at school, including: through a strong commitment to the continuing training of teachers. We've reinforced the early efforts in high school, so that more children get good opportunities to learn, evolve and realize their dreams. We have stepped up the efforts at health stations and school health services in the municipalities to help children and young people who are struggling to master everyday life and school. The government has also made it possible for municipalities to give priority to those who need it the most, namely those who struggle with alcohol or have mental health challenges. Even when we look at the fasit, the municipalities have had a significantly better financial situation in recent years, and these are not theoretical exercises, as the representative Helga Pedersen said in his article. No, this is the fasit. The task-corrected real growth per capita in the municipalities was on average 1,1 pst. in the years 2013-2016, during the cooperation parties, while it was only 0,1 pst. when the red-green fell from 2009 to 2013. Indebtedness growth in municipalities has fallen sharply, and the result in the municipal sector in 2015 was the best in ten years. The county municipalities have also strengthened their real growth during the Right-Fremskritsparte government compared to the last four red-green years. We, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have thoroughly shamed the fear of starving the municipalities. The debate on the local economy cannot be a competition to give the most money. This is a competition we all want to lose. With the perspectives we see in the future, we need to be much more concerned about using the resources we have, in a better way. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has recently published analyses looking at the relationship between the use of municipal resources and the provision of services. The analyses show that municipalities have the potential to release billions if they learn from the best municipalities. This means that they can find room to improve quality or expand the offer in schools, kindergartens, health and care. This work is becoming even more important in the years to come. Also in the country there is considerable room for renewal, simplification and improvement. The government has put in place a strong commitment to digitisation, which has already produced good results. We're proposing to grant $12 billion. kr for new ICT and digitisation measures in 2017. These are large and small projects that simplify everyday life for citizens, businesses and employees. We make a digital health card for pregnant women, so that they can release today's handwritten cards that must be carried at all health care meetings. We are developing new and better ICT solutions for dealing with applications for parental leave and one-off benefits. The Brønn Island Health Registers modernise the processing systems for 18 different registers, which are important for business. A solution shall be provided for digital communication between police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice. The co-financing mechanism was established in 2016 and shall ensure the implementation of several profitable small and large ICT projects. The system has been a success. This year, 105 million has been allocated. to the scheme for 12 different projects. The total socio-economic profitability of the 12 projects is 4.9 billion. kr. Next year, we will strengthen the arrangement to allow for even more projects, and I am pleased that the opposition is now showing enthusiasm for the arrangement in the budget position. Digitisation measures, clear language work and the capture of time thieves are important for creating a more efficient and user-oriented public sector. It's important, but in the future we need more people who contribute to the state budget. At this time, the package of measures for municipalities is also an important contribution to keeping the wheels running in areas experiencing declines and closures as a result of tough shifts in oil-related industries. Then we connect capital, free hands and unresolved tasks. For the municipal sector alone, there is a separate 650 million measure package. to areas of the South and West which have been particularly affected. This year we've granted 400 million. kr, such as have been converted by Hatlestrand Health Centre and housing for minor refugees in Kvinnherad. I have visited several municipalities that have started projects with funds for the current year. Some are refurbishing schools, others are renewing sports facilities. This is an unbureaucratic and effective system for ensuring work and activity, while at the same time providing better services to local communities. Although we have world-class welfare systems, there are many that fall outside. The government will close holes in the social security network so that fewer falls outside and more people are lifted. That's why next year we will make important improvements in housing support, which is a very important scheme to ensure that everyone has a good place to live. We correct system errors introduced by the government of Stoltenberg in 2009 and ensure that housing support is regulated as price developments take place. This year we have strengthened housing support especially for families with children. We have expanded the housing support so that those living in housing communities too can receive support. The sum of the measures we adopt in the budget today facilitates the necessary transformation to ensure work and activity, while helping to ensure well-being both today and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e792	If the Council of State is afraid that the municipalities are spending too much money, I can comfort him that the budget study for KS shows that the municipalities will cut about 3 billion. kr in 2017. It is in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's office, which has no efficiency potential. Earlier in the autumn, the Minister of Local Affairs of the News Agency of the newspapers stated: ‘I am proud that we have ensured good economic growth for the municipalities in the last three years.’ It's a self-satisfaction that stands in stark contrast to the reality that many municipalities now experience. Despite record oil spending and record unemployment, politicians locally lack the money they need to hire people in kindergarten, school, health and care for the elderly. Is the Council of State proud that the annual growth of employment in municipalities is more than halved under this government, i.e. that the municipalities employ less than half as many people now as they did with the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e804	I am pleased that the representative Helga Pedersen did not repeat his claims that there was a better growth in the municipal economy under the red-greens than it has now been in the cooperation parties, because the fasitancy is quite clear. It is also presented in a reply to the representative Helga Pedersen on 5 December, where the representative can read both about the room for action and about the fasit. I have great respect for the work of rapporteurs and local politicians from all parties. I know that they face demanding priorities every day. I know that local politicians want more than that there is room for action. What we have pointed out is that the municipalities, like the state, have a potential for efficiency improvement, and that we need to ensure the municipalities a real and good development. We now see that the combination of transfers from the state and good growth in tax revenue means that municipalities will only have 10.1 pst this year. growth compared to the period last year. This illustrates that the municipalities have a good framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e811	I recorded that the municipal minister would not answer my question, and that he must resort to extraordinary tax revenues this year to defend the municipal economy that the municipalities have right now. The party went to the elections in 2013 to deprive municipalities of the opportunity to collect taxes on property. In the 2011 election campaign, Højres Vice President Jan Tore Sanner said: ‘Eigendom taxes have become a theme in the campaign, and we are pleased about that’. He stressed that the Right would ‘reduce and in the long term remove the property tax’. Last spring, figures from the SSB showed that two out of three Right-Handed municipalities have some form of property tax, and with Jan Tore Sanner as Minister of State, the property tax in Norwegian municipalities has increased by 36 pst. Is the Vice President of the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, satisfied with the efforts of the Minister of State to reduce and eliminate the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e818	The representative Helga Pedersen knows perfectly well that property tax is a local decision, and an important reason why property tax revenue is increasing so rapidly is that it has become socialist government in Oslo. With the Workers' Party at the rudder in Oslo, property taxes are now in place, and property taxes are rising. Then it's up to the individual municipality to assess whether you want to impose property taxes or not. But even if you take into account the growth that has been in property tax revenue in municipalities, the fasitium is that the real growth for municipalities has been significantly better below the centre–right than it was in the red-green years. This is communicated in response to the representative Helga Pedersen, and we have also been able to calculate the consequences if we take into account the property tax. Then I'm glad that the municipalities show a sense of urgency, and that they also show a sense of urgency in recruiting new people. It is possible to increase the quality of both school and kindergarten without the need to increase the costs extraordinarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e825	The ‘Lokaldemokratreform’ was called the ‘municipal reform’. The chairperson of the Committee confirms today in the evening post that the volunteer has been cancelled. 15-20 municipalities must coerce, it says. It is no surprise that there will be zero respect for the outcome of referendums and zero respect for local policy decisions. I've been warning you about that for a long time. What is even more daunting is that one can read further into the article that the county council's recommendation is crucial for the setting coming to the Grand Council. The fate of Norwegian municipalities shall be determined by who happens to be the county of Norway in 2016. It is referred to that Sigbjørn Johnsen in Hedmark and Lars Sponheim in Hordaland have not proposed coercive mergers. So those municipalities are going to be raised. In my home region, Os, Holtålen and Røros have discussed the community merger. There have been no in two of the municipalities. The County Council of South-Trundellag proposes coercion – in Hedmark not. [[The President cut off]] Will We then be in this round, and the Holtål be coerced? Is this in conflict with everyone...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e830	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e835	I didn't see any question, but I can comment on the post, because here it was just attention to what Mr. Greni sees as problematic. I would rather look at the work that local politicians from all parties have done, including the Senter Party. The rapporteurs of the Centre also see that they can build stronger welfare municipalities with others. Now it's 147 municipalities that have a yes decision, it's 88 mutual decisions, and it already looks like we're going down from 428 to 376 municipalities. What the Storting has said, namely that the reform is based on voluntary action, is firm, and it will stand firm. But the Storting has also said that there can be exceptions in special situations, and it is the government and finally the Storting that decides, neither statesmen nor others. It's the Big Thing that finally decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e840	Can the Council confirm that what is in the evening post today is right that the County Council has recommended coercion, it will be proposed to the Stortinget, and where the County State has not done so, will it not be proposed to the Stortinget? That would mean a great deal of discrimination, depending on how the State happened in each state. Is it true, then, that in the case of the three who have discussed merger, Us is being raised because the County of Hedmark respects the local decisions, while the Holtål is at risk of being coerced because the County Council of Southern Tribes does not respect them? Does the Council of State believe that it is a good democratic principle that a single official should determine the fate of Norwegian municipalities and who is being abandoned and not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e845	If what Mr. Greni said would have been right, I would have agreed. But it is not an official who decides which municipalities should join together. That's what the Storing does. The size is democratically complex and the representatives are democratically elected. It is up to the Storting to make the decisions. The government will file a case for the Stortinget based on the decisions of the municipalities, based on recommendations from the county councils and our own assessments, and then it is the Stortinget that ultimately decides. I believe that today we should pay tribute to the many local politicians who have done a great and important job for their citizens and not least for those who come after. When municipalities join forces and build stronger welfare municipalities, citizens will receive better services. Community reform will continue. There are several errors in the Evening Post article, including: that the municipal reform has stopped. It's definitely not stopped up, it's rolling on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e854	The basis for all people is that they have a home. Now housing prices are increasing at a rate that makes very many people with ordinary income unable to buy. Nearly all economists participating in the Norwegian public conversation encourage tax transfer from work and income to property, that is, the opposite of what the government does. We have a tax system rigged for speculation. The government makes some tiny changes that don't mean anything to the world, among other things. what came yesterday with increased equity requirements for secondary dwellings. It's about people who have money and who get loans, so it doesn't matter. And then you have the housing support at the bottom, which is supposed to be the safety net for everyone. Many misdemeanors have fallen out of the scheme, and the government continues, despite its own figures saying that this year there are 112,300 people getting housing support, until next year there are 100,500 people getting housing support – so there are 1,200 fewer. Is it good that fewer people get housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e860	We are now taking some important steps to improve housing. We are correcting a system error introduced by the red-green government in 2009. That's good. We ensure that there is actual income and not old income that underpins the assessment of housing support. We have strengthened housing support for families with children, and we have introduced the possibility of housing support for people living in the book collective. Yes, there is still a need to improve housing support. It's our most important housing social measure. But we are making some important decisions today. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has strengthened housing support. I'm glad – it's going to benefit many people. Then I am also happy that the housing building has taken up its work. We have to go back to 1982 to find a corresponding increase in the number of dwellings. And we carry out simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building that will also lead to faster planning processes and lower construction costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e869	It has repeatedly been assured that merged municipalities will come out better financially and not experience a drop in government transfers over the years between mutually positive decisions and actual aggregation. Can the Council of State ensure that it is still so and that it applies without exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e874	We have now applied the income system, and we are also implementing an important municipal reform together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have created a separate transitional arrangement for those municipalities that join together by retaining full basic grants until aggregation, which will then be part of the breakdown grant. The budgetary agreement now also agreed between the Cooperation Parties and the Government Parties that the small municipal grant should be part of this transitional arrangement. On that basis, we believe that the merged municipalities are well maintained, and they also receive very favourable economic instruments through one-off support, reform support and also the infrastructure pot provided by the cooperation parties for 2017, where it will be possible for municipalities to apply for a total of 150 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e879	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e884	For good reason, we hear from the government parties and the municipal minister how well everything has been and how well the country is run. Not least we hear how good the municipal economy has become. For those who sit out of local government and have to make the budgets, reality looks different. The Sanner fasite doesn't match reality. In Eastfold, for example, Held with the right of the driver's seat strongly in order to increase the property tax, in agreement with the right of the driver's seat they will increase the property tax, and in Eidsberg with the right of the driver's seat they will now introduce property tax. Then we have to ask ourselves the question: will all these Right-Handed municipalities increase and introduce property taxes because the government of Solberg and the municipal minister of Sanner have prioritised the municipal economy, or is it such that these Right-Handed municipalities have poor political leadership that cannot manage the economy? What does the Minister of State think? Does he think that these Right-Rapporteurs are in charge of property taxes in their municipalities because the government and the supporting parties have given them enough money? 9 out of 18 Eastfold municipalities receive less than the estimated wage and price increases, and we take with us the cut in resource-intensive services, the government has no particular credibility in terms of the local economy. On the contrary, they have had other and more important things to spend on. Taxes of several billion a year to Norway’s richest were more important than the municipal economy. The Labour Party has other priorities for municipalities and counties: 3 billion. kr more and the reversal of the increase in the proportion of resource-intensive users. There's a warm welcome out there. Halden wanted 11 million. kr more, Eidsberg would get almost 4.5 million. kr more, and guess would get over 2.5 million. kr more for care, school and health only in 2017 with the Workers' Party's proposal. Total more to the Østfold municipalities: 105.7 million. kr only in 2017. If we go as far away from Eastfold as possible and look at the Finnmark municipalities, Alta would get 8.8 million. SEK more with our arrangement, Vadsø 2.6 million. kr more. So a total of more to the Finnmark municipalities would be 35.7 million. kr in 2017. The municipalities of the municipal minister's own county would receive more than 228 million. kr more with the proposal of the Labour Party for local economy for 2017. There will be some teachers, nurses and other health services for this money. Eastfold County would receive more than 43 million. kr more for public transport, dental and secondary schools in 2017 with the proposals of the Workers' Party. Akershu County would receive 85 million. kr more. Hordaland wanted $90 million. kr more. I guess I would believe that the council representative, Mr. Njåstad, agreed that the county councils would use this money. This could even be said by the municipal minister that the money would be used in the counties for good use. The government and the municipal minister could have strengthened the municipal economy for the benefit of most people, and the municipal minister actually had the opportunity to do so, but did not use it. It has negative consequences in the municipalities. It is noticed that the municipalities lost the fight when Siv Jensen, Erna Solberg and Jan Tore Sanner distributed the money in the state budget together with the Left and Christian People's Party. Municipal welfare services did not reach, tax cuts were more important, and that is what remains of the municipal economy after this government. The priority of the working party is different. We're going to do these problems together. That's why we can also give better priority to the economy of the municipalities and the county municipalities, and we do it because it's necessary, and because the people out there deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e905	There was a nice post from the representative Lauvås about money that might not exist. The municipalities are the foundation of Norwegian democracy and are responsible for basic welfare services for all. It is therefore very gratifying that we have a government that strengthens the welfare of the municipal sector, which ensures Norway for the future and facilitates growth and new jobs throughout the country. This year's draft budget for the local government continues its commitment to local and regional democracy. In addition, the Government Party and the Co-operation Party have jointly gathered on measures that support government reform and facilitate the implementation of reform efforts by the municipalities. We have a government that has invested in the municipal sector. In 2015, the municipal sector achieved its best operating performance since 2006. It's a fact, Lauvås. The municipalities have gained much more real growth in their incomes under the government of Solberg than under the previous red-green government. It's a fact. The growth in free income per capita was 0,1 pst. from 2009 to 2013, while he was 1.1 pst. for the period 2013 to 2016. It's a fact. There is no lack of fear and horror from red-green politicians, who argued throughout the 2013 election campaign that right in government would starve the municipalities. We've put fear to shame. Our government has provided a far better community economy than the red-green ones, and it is a fact that red-green politicians must also accept. Norway has been both capable and fortunate for a long time and has been in a special economic position compared with many other countries. We are now facing new challenges. Low oil prices, higher unemployment in parts of the country and demanding prospects in the oil sector have made it necessary to implement comprehensive measures to promote the transition and strengthen business and municipalities. This is particularly true of municipalities in the south and west. I'm myself a Westerner, and I've seen how more and more offshore vessels have anchored. I know many people in the oil industry who have lost their jobs, and even more people who are uncertain about what future will bring. I am very pleased that the government, through a comprehensive package of measures for rehabilitation and maintenance, has strengthened its contribution to the activity and conversion of municipalities in the South and West. In demanding times, a business-friendly policy is entirely needed to contribute to conversion and to provide a basis for future growth in all parts of the country. One of the most important measures is the construction of infrastructure and transport. National road investment has had a significant increase under this government. Since the government change, the budget for trade has increased by a total of 50 pst. One has almost double the permissions for maintenance and renewal, and four-fold the permissions for planning new projects. The government will continue its efforts on the county road network with an additional 200 million. kr. In total, the permits for the county roads will be 1.4 billion. kr higher than the previous government in 2013. The government has also continued the system of interest compensation for investment in county roads, which the red-green government would liquidate. In addition, our government has put in place a holiday relief scheme for county road ferries that will lead to massive construction of fixed links on the coast. While the Labour Party has stood on the sidelines and cried out both ‘crisis’ and ‘very little and too late’ in addition to criticising the excessive use of oil money, we have had a government that has invested in building infrastructure, knowledge, research and innovation and faster conversion. It's this way we're taking Norway safely through the long-term transition. After eight years of reform-repudiation and debate and root in red-green governments, our government has taken the initiative of many reforms to enable municipalities to provide good welfare services, develop their communities and solve future challenges. In addition to the municipal reform and the regional reform, to be adopted in June 2017, the government has taken a number of measures, including: work on freedom of choice for citizens, digitisation of administration, simpler regulation, strengthening of government leadership and governance and a major effort to reduce public administration time. The government is leading a rural policy to create safe jobs throughout the country, through growth-enhancing tax incentives, strengthening research and innovation measures and massive commitment to culture. I've been traveling a lot in my own country lately. Asking a business community in District Norway what they think is the most important thing, it's business and government's commitment to entrepreneurial activity and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e943	When I sit and listen to the debate, I think I don't think there's anyone in this house who doesn't want all the people a good everyday life. But it's still a fact, addressed to the representative Lødemel and others through the president, that we have different recipes for how we intend to make this everyday life for people, and there's a big difference between the parties in this room. We have experienced a budget harvest that has been very special. We've seen a government that's been driven from hill to hill. Municipalities, business and people I hardly thought what they saw, and even less what they heard, but there was a consensus, and there was a lot of money. More money than ever will be spent without it being properly rectified where it is most needed. Those who have the most will get even more, and the differences continue to increase – between those who have, and those who don't. The main economic divisions in Norway are currently moving between those inside and those outside the labour market. It is more than 130 000 unemployed. Work, opportunities and security are the main pillars of the Workers' Party. Having a job to go to and a community that builds a good framework around one where a living lives is a prerequisite for security and for opportunities in everyday life. That community is the municipalities. Therefore, the Labour Party has high ambitions for better quality in well-being, care and schooling in the municipal sector. This is why we prioritise a strong and predictable local economy to ensure better schooling and care for the elderly. The Labour Party will invest in the future. We want to strengthen the local economy by 2 billion. kr and counties of 1 billion. kr in addition to the arrangements of the government. Our scheme would provide a significant boost to the economy of the municipalities and states, which in turn could increase the services of the people. We who come from the South West, who live closely on the situation there, see and know the importance of strengthening this part of the country. The municipalities there now have a large decline in their tax revenues as a result of the situation, resulting in large cuts in schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly. Several municipalities have also seen large increases in their social expenditure as a result of people losing their jobs and finally having to receive social assistance to survive. The government should see – they see it, but they should have seen it even more – the need for it now that we have to enable the municipalities to carry out their tasks and also have the opportunity to invest in the construction of more kindergartens and schools that would have employed people. Only my county, Rogaland, would have lost 80 million. kr more with our arrangement. In my county, the municipality would receive 200 million. kr more with our arrangement. I think the local politicians in both Sandnes, Egersund and Haugesund would appreciate that, not least those who live there. In addition, we have produced a package of measures specifically targeted at the South and the West, which is 1 billion. kr more than the government. It would have been incredibly good, good dollars, for a part of the country and people in a very difficult situation. But I have to say that we have a government that I feel does not see the seriousness well enough, and we have in particular a representative, Kambe from the Right, who thinks it is more important to shower with the feathers and use big words than to fill this need with real content. In fact, it is alarming and not credible when the representative Kambe here on Monday pushes the unemployed in a political game against the Workers' Party, while cutting the action package, not giving the municipalities the ability to produce the services that people need, while filling up the wallets for those who have the most from before. Then I want to say that what happened on Monday, which made the representative Kambe burst with the feathers, was not very wise of us who did it – it is also said, if he intends to come and take me on it afterwards. But the uncertainty at home does not diminish. It requires action. It requires willingness to actually do something about the situation. When one experiences that the community framework is not strengthened, but built down, that kindergartens, schools and housing and care centres are not built because of poor municipal economy, an additional people's everyday life deteriorates. Most of us at home know someone or have someone in our family who has lost their job. When the framework, which is the municipality around you, also creates uncertainty as to whether it is capable of providing services, there is an additional uncertainty that is quite tough to face people in the South West now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e966	The next speaker is Ingerd Schou. – The President does not know whether Kambe will take the floor for Health, but there is always an opportunity at the end of Christmas on the bench for a small debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e971	To the representative of Sund there is well reason to say about this painting of Norway in dark colors that I have not seen any demonstration train by the rapporteurs outside, and I do not see the big headlines that there is need in the municipalities. The fact that you have greater ambitions than what you receive from money is something that has gone on under many governments. I must also be allowed to comment on the description and reference of the representative of Lauvås to municipalities in Eastfold, which are now in the process of introducing property taxes. I have had discussions with several of the current rapporteurs and other politicians from different colours in these municipalities. The main message back is that this is how the person who doesn't know the story speaks. It may be good to remember that the position in Halden Municipality has reduced and cleared up after a mismanagement and got a deficit of more than minus 100 million. kr to become plus. That's not just what I was going to talk about. I would talk about using the common resources that are made available, in a good and effective way, so that the services that we provide, both for citizens and for businesses, are improved, simplified and renewed, so that everyone can benefit from it. I thought to draw attention to the following: government renews, simplifies and improves the public sector, not just to make services better, but to ensure that we have a timely welfare state and welfare services. That's absolutely necessary. Lower oil revenues and the need for new jobs in business make it more important than ever for management to be adaptable and to make the best use of the resources available to us. Overall, it is important to set up policies so that we constantly have the people's best and best interests in mind. The ‘Simplifying the daily lives of most people’ initiative will help to increase freedom of choice, less unnecessary bureaucracy and a modernised public sector. The right and government simplifies the law on planning and building, which includes: is an aid for the 100 000 construction products processed each year. It means something in everyday life. Electronic object lighting will facilitate everyday life in the purchase and sale of housing, and it will provide rationalisation gains both for the state and for real estate agents and finance industries. The fact that we are now digitising the Housing Bank's housing support and start-up loans makes it easier for the individual, for the inhabitants, to find out if they are entitled to support, search and get a quick feedback. We save the municipalities a total of 90,000 hours to drop paper forms. We simplify the rules on public acquisitions, for example: by raising the threshold from SEK 500000 to SEK 1 million. kr, and that only the winner of the competition now has to submit full documentation. This makes us simplify, renew and make it more effective. The government implements a number of simplifications for Norwegian companies, such as simplified tax returns, electronic formation of a limited liability company and the A-scheme. So far, this will save business for 7 billion. kr annually, and the work continues. The resources thus saved can be used in other ways to ensure that the well-being and development of our welfare state continues. In 2016, we reached a milestone in the work on clear legal language, a clear regulatory framework, through a ten-year agreement with the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo. The aim of the cooperation is for graduates to have learned to write clear and comprehensible legal texts, including laws and regulations. In new defence law, four earlier laws are merged into one, with a simpler and more understandable language. The Training Act is now being reviewed as part of the Clear Law Language project. In addition, work is being done on improving the language of existing legislation, forms and letters, both in the state and in the municipalities. This year, the right and government have also cooperated with the KS on how the State can support a time-to-time work in the municipal sector. As part of this cooperation, a toolbox for municipal improvement has now been launched. The Government has submitted a budget for 2017 with an offensive commitment to digitisation in the public sector – modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector so that citizens can obtain better services and free up time for other tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e999	In these days, the local government adopts the budgets for the next year. If the rapporteurs do not go on demonstration trains here outside Stortinget, 45 pst believes. by the municipalities that the 2017 budgetary process is more demanding than a year ago, according to the KS’s fresh budgetary study. But State Council Sanner says the municipalities have a good framework. It appears quite remote from reality for quite a number of local politicians around the country, and it tells something about the level of ambition for public services. The head of the committee, Mr. Njåstad, said in his statement that we are likely to hear from the opposition that next year it will be mild. Yes, maritime – there are good reasons why the Workers' Party has added 3 billion. kr more to the local government sector in 2017. Every penny is needed, and we've always been well above the Solberg government. Then I heard the representative Lødemel say that the representative Lauvås had a nice post about money that does not exist. Well, the money is definitely there, it's just that they're so incredibly wrong. The money's there. We are not quite amateurs in the Workers' Party when it comes to creating alternative budgets; if we thrive best when we can do so from government offices – and then they are not alternatives, they are actually adopted. The Chairman of the Committee, from the Progress Party, also made a number that they have increased the appropriations each year – from one year to the next. It was supposed to be just missing. This has been the case, and it is absolutely necessary, in particular to cover increased demographic costs and pension costs. But with the blue government's level of transfers, there won't be any money to make improvements in the service offer, unfortunately. The KS budget survey also shows that municipalities and county councils cut and streamline next year for more than 3.5 billion. kr – i.e. more than the growth of free income. Municipalities know a lot about getting the most out of the money and have a high point of turning stones. We all want efficient municipalities, but not poor municipalities, which are struggling to carry out statutory tasks satisfactorily. And on top of all of this, the government and their budget mates take $330 million. kr to resource-intensive users from municipalities. Once again, we heard the Council of State, Sanner, put forward comparisons with red-green times and claimed that one is full-on-height. But that's not true, and in any case, such a blue-blue defense becomes quite so special when this government has almost doubled the use of oil money. Then there should have been real opportunities to bet heavily on improving municipal services. Unfortunately, it's not like that. It is mildly regrettable that the municipal sector in my county, Oppland, misses 109 million next year. NOK which they would have received extra with the arrangement of the Workers' Party. And I repeat, to Solute flour, this is money that exists. Looking at a whole electoral period as a whole, it's about a lot of money that would boost the provision of services to small and large, child protection, school, care for the elderly and much more. Instead, the main issue of government – which we repeat, and will continue to repeat – is to secure billions of dollars in tax cuts. The Workers' Party's alternative government budget would provide 3 billion to the local government sector. kr more to route next year. We also have almost 1.5 billion. kr more to the hospital than what was the result of the civil agreement. I mention this because the tight hospital budget provides dramatic cuts that once again cause the municipalities to increase their tasks and expenses. But first of all, it's bad for the patients. In the interior, there are now major demonstrations – in which rapporteurs take part – and the hospital cuts proposed by the board of the Hospital Inland today are dramatic. The government and the cooperation parties have to take a lot of the blame for the situation, and I'm not going to stop to surprise that the Left chooses to be the worst when it comes to missing patient treatment appropriations. At the same time, the party's health figures, Ketil Kjenseth, spoke during the demonstration in Lillehammer. With their scheme, it had really gotten bad. The Labour Party prioritises work for everyone, education, health and climate. Then we need to focus on Community solutions that ensure good services for everyone across the country and sustainable development. We are at the heart of what distinguishes us clearly in Norwegian policy, when we deal with the municipal structure of the state budget: common welfare versus large tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1018	Let me start by commenting on the discussion that has gone on about housing support. There is no doubt that the housing support is weakened under this government, and I think you must be right-wing politicians on your neck to claim that the housing support has improved when there are fewer who receive support. With all due respect, it's not entirely in touch. Then this debate has also revealed other things, namely that there is a great difference in the level of ambition of government and opposition in the welfare policy of municipalities. The representative, Njåstad, spoke in 15 minutes, hardly mentioning school, kindergarten, or care for the elderly. He was properly concerned with care for the elderly and the fact that there are now six poor municipalities to test out the state funding of the care for the elderly. What Njåstad boasts of is, in fact, such a bad arrangement that the municipality after the municipality has withdrawn. The background is that the government has gone astray in a complicated bureaucratic form field, in which municipalities also lose money to join. Then there is no ideological resistance. We see that it is both Right-wing and Progressive Party politicians who are protesting against this system locally. The performance project of the Progress Party has ended up being – to quote someone other than myself – ‘completely hopeless’. That's not my word, that's Carl I. Hagen's word. The Labour Party has greater ambitions on behalf of Norwegian municipalities. We want to get to school early. We will strengthen the work against non-response. We want more kindergartens filled with good quality. And we want a worthy old age. That is why we also propose more money to the municipalities. While the government is very concerned with percentages and statistics and is trying to beat each other in the head with how history is to be written, it is sad to say that KS during the budget hearing in the committee last autumn said that next year's government's arrangement would at best mean zero growth without any room for action. The debate can undoubtedly be technical and complicated if you wish. Or you could do it very, very simple. The question is, is there going to be more or less well-being in municipalities because we're spending more money? I think the answer is pretty obvious. And that's what the voters have to decide about this fall: Do you want a government that prioritises well-being for everyone, or do you want a government that spends the money to make the few that have the most, even richer? I think – and I hope – that people choose a different majority. For all the families who are waiting for children to fall, it has something to say if they know if they get a nursery or not. For those students who are struggling, it has something to say if the extra teacher in high school disappears or not. And for those young people who have a hard time in life, it has something to say about whether the school health service door is open, or whether it's closed. Our alternative involves better welfare services for children and young people. This government has had more money than ever before – has set record in the use of oil money. It is in itself irresponsible and short-sighted to drag the MasterCard and send the bill to our children and our grandchildren. But then it becomes funny when Frank Jensen from the Right says something like rustling Norway for the future and making Norway less oil dependent. Or as the Council of State said, we know that oil revenue will go down and welfare expenditure will go up. Then it doesn't matter that you spend 100 billion. kr more in oil money and does not make it possible to prioritize welfare for most people in the municipalities. This government doesn't equip the municipalities for the tasks we're facing. This government does not insist on welfare. This government does not give priority to the youngest and the oldest living in our municipalities. Next year, the Norwegian people will have a very clear choice: do they want more tax cuts for those who have the most from before, or do they want to spend the big money on the big tasks and promise the important welfare services in our municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1044	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1049	The municipalities are those who exercise policies on a daily basis, which are shaped, among other things. from this hall. To do this, they need to be financially able to do so. If we are to have a good school offer, kindergarten offer, care provision and upgrade municipal roads and construction, then the financial framework we set is crucial to how well this offer is going to be. We can't get away from the fact that the Workers' Party has added 3 billion. kr more to municipalities and counties in 2017. For my county, that means about. One hundred million. kr more to the municipalities of Nordland and 100 mill. kr more to the county. But unfortunately, this government has the most focus on fewer municipalities and not on tasks. We see this in the community reform, and we see it in the regional reform. We have a government that cuts in the frames of the northernmost states. Nordland's going to get $284 million. kr less in 2020 with this government. Yes, the picture is even worse, because they've cut in DA funds, they've cut in regional development funds, and now they're cutting even resource-intensive user systems at 330 million. kr. Who's taking the bill? Well, the municipalities, they're holding the budgets today. They also cut almost 400 million. taxes on property on power plants. The verbal proposal that the Left and Christian People's Party were able to enter into the negotiations, where the government looked at the rate of capitalisation, has already been answered by the Minister of Finance. She says no for 2017. This means that several individual municipalities have to take in more than 10 million. kr already next year in its budget. No, this government is going the wrong way. The Christian People's Party and the Left have improved the budget in some areas. However, there is still too little room for action to meet the increasing unemployment, and it is still too tight for the municipal sector. Yes, after weeks of chaos, there is still a budget that gives huge tax cuts to those who have the most of them. The government says it's to get more jobs. But they don't succeed here either. Almost no new jobs are created. Employment growth in municipalities is now record low. Over the period 2006-2013, employment in the local government sector increased by an average of 8 500 per year. After this government took over, it's down to 3,000. That means there are fewer teachers, fewer nurses and fewer kindergarten teachers. Had even grown in the private sector, but no, neither has it. So the tax cuts don't work. The Minister of Local Affairs is today trying to boast that they are better at local economics than the Labour Party. That's not true. The Labour Party has had more in the budgets in all the years of this ageing period, yes, next year 3 billion. kr more, and in total this period 10-12 billion. kr. Yes, in fact, the growth in the total income of the municipalities was 2.5 pst. with our budget for the period 2006 to 2013. In Sanner's period, it's only 1.9 pst. What do the municipalities want, 2.5 pst. or 1.9 pst.? I know the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1064	I have followed the various representatives' comments on housing policy with great interest, and I must say that much of what is said is quite absurd. When we took over, we inherited a great aftermath in the housing building. We had a situation where municipal politicians spent all the time arguing with the state because of objections and rematches instead of regulating for residential areas. We had a situation where the individual resident had to argue with the municipality, instead of having simple enough rules to do more on his private property. That's exactly why this government has provided more local self-government, so that we get better land-use planning, gets speed on housing. That is why this government and the cooperation parties have been given a decision here in the Great Britain on simplification that sends down the building costs and up the pace. What do we see now? For the first time in many years, the number of new dwellings on the road is increasing. Now, if we keep this trend, we're going to have to go all the way back to the 1980s to see these numbers. A social housing policy is a priority area for this government. It was under the red-green that the residential speculators could take exactly what they wanted. In fact, this government, together with the cooperative parties, has made sure that the value of the secondary home equation has increased from 50 pst. to 80 pst. And then 90 pst. It is our finance minister who provides a regulation that you need to have higher equity when buying a secondary dwelling. Then it'll be a little special to hear that kind of a little angry post that this government is not doing enough for the social housing policy, when the evidence then until the degrees are visible. I also show that it is this government and the cooperation parties that have made sure that the housing support has become more accurate, and we have evened out the inequalities that were created under the previous government. It is our government that has made sure that the start-up loan scheme is accurate, that we are strengthening the BSU system. We build more student homes and provide even more rental homes. At a time when housing prices are rising, it's also interesting to see what the opposition is actually doing with politics, if we take away the criticism. Before the summer, the Workers' Party and SV, according to the housing manufacturers, arranged to send the prices up by NOK 100000 when their heating requirements were implemented. The Labour Party has introduced property taxes here in Oslo that make it more expensive to live for everyone, because prices are going up, and SV wants a national housing tax where people in the districts have to pay for the price rise in cities. It's unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1077	I was, of course, a sort of working rapporteur for the Foreign Affairs Directorate at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, so I should like to say a little about immigration. First a quote: Some European countries...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1084	The representative has to do it, but it's part two of the debate. But the representative would like to say something about immigration now, if he wants to, but it probably comes back to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1089	Then I'll also get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1094	It is approaching the final round of the municipal reform in this round. Every fourth citizen of our country will have a new municipality in 2020. Until now, 83 municipalities have become several to join 34 new municipalities. This will provide 379 municipalities in 2020. There will be greater changes in the municipal structure of three years of reform than in the previous 50 years. A total of 146 municipalities will decide that they want a municipal merger. More than half of Norway's population live in these municipalities. Some municipalities are still in process, and new decisions on municipal convergence will still be taken. It is very happy to see that so many municipalities have followed Stortinget’s desire for larger and more robust municipalities, and it shows that the government has closed down its work. There are many good tools in the government's plan for the municipal reform. Municipalities that decide to merge will retain basic and regional policy support, which is currently unabated for 15 years and with a decline over 5 years. There will be plenty of time to convert for these municipalities. In addition, they receive reform support and conversion support. Some municipalities want to merge with other municipalities without making mutual decisions in neighbouring municipalities. These municipalities may reduce the new income system from 2017 as a result of the differentiation of the base rate. It is not reasonable or fair for them to be allowed to move if they are working in a targeted way. In my home country, there are four municipalities in Sunnfjord that merge. The new municipality consists of Gaular, Naustdal, Jölster and Förde. He will have more than 20,000 inhabitants and will be an engine in the development of Sogn and Fjordane. My own municipality of origin, Hornindal, will join Volda Municipality in Møre and Romsdal – a new, exciting municipality that can be restored, among others. due to a new road connection through the Kviven. It also seems that exciting things are happening between Eid and Selje. Maybe other municipalities will hang out there as well. I wish several municipalities had taken the step to find a future partner. This is particularly true in Sogn, where Leikanger seems to be able to block a strong regional municipality in the Inner Sogn. It's a sin for Inner Sogn, and it's a sin for Sogn and Fjordne.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1109	I register that the representative soldering meal means that I am talking about money that does not exist. Then he continues at a good pace and frames up a so-called fascist, or so-called reality, which is to show that this government provides a better community economy. I can reveal to the representative Lødemel, and to the extent that everyone else, that: Yes, the money exists, it is just that the representative Lødemel and others. has prioritised tax cuts to the richest in Norway. One has prioritised tax cuts that do not show job growth and that would give municipalities greater tax revenue. That is what this government – and the representative Lødemel – has prioritised. And then they talk about money that doesn't exist. Yeah, maybe they don't exist because they've ended up in their pockets of a few private ones, which are among the richest in this country. So from what I can understand from the government's own tables, there are 18 municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane that come under 2.5 pst. in growth with government proposals – i.e. under wage and price growth. Hornindal gets an increase of 1.2 pst. with the government's proposal – fantastic figures for Hornindal. Vågsøj has 0.6 pst. increase – another amazing number. It's going to be good service development. There are only five municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane that are crawling over the estimated wage and price growth with the Right proposal and from the Right's own tables. It can be said, with all due respect, not to bet on the local economy. Then I hear that the representative Schou has talks with the rapporteurs in Eastfold. That's good, I appreciate it. So do I. And then she thinks I don't know the story. It may be that I have gaps in the history of some municipalities in the inner Eastfold, but the right in Eidsberg went to the choice not to introduce property taxes. Now they are strongly in favour of introducing it, precisely because the Right in Government does not deliver well enough on the municipal economy. It's also part of the story.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1118	SV is the party that prioritises municipal economy the highest. We do that because it's both a base wall in the welfare state, in school, in care, etc., and because it contributes very well to the economy when it's a little turbulent times. It stabilizes, it provides jobs, and it provides good welfare for the money – contrary to what the government does, that is, to distribute billions of tax dollars to people who have more than enough from before, sail if there is no evidence that there is a job creation. On the contrary, it contributes to one of the major problems in today's housing market, namely that there is even more money left to speculate in residential property, and where the tax system is also rigged for speculation. I hear the government says they've improved for everyone. No, that's not right. In rehabilitation, it's a real cut. It removes the diagnostic list for free physiotherapy. You put some money into the municipal sector, but you demand that the municipalities take in a proportion that the municipalities themselves say is not possible, and the money is not earmarked. So in sum, this is 175 million. kr less for rehabilitation than last year. It's a cut, it's no stepping up. It's not improvement for those who need housing. Now that the system has changed on some points, it's been unanimous, but it's 1,200 fewer who get housing support for next year than it was last year. The government believes that getting less is better for those who are disadvantaged. Yes, I understand that they mean it, because they clearly believe it for some of the most disadvantaged, those who are disabled and have little income, such as, among other things. do not have children’s supplements. There has been a lot of discussion here about improving and modernising ICT. Yeah, it's true that for most people this works, but for some old people it doesn't work. I hope several people get the same enquiries that I get, from 95-year-old people who never own a PC and can't data, who are now required by the government to buy this and learn it in order to get an overview of their own pension payments. It's a shame! It will be proposed in the budget debate tomorrow, and I hope that the whole of the Storting can agree that these people must be exempted from this digitisation obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1127	The government of Solberg has carried out a systematic centralisation of society throughout its reign. I showed in my previous article how budgetary policy is centralizing. The same applies to reforms under way. Words such as local democracy reform and near-police reform cannot conceal the consequences of greater distance between people and public services, the centralisation of jobs and places of employment. In the spring of 2016, we experienced that people in the municipality said no to merging with one or more neighbouring municipalities. Local government largely listened to the public opinion and rejected community mergers. In the autumn of 2016, we experience that the regional reform is struggling in reverse. Intention agreements for counties covering entire parts of the country are being voted into the counties. Will it be listened to by the people's opinion on regional reform, or will it be used here too? The majority of the parties in Stortinget said that the municipal reform should be based on local processes and volunteering. It suggests that the public opinion and local decisions should be respected. Now the cats are out of the bag. The role played by the County Council in the reform of the municipalities is impossible to defend. They would contribute to sum up the reform with a review of the municipal decisions. Instead, many of them are pushing forward government ambitions about fewer municipalities and overcoming local decisions. The government has used changes in the income system to push through community mergers. From the use of the income system to make the cost keys as fair as possible, the system was used to punish municipalities that have concluded that they will stand by themselves. I understand that the lack of enthusiasm for the local reform and regional reform concerns the government and the support parties. However, there is no good reason to set aside all the prerequisites for the reform. It would have been wise if the reform enthusiasts had seen a little more of those who have carried out a community reform. In Denmark, 10 years have passed since the reform. The main headlines in the reports now are that the municipalities have not saved one penny. «There was a belief in the future about the municipal reform. In this way it has become a great disappointment." [[...]] That's what the municipal director of the municipality of Gribskov says. State detail management has not become smaller, but larger. Another says that the municipal reform is responsible for centralisation in the last ten years. Unfortunately, the community reform is not a local democracy reform. This is also the reason for the strong local scepticism of community mergers. I hoped the government had so much respect for its objectives of volunteering and local government that we would not meet proposals of coercion, but that hope is now out. The Council of State praised local politicians for their good work. I'd like to share that boast. But the Christmas gifts to those who have done this good work are forcible from 15 to 20 municipalities just over the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1148	I record that the blue-blue representatives here are trying to talk away from the fact that Norwegian municipalities – many of them at least – have great challenges in getting the ends to meet. KS spends quite a lot of work in its budget study. I instead said something about the result when it came to municipalities. In the case of county councils, it is more than 50 pst. they reply that the budgetary process this year is becoming more demanding than it was a year ago. 35 pst. says it's just as demanding. This is well documented by KS. We've added 1 billion. kr more to the county councils in our alternative budget. That would be $36 million. kr in my home state, Oppland. There would have been very dear funds, which could have gone to the necessary road improvements, investments and secondary schools, which are the most important tasks of the county. But what I first took the floor for is that it could be very interesting to know why the Sanner Council is so strongly opposed to regional development funds. Luckily, 200 million came. NOK again in the agreement, but there was an invasion that was quite free, by one took 100 million. kr from the framework of the counties. Still, there are several hundred million dollars up to what was the level when we were red-green in the government corridors. On every occasion, Sanner is cutting heavily into this money, giving the county councils the opportunity to support good regional efforts to stimulate increased value creation, housing and activity. Is it to free money for tax cuts? Or doesn't Truer think this has something to do with it, and District Norway doesn't need this drag aid? In our party, there's a lot of commitment to these means, which we think gives a lot of good results. That's why we're trying as hard as we can in our budgets to fence around the scheme. I hope that is the last time it is proposed to cut regional development funds. Anyway, when we're back in government after next year's big shot, there won't be anything. Then there will also be better times in the municipalities and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1161	I understand that the representative, Mr Hagebakken and his colleagues, are concerned about regional investments and regional development funds. It is no secret if it is the case that the representative Hagebakken will give priority to Randstein or Brostein in front of the town hall in Hammerfest rather than to make railways and roads, to which the regional initiatives are being released. They don't go to tax relief. This is what business has been asking for over a long time. But I took the floor now to pay some attention to the representative Lauvås – who is getting high and dark on the platform. It's okay to argue with politics, emotions and other things, but the reality is it's hard to argue away from, that the growth of the free incomes of the Eastfold municipalities is higher in our reign than it was in the Workers' Party. Those numbers are very clear, they're sure, and it's not very much to discuss. Thus, the growth in the free income of the Eastfold municipalities is higher in our reign than it was in the Workers' Party. There has been more real growth in this ageing period in the country as a whole. For municipalities in Norway as a whole, the estimates show that the average annual, task-corrected real growth in the period 2013–2016 is 2,2 pst, while for the period 2009–2013 it was 1,4 pst. There's a difference in the positive direction in our time of control. The population of Norway has increased during both periods. The task-corrected real growth per capita was on average 1.1 pst. in the years 2013 to 2016 and 0,1 pst. for the period 2009-2013. Among the municipalities of Østfold – among others The representative of Lauvås’ municipality of residence – both Marker and Våler have had the largest income growth per capita during this ageing period. We have seen that Marker has the lowest income level of municipalities in Eastfold. However, the municipality has had the most task-corrected growth per capita of the municipalities in the county, followed by Våler, during this period, respectively 2.1 pst. and 1.9 pst. Then I hear that the representative Lauvås always comes back to the fact that this government has given the most tax relief and prioritised the richest. It might be a good idea for the representative of Lauvås to check out: how much have they contributed so-called richest in terms of total income in the country? I think that for too many people that number will be quite perceptive – and very large – in terms of contributing to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1174	First of all, thank you to the representative Tore Hagebakken, who invited me into this very important debate on Velferds-Norway. The representative Hagebakken said that the Left is the worst of all in Velferds-Norway, personified by me, who has even gone on a torch for the hospital service in Oppland at Lillehammer. Norwegian hospitals have received more than 90 billion. kr during the period from 2002, when the Workers' Party transferred the hospitals to the State. Next year there will be a growth in hospitals of almost 1.5 billion. kr. There is a significant growth, and in the period 2013-2017 the hospital sector has received 8.5 billion. kr in growth. So it's a significant growth. Then we have to set this up against how we're going to organise the municipal sector. To the representative Hagebakken: The Labour Party has largely ruled Uppland at all times. We have 26 municipalities. In that state, we produce a high number of high school dropouts, we produce a high number of youth exclusions, we produce a lot of mental health, which is not to be handled in hospitals, and we have the highest suicide rate among young men throughout Norway. This indicates that we're not using the resources correctly. They shall not enter hospitals, all of them, but shall be prevented. The representative of Hagebakken knows well that the municipality of Gjøvik will receive more money next year than ever and thus perhaps an opportunity to hire a communicator, which we should have had a long time ago. That is the debate we have to take. It is therefore strange that the Labour Party does not take the lead in better structuring Norway to ensure that it is well-being. It is early efforts and prevention that we need to increase resources, and there is no one talking about when we're going to be in charge of the Left Hospital Budget next year. In reality, it is in the crown proposed by the Left in its alternative budget. There is also the fact that we turn one billion more into early interventions and prevention, both in school health services and in health centres — several nurses and health nurses entering early, more midwives. We need to organise services better. Today, this is too fragmented, we're not getting the resources that could prevent the drop-out and the alienation, the mental ill health and the suicides that are not going into the hospital sector. It's where little Left is left to take leadership, and we're involved in that by structuring the municipalities in another way and making sure that we can prevent more and put the effort in the past, so that we don't lead so many into the hospitals. There are too many people in hospitals today who shouldn't be there. This is one of the major challenges for Norway in the future, it is the mental ill health among young people we are going to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1183	The representative Greni made a big point of a report from Denmark that was published in Klasskampen, where the headline was that Danish municipalities have not saved money on the municipal reform. If the representative had read the whole article, she would have seen that Danish municipalities have reduced the appropriations for administration and increased the appropriations for, among other things. child protection. The representative, Mr. Greni, should have cheered on that. We have seen the same thing in Norway with merged municipalities, they have reduced the appropriations for administration and increased the appropriations for services to the population. That too should be welcomed by the representative, Mr Greni. Then I hear that the representative Lauvås is rolling over the growth of Hornindal at 0.5 pst. I have to remind you that the growth under the red-green government of Hornindal was minus 0.1 pst. The representative of Hagebakken underlines the importance of the KS study on municipal economy. I agree. If we go back to 2010, the representative Hagebakken will be able to read that four out of ten advisers planned to cut school, and that three out of ten advisers planned to cut care and care. Then I hear that the representative Hagebakken and the representative Juvik say that progress is in the wrong direction. The representative Juvik represents North Norway. Unemployment is falling, and growth is rising. It's going in the right direction. Looking at the municipal economy, the real growth per capita in Northern Ireland was zero under red-green governance from 2009 to 2013. There has been growth below the centre-right. If we look at Troms, it was minus 0.2 to the municipalities under red-green rule. There has been growth under bourgeois rule. Looking at Finnmark, there was a decrease in real growth per capita in 2009–2013, which has been a growth below the centre–right. I know and understand that the municipalities have a tight frame, but if you first compare red-green government and bourgeois government, we have the fasit. So the Labour Party claims that ioda, they have more money. There is money, we hear from this pulpit. But where is the Workers' Party going to pick up their money? Through increased taxes on jobs and on those to invest in safe, profitable jobs for the future. That's not the way to go. If we look at the relationship between county roads and regional development funds, it's been a plus of 24 million. DKK to Uppland and 100 million. kr to Nordland. There is more money to run regional development and construction of county roads in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1198	It is often the case that when you are in the same room as the Workers' Party and SV, there is a tax debate, regardless of the committee. But it's okay, I think it's nice that we get those debates, because then we get the facts and the truth. When we talk about the facts – there is no doubt that SV obviously needs to clean up its own housing policy. In fact, there is a difference between primary and secondary housing. SV refers to the entire housing market as if it is a problem that people are going to buy housing. This government has just made sure to work out from the differences that exist between people's homes, and what can be a speculative object, that is, secondary residence. It is this government that has increased the tax and the equation value of these dwellings. It is this government that has provided for increased equity requirements for secondary dwellings. That did not happen when they were in government. The SV will, is to introduce a national housing tax also on the primary residence of people. It's people's homes, it's where they live, it's not a speculation object. Trying to introduce a national housing tax to stagnate price growth and dampen the pressure on the housing market is wrong medicine. People have to be allowed to buy their own home without being suspected of being house sharks. We have an example here in Oslo, where SV is involved in collecting property taxes. We were promised that two out of ten would pay it, now it is estimated that five out of ten have to pay it. We were promised that no one living in the OBOS apartment would pay it, now many of those living in the OBOS apartment have to pay it. These aren't house sharks, they're ordinary people living in their own homes. And while we've had this property tax, prices have continued to increase. SV indicates that they have a lot of economists with them, but they have not yet told how high the national housing tax in Norway must be in order for prices to fall. We believe that we need to increase the offer. That's why we're making it easier to build more dwellings. We're making it possible for one to build more homes outside the city centres, along with the collective effort. See what we're doing in Ski, where we're going to make up for 10,000 new homes along with the Folloban bet. It's helping to dampen the price increase. SV has today made some demands on the Workers' Party to be part of the government. Is national property tax one of these requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1211	It is obvious that the working party is heavy on the chest that we are now proving that there has been a real growth in the free income of municipalities that is greater than in the previous ageing period. I documented it, among other things. with an example from Trøndelag. Only Turkish municipalities had between 150 million. NOK 160 and SEK 160 million. kr i minus in the previous magnification period, i.e. a growth that was negative, while in this period you have had a positive growth. And we're strengthening the local economy. Then we should not paint – we agree – because the municipalities still have to prioritise within their frameworks, but they had to do so before, as the Council of State has documented. I don't think the red-greens have to be completely historyless and completely forget the protests they also met from their own people when they crashed themselves. It's claimed that the numbers are wrong, but no one can document or tell anyone here what is wrong in these calculations. I think they're uncomfortable, and I understand that you might want to protest, but you can't prove that this is wrong. So the Workers' Party boasts that when you're in opposition, you've added a few billion extras to the municipal complex. I'm going to say 2 billion. kr to the municipalities and 1 billion. kr for the counties. This is financed not only through increased taxes on Norwegian jobs but also through cuts in the local government’s own areas in the budget — between 800 million. SEK and 900 million. I will get you straight out of there. And then you have some additions that are also given quite detailed leads as to how the municipalities are going to spend that exact money. There will also be no more room for action and the possibility for municipalities to prioritize in this way. The central party is raging over the municipal reform in Denmark. I thought it had gone up for the Center Party, because they're the first ones to stress that you can't compare Norway and Denmark. Geography is different, and there are so many different assumptions. However, when the representative of the Central Party, Mr. Greni, runs over the municipalities that have merged in Denmark, and that get to spend more money on services and less on administration, I believe that she also raids all the Norwegian municipalities that are now voluntarily joining. I expected the Centre Party to pay tribute to Norwegian municipalities that go together to provide better services for their inhabitants and for their business. I'm still waiting to hear that the Central Party from this pulpit says that it's good that municipalities want to strengthen their services, and that it can also be done through community mergers, and that the Central Party from this pulpit can express positive words that community mergers actually contribute to better services and better communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1222	The next speaker is the representative Helge N. – I'm sorry, Helge André Njåstad, then André N. Skjelstad from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1227	It is important to keep the differences between the signatures and the left! I want to start by making some comments to the representative Andersen in SV, who is talking about the diagnostic list. There's a need for clarification. We know that many people need physical therapy, but they still have to fall out of the so-called diagnostic list, which provides free physical therapy from the very beginning. This is unfair, random and not in line with the rest of the health service. Physiotherapists are out in the municipalities where common people with common income cages. Today, an asset pays at almost everything in the health service, except for emergency and necessary health care. That's the main rule. The fact that physiotherapy has been free of charge for approx. One hundred diagnostics, is an old system of need for renewal. Physiotherapy in people with chronic pain conditions for unknown reasons, such as CFS/ME, various types of sports injury, some cancer diagnosis, some psychiatric disorders and back pain, is not covered by the exemption scheme. Over the years, we've had complaints from several patient and user organisations about this misalignment and are trying to create a fairer system. The next step for us is to try to merge the originals 1 and 2, so that we can get only one real estate card to stick to, and at the same time make sure that this roof is seen lower than the roof 1 and take 2 more together. Then we had – at least if we had read news headlines before the election campaign in 2013 – seen for us a completely different debate than we have had today, based on all the horror propaganda about how bad it would go with Norwegian municipalities with a government change in 2013. Now the fasitite is ready, and we see that in all the states one refers to good numbers – and quite different numbers than the scare pictures one pointed to. That's probably why the red-greens have gone on autopilot today and repeated things that aren't going to be more accurate by being repeated. I notice that the Council of State referred to the 2010 investigation during the red-green period. I myself was a spokesperson at that time thinking about how it was at the KS meeting; there was a completely different description of reality in Kommune-Noreg under the red-green than what an attempt to create the impression of today. I would also like to remind you a little bit about the red-greens' last greeting to the Municipality of Norway when they presented their budget, with regard to resource-requiring services. Then one tried to reduce the compensation from 80 pst. up to 77.5 pst. It would mean millions more to the municipalities and an unlikely large division of disparities to municipalities, because the cost of the roof varies greatly and would have been a major challenge for Norwegian municipalities. So one might be glad that this bulk of the population reversed, among other things. the last greeting from the red-green government to delay the level of compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1242	That's pretty predictable. And it's predictable that the representative Lauvås isn't going to call for taxes. But there is something surprising about the post of the representative, Lauvås, because I thought to the extent that it was a mantra within the Workers' Party that the basis for creating something first had to be formed. And for a man who has been in business for many years, I thought this was a matter of course, and that the representative realized that if you stimulate business, you are also involved and contribute to creating good services around the country. Of course, the time of surprises is not over. I have to say that it was special, but I notice that creating new jobs is not so careful, or making the business of the districts more profitable. The centre party is predictable. The biggest conservative party wants no change, but only to continue what is and has been. About that medicine, we know that if you bring it back from 40 to 50 years ago in time without doing any great work, you centralize Norway even more. That's what the Center Party obviously wants. So whatever happens, that's the answer at any time. When the representative of Mr. Greni is standing on this platform, I would like to point out that this is just centralization without any clear answers to what are the alternatives to what we are now putting up with more force around growth centres and regional centres across the country. Then she points out to me in the line change that no, they don't want it like that because it will create an inequality. An inequality -- I'm just asking: isn't it just through regional centres that we have the opportunity to create a larger growth, and not more of the medicine that the Center Party has prescribed for so many years, and that doesn't work? There must be services across the country that matter, and not the number of town halls. There, I understand that the Left and the Center are deeply in disagreement. My priority is to provide good services, qualitative services, to the citizens – regardless of the municipality. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the centre party is failing. I had expected the Center Party to show more now what their district policy is. Is there more of the existing thing that we see not working, or could it be something else? No, they don't want to present anything else to Parliament, they just want more of what doesn't work. That's informative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1255	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1260	I would like to make it clear that I have not said that the Left is a welfare hosted here on the Stortinget. I said that the party is worst in terms of wanting to cut the hospital economy. There's a narrowing of the criticism in relation to Kjenseth's statement. We live in the same town, so it's okay that we're not strangers. Kjeseth says he's turning a billion. ‘Vrir’ means a billion — he takes a billion from the hospitals. The left and the government, together with the Christian People's Party, are 1.5 billion. kr below what would have been the result of the Workers' Party. That's 70 million. kr in the difference for the Hospital Inland. It would have been less to go on demonstration trains for in Lillehammer and other places where it is also demonstrated. Then I think it's funny that Kjeseth chooses to blame the Hospital Inland. There is always something they can be criticized for, but he must also take responsibility for having been involved in doing such a big cut. We also have a public health package, but we don't take the money from the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1270	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1275	Yes, ‘high and dark’ – at least this government has not made the municipalities very tall and dark during the period they have ruled, as far as the municipal economy is concerned, as the representative of Schou was in. I recommend that you go to the government's own website, read the tables that are there, and look this up against wage and price increases, and you find that the transfers are below for all states. Then there is actually a cut budget before the municipalities even get started: City of shaving: 1,7 pst. increase Advice: 1,4 pst. increase Spydeberg, as the representative Schou might be particularly familiar with: 2.2 pst. increase You can keep going. I was in Sogn and Fjordane. There are examples of that quite country. So it's a cut budget for the municipalities before they even get started, and it doesn't make sense to talk away from. With regard to the last post to the left, it was so unclear that I do not find an opportunity to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1294	I have also been the rapporteur. I have been rapporteur both under a civil government and under Labour Party governments. I will promise you, who may have been rapporteurs in the period when today's Prime Minister was Minister of the City Council, that at least there was no simple matter. Although today's municipal councillor is trying to talk away from the bet in the north – yes, it's going well in the north. I agree with him. Luckily, it's low unemployment, and it's going well. But at the same time it is demanding for the municipalities in the north. They shall remain in those days and shall draw up the budget for 2017. Among other things, my municipality of residence is currently discussing the budget for 2017. They have received a little nice greeting from the finance minister, who came yesterday, and there is property tax on power plants. The neighboring municipality of Hemnes, Rana, has received the same message. With our budget, these two municipalities would have 32 million. kr more next year. Rana wanted 20 million. kr more – 10 mill. SEK more in property taxes from power plants and SEK 10 million. kr more in our budget. My own municipality, Hemnes, wanted $12 million. NOK, and I know that I would have done well. Now they have to resort to the reserves because this is also cut that came in the last little. Once upon a time, the county councils, which are also to provide good services, have come into a difficult situation after this government took over. Next year they will have approx. One hundred million. kr less in the frame being transferred, because of the new keys, which you have promised to look at, but on which you have not found a solution. If you can't get anything done with them before 2020, it's 284 million. kr only for Nordland County alone – 284 million. kr, which they would prefer to use for measures in higher education, roads, etc. If you like it or not, it's just to sum up the budgets and see who gave the most to the municipalities, because that's really what the municipalities at the end are left with, and that they can use, which is the important thing. And I notice that the Council of State will only talk about the period from 2009 and not the period from 2006, because if you talk about the period from 2006, the total growth is 2.5 pst. under the red-green and 1.9 pst. during this period. Unfortunately, you don't get away with that, even if you wanted a different number. About 12 billion. if the budget of the Workers' Party had been implemented, the municipalities would have had during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1307	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1312	I can assure the Council that I have read the whole article about Denmark, and I have read several articles. One who I think was the programme manager of the National Institute of Analysis and Research of Municipalities and Regions could confirm that it was beyond 1 pst. savings on administrative costs after 10 years. When we know that three small municipalities with small municipal supplements that merge into one, will lose two disaggregations and three small municipal grants, I really have to wonder where to save the rest. So to the Left, who said that we should continue with a district policy that doesn't work: if you look at the analyses of the population growth in the municipalities in 2005, there were 199 municipalities that had grown in general within the district policy scope. In 2010, it was over 300. In 2013 it was 309. Now we're down to 274 again. Is it the red-green or blue-blue district policy that works?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1319	In many ways, we seem to be participating in two different debates in this room. I record that the government parties want to talk about technicalities, and not least about structure. Structural changes must solve any problem in this world. I also see that they do brave, but not particularly credible, attempts to paint their own local economy. They put on the table technical calculations that we have refused. On the other hand, they have not been able to answer the question of whether they believe that the dramatically lower employment growth we are now seeing in the municipalities, and the very strong increase in property taxes, may have something to do with local politicians not having enough money to solve the problems they want to solve. It's fun for us politicians to run with pingpong about before and now, us and them. We all participate in that exercise at regular intervals. But first of all, this is a choice of values about what we are doing now to equip ourselves for the future and to create equal opportunities for everyone in this country. Let's do it through 20 billion. Do we pay taxes to those who already have the most, or do we do so through a commitment to common well-being, in kindergarten, in school, in health and care? With all the billions of oil crowns that are now being poured out, and all the unemployed who have nothing to do, one should expect a much stronger bet on the municipalities and the tasks for which the municipalities are responsible, not least in the light of previous promises that it should not be on the money. It's also interesting to note that anything that doesn't succeed for this government, whether it's county mergers or the governmentization of the care of the elderly, is someone other than the government's faults. In particular, it is often the fault of the Workers' Party or the opposition, or it is the local politicians – if there was nothing the Red-Green government did. Then I just want to say, the majority of the population is warmly welcome to listen to the Workers' Party, to the opposition and to the local politicians of the country. I think the budget for next year had looked much better then. In the case of North Norway, there is low leave – yes. But that's despite, not because, government policy. This government has cut hundreds of millions of dollars for the county councils. They've cut $70 million. kr for Sametinget and Sami purposes. They operate a large-scale centralisation of state jobs. At the same time: nothing should be touched at the Prime Minister's office. The oil billions go to the richest people in the country. Unfortunately, they do not live in North Norway. Therefore, from a Northern Norwegian perspective, they want to bet on the young people instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1332	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1337	First, the government's tax policy creates bad differences, not jobs. It contributes to the transfer of resources from the districts to the centre and a harmful residential speculation. The representative, Kapur, is asked to get involved in what he's asking for. The overall distribution effect of SV's tax arrangements is that everyone who earns less than NOK 600 000 will receive several thousand in tax bills in total, in relation to the government's arrangements. It's in the financial position, and I understand that Kapur hasn't got into it. The small changes proposed by the government do not at all help to dampen this speculation – on the contrary. It's just asking the Ministry of Finance, because it's the ones that have calculated these tables. With regard to the diagnostics list, it's like shifting the costs to patients and withdrawing money to the state. So instead of extending the scheme, as SV suggests, there will be worse rehabilitation for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1344	I have to continue the dialogue with the representative Tore Hagebaken from the Workers' Party, who is constantly talking about cuts in the hospital economy, and I have to repeat that there will be no cuts in the hospital economy. I explained in the previous article that over the last 15 years there has been a growth of over 90 billion. in hospitals. It's also continuing in 2017, it's growing at almost 1.5 billion. kr. The cut that Hagebakken is trying to talk about is the government's original proposal for what the hospital economy should be. It's something other than what the Storting decides it should be, so the Storting decides the Left's alternative hospital budget. That growth is 1.5 billion. kr. We don't turn 1 billion. EUR 400 million for early response and prevention. kr from the hospitals, which was proposed for growth of SEK 1.8 billion. I'm going to get almost 1.5 billion kroner. kr. And then we're going to add up to 600 million. for early intervention and prevention, mainly in the community health service. That's the spaghetti we're about to get in the health sector, based on the fact that it's two-part. The community health sector needs to be strengthened, there needs to be more to do the job of creating health and not repairing so much. It is in sum of great value for individuals and also socio-economic. So to the growth that comes to the Hospital Inland, and not the cut that the representative Hagebakken is trying to talk about: it's about a distribution of income that regional health companies do. It goes a little out on the Inland Hospital at the expense of Oslo because the population growth in Oslo is great. That income model is there from the previous government. The red-green government created the income model in Health South-East – it was the rest of those who collided Health South-East, a mastodon, and created Europe's largest hospital of 47 different postal addresses in Oslo – which is a significant elephant in space, and we have to do something about it. The Labour Party must also take responsibility for this. So to tax cuts, we're talking mainly about property taxes. It needs many small businesses in the districts to use for investment. The Workers' Party has contributed to a financial tax facility that makes savings banks, which is too much of the funding for value creation in rural areas, face major challenges now because they are charged on the employer's fee. The advantage is given to the financial environment around Aker Brygge, and it is of course a significant centralisation, which will be a challenge for the district industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1353	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1358	There is also in these rituals a good deal of clarity that emerges. The clarity of the representative from Østfold Arbeiderparti is that he is quite clear that it does not matter with commercial activities, which the representative of Kjeseth was now also clear: the Labour Party obviously does not have that attitude to the importance of industrial activities. Then there is also clarity in what the Central Party is clarifying in the pulpit here, that with the Central Party – if they come back to government – the regional centre grant will be removed. It's okay to notice on a day like this, and there's a clarity I'm taking with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1366	Helge André Njåstad has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1371	It may well be the opposition's dream that, at the bottom of a debate, representatives from the government party will admit that one has made a mistake. So I'm going to do that now. If a listener listens well, I can direct the attention towards Chapter 540 where the Right and the Advance parts have unfortunately written a wrong sentence in the setting. We have written that the government has increased the apprenticeship by $100,000, and that the equation has increased it by $2,500, so one gets to $12,500. Unfortunately, here we have a little bit of a jump, because the government has done even more than what we wrote. It was actually $17,500 apprentice's offer was on, and then it increased by $2,500. So the right sum is not just going to be $12,500, but $20,000 that this government and the majority of the population have increased their apprenticeship by. I thought it had to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1376	Then Stortinget noticed. The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1383	To the representative, Mr. Greni, who reads Danish reports with interest, I think it would have been okay for the National Assembly to clarify whether everything is bad and difficult, or whether it would actually be an advantage that if you streamline the administration, it goes more to the offer of services to the residents, which is the result, among other things. the report from Denmark. To Lauvås, who has been involved on several occasions in property taxes, and especially in some municipalities in Østfold, it is good to remember that in 2012 Halden was municipality after many years with the Labour Party government of minus 289 million. NOK, and that today we have a situation where the municipality now sets of 40 million. kr to fund for just having a buffer for that type of condition. So finally, the Workers' Party has actively proposed an airline seat fee in its budget to give that type of fee to the municipalities. It's called being a double moralist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1392	Mudasar Kapur has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1397	I just have to note that SV has not been able to respond well enough to what effect such a national property tax would have on the housing prices. Will they go down? How high does that tax have to be in order for prices to go down? The main argument of SV when they brought this up was that they wanted to dampen the price pressure. So they know very well what to collect from taxes, but they can't answer well enough for the effect of them. I see that a lot of the Labour Party representatives look down on the table when we talk about national property taxes. It is certainly because they do not really want to be part of that debate, but I would like to know what the Workers' Party's representatives think about SV's proposal to introduce a national property tax also on primary dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1402	I hear that the representative Mudasar Kapur from the Right is talking about the aftermath of housing policy. Then it is well worth recalling that the left-hand side of Oslo took over after 18 years of right-wing rule in Oslo. It's the city where housing prices have increased most, and that's where you've been responsible for 18 years. Now there's someone else who's taken over, and now the construction activity is increasing. That's very good. I also hear that people on the right are talking about good social arrangements. There is talk of the introduction of a more accurate start-up loan scheme. Well, what you've done is to make sure that young people don't get to start loans. You have to be a right-wing politician to think it's accurate. In the Workers' Party, we call it restricting arrangements. I also hear you say that you have received a more accurate housing support. We are now receiving feedback that young people are almost excluded from the scheme. So young people who are finally going to be allowed to move for themselves, don't get housing support and the help they need. That's what you'd like to call very accurate, but then you're a right-wing politician. In the Workers' Party, we call it a worse order. I would also like to comment briefly on the debate on health. The representative, Mr. Hagebakken, has used up his speaking time, but it is to be greeted. I just want to say that the increase that is now in hospitals, is not even close to what is the demographic increase. It was the government parties, which were also supported by the Left, who said you had to cancel 12 billion. DKK for hospitals over four years. So that's 3 billion. kr away – his own promise. So I would say that we in the Workers' Party are very concerned with public health, preventive activity, but it's not that you get immediate effect by reducing the number of patients in the hospitals because you increase prevention activity in the municipalities one year. There will be no fewer patients because of one year of prevention – in the long term, yes, but you cannot immediately bring down the hospital budget. The representative, Kjeseth, was talking about a spaga. Yes, in that case it is self-elected. In the Workers' Party, we can afford both. We can afford a strong strengthening of public health, health in Kommune-Norway, school health, health stations – for all that we have money – and we also have a strong strengthening of the hospital economy. The working party is 1.5 billion. kr over the budgetary agreement. So the painful spagat that the representative from the Left talked about is completely self-chosen, and he doesn't want to stand in it any longer, he's warmly welcome to our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1415	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1420	I didn't think I would draw any more, but when the hospitals and the reality around them were discussed, I had to. Because it actually amounted to 427 million. kr less for the hospitals with the agreement. And it's true that how much money is spent on hospitals is also important for municipalities. Health South-East gets $229 million. kr less, Health West gets 81 million. kr less, Health Mid-Norway gets 61 million. kr less, Health Nord gets 55 million. kr less. This means something. If, on the other hand, the Workers' Party's proposals had gone, Health South-East had received 767 million. NOK more, Health West had received SEK 271 million. kr more, Health Mid-Norway had received 204 million. NOK more and Health Nord had received SEK 184 million. kr more. This would be important for your offers. It doesn't make sense to talk away from it. I understand that it is unpleasant, but this is the case when you have been involved in a settlement and negotiated away something that was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1425	Let me start by thanking you for a good debate, which has largely been about who has granted the most, now in the last round to the health sector. I think it is important that we all take on board that both state and local authorities will face some rather demanding challenges in the future. When oil revenue goes down and the welfare challenges go up, when we meet the climate and environmental challenges, it will require us to work differently. This means that both countries and municipalities need to think more about how to get more out of resources. The representative Helga Pedersen has challenged me on the issue of lower growth in municipal employment — lower growth in employment. I think it is primarily an expression that the municipalities have taken the realities into account, namely that they also face some demanding challenges in the years to come. Then we can not just continue to increase budgets, we need to think more about how we can facilitate more value creation – yes, it's about how we can create more values, how we can create development in both city and country. That's one of the reasons why the government has had a strong commitment to travel in the north. Under red-green rule North Norway received 14 pst. of the national road appropriations — i.e. in 2013 — while this year North Norway receives 21,9 p.m. of national road investments. To provide a basis for growth, development and jobs, we need to invest in infrastructure. So let's do that. We must invest in knowledge and research. So let's do that. And we have to make sure that both state and local authorities operate more efficiently, so that we can free resources for important welfare priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1438	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1444	I fully agree with the municipal minister that the municipalities have taken the realities inward, and the reality is that the municipalities do not get the money they need from the government to hire the people needed in school and in the care of the elderly. And it's a big paradox that the government's representative is standing here and saying that the municipalities should not spend more money, while the government itself has increased the oil money usage by 100 billion. kr. So you have 20 billion to the east. kr in tax cuts, which have no evidence of an impact on employment and which weaken the basis for well-being in the coming years. That is the reality. With regard to the national transport plan, the government is guided by a transport plan from the red-green government, which, of course, prioritised the districts, but this is not done on the basis of the subject base on which the next national transport plan is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1451	We're still not done with part 1. The Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, has once again signed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1456	When the representative, Helga Pedersen, starts his post by saying that the municipalities do not get the money they need, it is an interesting opening repeat. I don't think any municipalities have ever experienced that they get the money they need, or the money they want, but what we can see when we look at the red-green years from 2009 to 2013 compared to the four-year period we are now in, is that the municipalities have had a stronger real growth in their revenues below the centre–righter than they had under red-green rule. So we can continue the discussion about how much money there will be in the future, but I am happy that the municipalities have taken the reality inwards. It also means that we now see a sharp fall in the level of debt in the municipalities, and the debt ratio is actually halved. The growth of local government debt is halved from 2010. I believe that local politicians from several parties deserve credit for ensuring that they have good financial management locally. So it's true that something more oil money is being used now. We have been clear that more of the oil money within the rule of action is to be invested for the future. And that's what we're doing -- in knowledge, in research, and it's especially important in the north, where by 2025 we're going to invest 625 billion. kr., according to the cyclical report to the Saving Bank. If we are to have ring-effects locally and regionally, we need to provide a better bridge between knowledge environments and industrial development in North Norway. Then we have to continue to invest in infrastructure, so that goods can get faster, and then we also have to make sure that investing in Norwegian jobs is more profitable. There is an important reason why the government has reduced taxes both for workers and for those who invest in Norwegian, profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1463	Before we move on to Part 2, the President will note that, according to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, one must stick strictly to the matter under discussion. State hospital funding is strictly not up to debate, but the president has chosen to be a little rusty during this pre-Christmas period. And then we go to part two. The President will show that this is the same discussion as under Part 1. The first speaker is Helge André Njåstad, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1475	It's nice that the president is out in pre-Christmas. After all, this committee has a large responsibility that embraces everything in a municipality. We have been able to talk about mass in the first part of the debate. In the second part, we have the field that has created the most debate and involvement in the population in recent years, i.e. the field of immigration and integration. In my post, I want to focus most on integration. Integration has been one of the major areas of activity of this government over the entire four-year period. We understand very much: those who are going to be suspended, we need to integrate. They're going to be busted, they're going to get a job, and they're going to have a school as soon as possible – that's the goal. Integration is now taking shape, and I want to say that there is a great success story we are witnessing in Norway, when we see what the Norwegian municipalities and the state have done to integrate in the wake of the great influx of asylum last year. By the end of November, the municipalities have agreed to take a bus stop over 16 000 refugees. By the end of November, there were bussets across 13 000 people. That would be 41 pst. more than at the same time last year. Never before has a government accommodated so many refugees in such a short time. 16,000 refugees are about 16,000 refugees. As many refugees as the previous government were able to busie in the first four years as they were in government, from 2005 to 2009. A large part of the era should be given to municipalities, which have responded to the expectations for increased constancy. There's a lot of respect for that. Good cooperation between the state and the municipality has been important to achieve these results. Three hundred and seventy-six of the people in attendance at the end of November were single minors. This is a reduction of 145 people from the same time last year. Single minors and families with children have been a priority group in the construction work. The government has given priority to the construction and integration work in the last few years. We have also facilitated it financially, by increasing the integration rate by 300 million. kr in the last few years. There has not been a corresponding good coverage of the municipality’s average expenditure on construction and integration since 2009. In order to stimulate an increase in settlement, we have also given extra incentives to the municipalities that receive more than they have been encouraged by IMDI, and we have an extra supplement to municipalities like the bus of single minors. Furthermore, we have encouraged the construction of those with major health challenges. The house bank has also received an extra backbone for rentals. In the 2017 state budget, we propose additional financial measures to ensure settlement in the municipalities. We suggest that the extra charge of NOK 100000 be passed on to the municipalities when they set up a single minor. We also suggest that the extra charge of NOK 50000 be passed on to municipalities like the bus several. How many asylum seekers are coming to Norway, and how many are going to be busied, is not an easy science to predict. That shows the debates we've had. Last year, we had to come up with additional numbers and increase the budget based on expectations, this year we have been opposed. Once the government party and the support party have negotiated the budget, reduced resources and reduced the need for budget resources on these items have led to the release of funds that can be used for other actions. If a person goes into individual posts, we have Chapter 490, heading 60, which covers health, child protection, interpreting and administration costs in connection with reception in the municipality. In addition, the scheme includes a special contribution to care provision, child protection allowances, the provision of childcare space for asylum seekers aged 4 to 5 years, and for the core period for children aged 2 to 3 years of age with approved child support. This incentive scheme shall be managed by the UDI and shall be automatically paid quarterly per reception point when there is a contract with the operator of the municipality in question. We have also seen money in 2017 to maintain and collect registration data and for research and evaluation in the integration field. These are important items. Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception, I would like to stress that there is an offer for asylum seekers and not for those who have been given a restorative service. Asylum seekers who are granted a residence permit have both the right and the duty to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge under the Introduction Act. They should start training either at a reception or in a municipality. Thus, when fewer asylum seekers arrive in Norway, fewer people are required to receive Norwegian training in asylum recipients. The government's proposal for funds for processing capacity in UDI and UNE in 2017 will also help us to get, hopefully, even shorter waiting time in Norwegian reception before the matter is dealt with. This is important, as asylum seekers will then be able to receive faster responses to their application, and there will also be a smaller need for Norwegian training during that period. We still have money in the budget line for voluntary organisations working on integration work. They have an important role, with the private voluntary initiative, and it is good that it is 85 million. to immigration organisations and other voluntary activities. We know that this room through a broad settlement said that one would receive up to 8 000 quota refugees from Syria in the period 2015-2017. Here the government delivers in line with the expectations of the Storting, and it is in the budget that one should fulfill that unity. In 2017, the quota will be 3 120 seats, with 3,000 seats earmarked for Syrian refugees. We are in the final phase planning the distribution of places by country in the region. When we look at the statistics, Norway is absolute among the countries that accept the most quota refugees, both per capita and in absolute terms. Now, when we have been given control of the austerity and the way in which funds have also been released in the budget that could be re-prioritized, it is very pleasant for us in the Progress Party that the government strengthens the effort in the neighbourhood beyond. The party of progress is constantly criticizing us for helping in the neighbourhood, and it's nice for me to say that help in the neighbourhood is not a good idea to help at least, it's the second best way Norway can help people in need. After we have accepted them, and they we have the capacity to accept and integrate into the Norwegian community, it is important to help more in the neighbourhood. The revised 2016 national budget provided a forecast of 25 000 asylum seekers in 2016. In the new aging, the forecast has been adjusted down to 3550. This will reduce the costs of immigration and integration under the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This allows you to re-prioritize. Norway has thus been able to strengthen humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries by 500 million. kr, something we are very pleased about – that we will then show seriously that when we can prioritize, we strengthen our efforts in the neighbourhood. The time ahead will be spent on new challenges and unexpected situations, certainly, but fortunately we have a government that stands together, with a thorough strategy for dealing with both those who are going to be here and those who are not going to be here. Integration is now taking shape. I said in the introduction that there is a success story we are witnessing in Norway, through the cooperation between the state and the municipalities in order to congratulate a good integration into the cold water of the great asylum strike we saw to Norway last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1518	There have been cases in which the municipalities that made extraordinary efforts when the arrivals in Norway became large, as the representative Njåstad himself was involved in his post, as there was an urgent need for asylum reception and required, now struggles to get the country to cover the bill that came. We also have in the harvest examples that municipalities that have rigged up for the settlement of refugees, who are not – or greatly delayed – given the number of whom it was agreed, now have to disembark and thus lose financially. The municipality of Sør-Varanger is in legal proceedings against the UDI because of a lack of compensation for its additional costs as the distress was at its highest. What would the representative Njåstad say about this? Is it reasonable that Kommune-Norge should be left with unpaid bills for the government's lack of overview and management of the settlement of refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1523	There is a lot of work that could have been done in the Lauvås line. To blame the government for the lack of clarity when there is so much inconspicuousness is wrong. I think the government has been quick on the road both to secure enough places when needed, and to follow quickly to reduce the number of reception places when the need is no longer great. No one wants us to spend our taxpayers' money on operating non-needed reception facilities. We want to spend the money on taxpayers to achieve a successful integration. Then, of course, a flexible solution must be found to the extent that individual municipalities have taken on a large responsibility that entails costs. I have great confidence that the government in the further dialogue and towards the revision will look at the municipalities that may have come in such a situation as Lauvås describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1528	It seems that the proposal that benefits for a family in reception will be a maximum of NOK 10 000 regardless of how many kids they have will be given a majority here today. For example, if the representative considers that this would be sufficient for: a family of five teenagers and two adults, living at NOK 10,000 a month? And does the representative believe it is natural for a young person with a large sibling's flock to have a reduced opportunity to participate in leisure activities while living in reception, to have a reduced opportunity to participate in what is going on in the community, and also to have a reduced opportunity to have an equally nutritious diet for the kids who are part of a smaller sibling's flock?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1539	Now describe the representative Greni a situation in reception for which I said in my post that we would like to reduce the processing time, so that the situation in the reception will be as short as possible, and that the fastest possible way to get into a municipality and start the work of becoming fully integrated Norwegians – if one gets a yes to the application, choose to mark. Then it's about getting into work and living off your own income, as the rest of the people in Norway do. When it relates to the situation of reception, I refer to the proposition and to the treatment of roofs, and that it is treated in a sensible way. Let's say a thank you because we think it's right from the point of view of funding, so that we focus more on integration work, like debt where one should be for the rest of your life, than on the reception situation, where we want one to be as short as possible. People won't be sitting in reception for as long as they were normal under the red-green government. We all think that we took over a long list of people who had not been told the story, when we joined in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1546	I understand that Njåstad won't answer what it's like to feed an entire family for a fifty-minute meal a day, because I don't think any of us else had done that in a reasonable way. People are in reception for a long time. There, according to the Progress Party, the government and the majority, they will receive less Norwegian training than before. And if they get to stay, have been here for years, are at work and don't make a cat angry, they should also have to live with insecurity now for years. They shall not be able to dry to rot, as they may be at risk of being revoked by their residence permit. This means that children born and raised here may be at risk of being thrown out after all their childhood and youth have been in Norway, and Norway is their country. I thought inherited sin had been abolished. Does the Progress Party really believe that this kind of insecurity contributes to good integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1554	When it comes to Norwegian training, I was in my main post saying that we want to strengthen Norwegian training and social training for those who are going to be, that we spend the most money on those who are going to be, and are going to be integrated, in Norway. This is because we have to have a shorter period of time and a shorter time of receipt before the matter is resolved. As a result, smaller provision is needed for Norwegian training in reception to all, both those to be and those not to be. We'll focus the money more on those who're going to stay in the country. It's clearly important, but the most important thing we do, is not to do like the previous government, to lend us back and think it's entirely okay that people are on reception for a long time. We are busy getting to the settlement and integration faster, and so our first minister Solvency Horne made more for integration than her predecessor, and Sylvi Listhaug has followed up afterwards. We focus on integrating and busing those who will be able to move quickly and not live long on reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1564	The Labour Party underlines the importance of a strict, fair and humane asylum and immigration policy. This means that we're going to give those who need it protection, and return as soon as possible those who don't need protection. It also means keeping a check at borders and on asylum arrivals in Norway. We must ensure that Norway respects international law and ensures the legal certainty of asylum seekers. These are general and important principles. The Labour Party represents a good integration policy, which presupposes that those who are allowed to stay and remain have to start their lives and become contributors to the Norwegian society. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that you have an overview and control of arrivals. Last fall, it turned out that we had a government that had no control. It was the voluntary effort that provided food and necessary clothing, partly also for information to those entering Norway. Yes, there were a large number, but this should have been foreseen when you saw how this developed downwards in Europe and the refugees moved. The government failed in this test, but was rescued by volunteers and, not least, by the municipalities, who huddled around and created reception at great speed – but also incurred considerable expenses. Therefore, there is reason to praise the volunteers and the municipalities, who set up. There's little reason to praise the government. Even in a year of record arrivals in Norway, the government is unable to clean up. Municipalities are still struggling to agree with the government on the reimbursement of expenses for the establishment and operation of reception. We have also noticed that the municipalities, at the government's strong call, are rigging up to accept and settle a large number of asylum seekers. When some of these municipalities get into bad economic conditions because they don't get the number they were invited to accept, and the government shows little willingness to be involved in cleaning up, it's a very bad signal. Municipalities must be able to rely on the state to meet their obligations and to act in an orderly manner – even when the bill is due. Last year, the Labour Party proposed to increase the allocations to South Varanger and Council municipalities in order to be able to respond effectively to the challenges posed by the exceptional arrivals of asylum. Then we remember that the government parties then claimed that there was no need for additional funding for these municipalities. We now have to register that the municipality of South Varanger is going to bring legal proceedings against the state, because they believe that they have not been compensated for their expenses. You have to expect this government to clean up. While the Labour Party was in government, we led a strict, fair and humane immigration policy. While the discussion was also going on in our time of government, I believe that the debate and tone were marked by respect and tidyness. As a government party, we were committed to contributing to the best possible climate of debate in the debate on immigration, because we believe that a debate climate as good as possible and a good tone is absolutely crucial to making the best decisions. Immigration policy is a policy area characterised by the constant need to make very difficult balances between different and partly conflicting considerations. It also means that you may never get to the point where everyone is completely satisfied, you have to try to find compromises that the broad majority can stand behind. I record that the Council of State of the Party of Advancement is very much in control, is its own contributions to social media, where it seems that the purpose is to set people up against each other and create a vi-and-de. Governments act anything but accumulating and are more concerned with creating disunity and fear than with contributing to understanding and good solutions. It's perhaps most strange that the government-leading party, right, allows this to continue. Immigration policy is probably the area where we, as politicians, face the most difficult balances and dilemmas. Therefore, it was important for the Workers' Party to contribute to a broad settlement last autumn – in order to contribute to the best possible control, predictability and tranquillity in this area. Therefore, there is a heavy obligation on the government to follow up this consensus responsibly. I am concerned about all the issues that are now raised about the government's handling and attitude to legal certainty, whether it is being addressed as it should. I expect the Council of State to respond to the criticism that has been raised about age testing, prisoning at Trandum and safeguarding the general legal certainty of asylum seekers. We need to be safe and secure to ensure that each one is treated in the way our legal principles apply. It's the government and the Council of State's responsibility. It is important for the individuals affected by our asylum policy, but also for Norway as a society. Lowering confidence in the state's handling in one area may also weaken confidence in other areas. This is why we are concerned when there are repeated doubts as to whether the legal security of asylum seekers in Norway is being ensured. As I said, there is doubt as to whether legal certainty is ensured in one area, doubt could spread to other areas of society as well. We must take that very seriously. In its extension: there are repeated concerns about whether return to Afghanistan is safe. The Council of State must ensure that no one is returned to unsafe areas and that the return practice is in accordance with the Storting decision. We want to build integration policy on the principle «Do your duty and demand your right». Manifestation is a resource for value creation and development. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands. We believe it is essential to facilitate work and activity. Those coming to Norway are expected to contribute to the Norwegian community. The key to good integration is to learn Norwegian and get to work. We believe it is important that this work starts already on arrival in Norway. The vast majority of immigrants, or descendants of immigrants, are doing quite well in Norwegian society, but there are still challenges in day-to-day integration and job participation. Education and competence for all form an important part of the Norwegian model. It contributes to ensuring the productivity of enterprises and of the public sector. The Labour Party is concerned that pressure on the labour market should not be offset by light-weight grips, such as low wages, deregulation of Norwegian working life. It will help to create greater differences between people and, not least, to give us an a, b and – perhaps also – c team in the world of work. You don't deserve that. The Workers' Party believes it is important for Nav to be able to apply the legislation flexibly in order to get people to work. Nav must also be clear that the community does not pay for living for people who do not want to participate in activity or work because of religion or because they do not relate to basic values in Norwegian society. Our expectations must be that everyone must contribute what they can. We also believe that cash benefits should be replaced as much as possible by offers of activity, where possible. As a general rule, social assistance shall also be subject to the obligation of activity. We are clear that cash support counteracts integration. Cash support should, in the view of the Workers' Party, be terminated and replaced by a waiting allowance for those who do not receive kindergarten after a maternity leave. We want to pursue a policy that does not have black paint as a starting point, but where we also make our ambitions visible to create as inclusive a society as possible – where we make demands, but where we also make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1609	We agree that integration is important, but we obviously do not agree on all the measures that can be used to promote integration. One of the important measures launched by the government has been its own integration recipients, where there are clearer and clearer requirements for participation and self-help from those involved, whether they are people who have been accommodated or people who are likely to be accommodated. Before this was adopted, the Workers' Party was quite crammed against this, against this type of reception and called the symbolic policy that was not going to promote integration. A week ago, the first integration reception opened on Steinkjer. There's the Address Paper, among other things. spoke to Adel, a trained oil engineer, who praises the training and is happy that he gets the chance to get out of the labour market quickly. His dream is to use his old engineering training from his home country to become a math teacher in Norway. Can the Workers' Party reconsider and say that this type of integration reception is positive, or is it still such that if not everyone gets, then no one will get?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1616	The premise is going to be wrong. Having any such super-receipts and spending a lot of money on this will not contribute to the overall integration of immigrants in Norway. We have to make sure that we put the opportunities and the means to give everyone the opportunity to learn Norwegian. Everyone will have the opportunity to get to work as quickly as possible. With regard to the Right’s understanding that it is okay that only a few apply, the Workers’ Party does not agree with that premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1621	It's interesting to listen to Lauvå's characterize the councils that one sort of splits through statements. I feel that there is a bit of the same representative doing when he chooses to go for a line of conflict rather than doing what I did in my post, saying that there has been a good cooperation between the municipalities and the government in the construction work. So I'm going to give the representative Lauvås a chance to be more atoning and pleasant in his tone by asking the question: how will he characterize the efforts this government has made with the construction work, when one sees such clear results, that there have been more than one year than four years with the previous government? So I'd like to give Lauvås the opportunity to say some praiseworthy words about that cooperation. Does the Labour Party also see that there has been a good interaction between the local government and the local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1626	As I said in my introduction, there is every reason to praise the municipalities around Norway for making a power cap for housing. Then I feel that in some of these municipalities, where there has been a topic of how many people are going to live, there are many places the representative of Njåstad's own colleagues from the Progress Party who choose to lower the level of ambition when the settlements are to be made in the municipalities. But I agree with the representative of Njåstad: the municipalities have made a great effort. It's just lifting the hat for the job they're doing, and they've managed to do it as quickly as they've done. Then we get to hope that it continues, because it's also part of the most important integration we can have, that people come out of reception, come into Norwegian education, into activity, become known in the community, participate in voluntary work – this whole package that makes them good residents in Norway and contribute positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1631	I am recording a slightly different tone from the Workers' Party now in these matters, sail if I am still really missing that you take into account that there is a refugee disaster in the world. Today, however, SV is promoting a proposal to stop the deployment of minor asylum seekers, based on the age test that everyone now knows that the professional environments and the Public Health Institute, which are to take over these tests over the New Year, say they do not meet targets. In addition to this, the Council of State has tried to mislead the Stortinge by saying that they are always interpreted for the benefit of asylum seekers, which in retrospect turns out to be incorrect. Will the Workers' Party today vote for the SV's proposal and be sure that we are not sending out someone who can prove to be a child on the basis of a wrong age test?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1636	I'm not so sure if we have a different tone, it's possible that it's perceived this way. But at least we fully agree with the SV and the representative Andersen that it is a refugee disaster in the world. It's said that the number is 70 million, there may be more, which for various reasons cannot stay in their home country or their neighbourhood. It's a complete disaster. It's just to look at Syria as one of many examples that here it's necessary to be awake and contribute to what is possible to contribute. I also refer to the post, and we must now assume, and we have asked the Council of State to ensure that returns take place according to the intention and decisions made by the Storting. This means that you do not have to return to unsafe areas, and the Council of State must also explain this in its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1641	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1647	There is dissatisfaction and distress in parts of the world and in our European neighbourhoods. Norway should be a country that takes care of our international obligations and that provides for those who really need protection. Norway has taken and will take our share of responsibility. Together with Germany and Sweden, we are among the countries that have accepted most. Not every country does. The situation of asylum seekers and refugees must be resolved at European level. In 2015 and 2016, the record number of requests for stay and protection came. Many need protection, not everyone does. The conclusion of asylum and integration policy requires that we have control of that very thing. The influx to our country has declined this year. The main work is now, in particular, to include and integrate those who meet the requirements for protection and have refugee status, and thus are entitled to stay in Norway. Well, this has been challenging for our little country, but it's nothing against the challenges people face on the run and the hike. I'm going to go into the more concrete measures in terms of our work in government and in general, just to compensate the municipalities that have done a very important job after the State Council of Solvency Horne contacted all the municipalities. We see results. There must only be a great reward for cooperation between the State, the municipality and the volunteers. How many asylum seekers come to Norway and how many are to be settled in municipalities is not an exact science. It is the number of asylum seekers in Norway and the number of authorised persons who determine the need for residence in the municipalities. There were historically high arrivals of asylum seekers last year, and there were low arrivals this year. It illustrates that it may be difficult to estimate the need for housing. The municipalities have responded to the expectations of increased housing. This is a matter of great respect. There has been good cooperation between countries, municipalities and voluntary/ideal organisations at national, regional and local level. It's been especially important to get the results that we're now seeing. Now we are in the situation that some municipalities are not going to settle for example. single minor refugees, as originally planned, simply because the need has been reduced. The situation with a surplus of settlement sites in the municipalities is new. Municipalities have shown great willingness and ability to settle single minor asylum seekers. In particular, there is reason to thank the municipalities for the extraordinary efforts they have made. I am both humble and touched by the commitment of the municipalities, volunteers and individuals show. Some municipalities have had expenditure to establish measures, invested in housing stock and employed personnel. The level of expenditure varies between the municipalities concerned. The consequences are greatest for the municipalities that have already established measures. I am pleased that the government will assess more closely the costs of these municipalities for the preparation of the settlement of lone minor refugees. I also think it is wise that the government has announced that it will come back to this in connection with the revised national budget for 2017. The number of actually resident lone minors in 2016 will only be given an overview when we arrive at January next year. I attend that overview to look at what will be extraordinary expenses for the municipalities. Furthermore, the government proposes to continue the additional grant to the municipalities in the case of the settlement of refugees, both in general and in the case of lone minor refugees. The additional grant for lone minors is as for 2016, and the general one is as for 2016, but with a requirement that refugees be settled by the end of September. In addition, an additional grant of 500000 per person residing from the institution and an organised department is provided. By the end of November, municipalities had decided to settle above 16 525 refugees. By the end of November, there were 13,700 people living on top of them, 41 pst. more than at the same time last year. It says respect. There is a significant amount of work done by institutions and not least by the employees working in those institutions. The municipalities have responded to the expectations of increased housing. As I said, that's all reason to say that this is good work. At the same time, 4,600 ready-to-residence refugees await reception. Of these, about 1870 had been allocated municipal space. At the same time last year, about the same number were expected in reception. 376 of the ready-to-residence residents at the end of November were lone minors. This is a reduction of more than 145 people from the same time last year. Lone minors and families with children are priority groups in the housing work. In recent years, the government has also prioritised the work of housing and integration, and the right-wing government has been very concerned with increasing the integration grant – by 300 million. kr in the last few years. There has been no equivalent good coverage of the average expenditure of municipalities on housing and integration since 2009. In order to stimulate increased housing, we have granted additional subsidies to the municipalities that receive more than they have been requested. We have paid extra subsidies to municipalities that settle single minors. I am particularly pleased that the government has increased that grant to settle them with major health challenges. The house bank also has an increased grant framework for rental dwellings. In the government budget for next year, further financial intervention is proposed to ensure settlement in the municipalities. We propose to continue the additional payment of NOK 100 000 to the municipalities by settling single minors. It is also proposed that we pass on the additional grant of NOK 50 000 to municipalities that live more than they are requested. In addition, we know that it is extra challenging to have residents living in an institution or an organised department. It is therefore proposed to pay the additional subsidy I have mentioned earlier. The facility for the current year for the integration grant is that municipalities that settle more than they have been requested in 2015 receive the additional grant of NOK 50000 per additional resident. I will also briefly mention the area that concerns lone minors with limited permission, which is not to be settled. I believe it is important that we know who lives in Norway. It is important in order to ensure that both asylum and integration policies are implemented, that single minors are restricted in their authorisation because they have not provided sufficient identity documents. We know that this is difficult, but we also need to clarify as quickly as possible the identity of all those seeking asylum in Norway, including those who are lone minors. At the same time, it is unfortunate that children and young people live in institutions for a long time. UDI has written a letter expressing concern for the situation, to which it is referred for treatment in the ministry. I'm not going to comment on it any more. But it is important that we take a careful assessment of the consequences both for and against housing, before we finally conclude in this area. Then we're facing the situation that the experience from last year and so far this year is that we might not have enough knowledge in this area. It is important that next year's budget actually strengthens research in the field of integration. In particular, with regard to integration policy, the Ministry of the Council of State, which has sectoral responsibility for this, has been concerned with the existence of an adequate knowledge base for policy development in this area. I'm glad it's set for next year at 43.8 million. kr for the maintenance and collection of registration data and research and evaluation of the integration field. The Norwegian Research Council’s Velferd, Arbeitliv and Migration programme receives over 7 million in addition. kr to this field. Integration is a central theme of this research programme, which expires next year and 2018. The programme has an annual budget of more than 100 million. kr. We know a lot about which municipalities succeed and do not succeed, and what work is done out in Kommune-Norway in terms of integrating, but it is important that we also have evidence and expertise in that particular field, because we see that there is a great difference between the municipalities and their efforts in getting them integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1692	I know that the representative Schou is sincerely concerned about settling refugees in the municipalities, and I think that is good. But it is also the case that those who come here and get a stay should not only live, but they should also live in the municipalities. Now we just have a debate about local economy, and one of the things we hear when we're out of the country and beach around is that with the municipal structure that the government has set up, it's hard to do the job that the municipalities have to do – not just live on, but that those who are to be integrated into the municipalities should also be able to live good lives and get the resources they need in school, kindergarten and other places to do it. I wish that the representative of the Workers' Party could have participated in the municipal arrangement, which had given the municipalities 2 billion. kr more. My question is, if the municipalities had got our order, would one then be able to do this job better, in terms of both housing and integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1701	I am pleased that the representative had a ‘if’ in front of his question, because that is not the majority of the Labour Party’s arrangements, and I am pleased about that. The free income of Kommune-Norway is even higher throughout the country. In my own state, there are higher and more free revenues than there was with Sund's government, when the red-green fell. It is such that this government has increased both the organisation grant, the local economy and, not least, the grant to voluntary organisations. As far as I remember, it's 23-24 million. increase in the number of volunteers. For me, it is important that integration work is not just about local economy. Because it doesn't make way for the well. The cooperation between business, school, health, volunteers, the woodpecker, the football, the sport – all that lies there – is what makes us have the total glue in a municipality, which makes people feel integrated and included.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1710	As Schou correctly pointed out, municipalities have made a formidable effort to deal with the increased influx of refugees and asylum seekers, both in terms of residence and in terms of the establishment of reception. They deserve absolutely all praise. Then the situation became that the reception capacity was built up much faster than what was suggested by the municipalities, and many municipalities are left with large bills, both because they had to reduce their refugee service, and not least because of investments that they were supposed to be able to pay off over at least two years of operation, and then it was closed after one. My question is, what will the government parties do to compensate these municipalities? And a little further question in the end: The waiting time between the decision to stay and the residence is said to have increased – i.e. the waiting time for the residence interview – and that this is one of the main reasons why the municipalities do not get those they want to settle. What will the Right do to solve that bunch?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1719	In my neighbourhoods there are also residents' receptions, and the situation is that they are wound up in turn and in order, except for those who of course will continue. Of course, it puts those who are drivers and owners of reception, in a very special situation. It also does for the municipalities. It's a natural consequence that it's now coming less than what it's taken into account. I know that, in the past, the representative, Mr Greni, has called for geographical consideration, and in that way has also drawn up the district map. But I think the question that the representative Mr. Greni now asked has been answered for several rounds, because I know the representative has asked it before, and the answer is that the government will evaluate these situations. The municipalities are very different in terms of establishing new building masses or making investments, and I expect that the government, among other things. come back to these things if necessary in the revision in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1726	When the government has several hundred billion more at its disposal, it would just be missing that none of them came to the municipalities. But there should have been some also to legal certainty, and especially for children who have fled alone, and many of them are without family. There is now a policy in which the government throws out unaccompanied minor asylum seekers or those they think are overage based on age tests for which no professional environment is good. The police are standing by the bed in the middle of the night. So they are told their decision by the police there and then, contrary to legal security rules, they are not given time to contact lawyers, and they are sent out to unsafe places – neither the Minister for Integration nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been able to point to one specific report that shows that neither Mogadishu nor Afghanistan has become safer. Why is the Right no longer a party to legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1731	I don't accept the premise. Right hand is a legal certainty lot. We are concerned that each individual should be treated on its own basis, therefore the purpose of age testing in Norway is also to respect the rights of children and to avoid abuse of the system. It is important that children are not misjudged as adults and that adults are not misjudged as children. It is such that there is no medical method for age testing that provides absolutely safe answers. The results of the study shall also be one of several elements in an overall assessment, and it is also such that doubts should benefit the applicant. Whether the applicant is asked to carry out a medical age assessment depends on a specific and individual assessment and information on the individual case. I am concerned about using the best methods, and I also believe that the future will bring us closer to better methods. But so far it's these methods that we have, which, together with other methods, have to give an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1740	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1745	We live in a world of great distress and distress. The war in Syria is raging, and millions of people are driven away. At a time like this, it is important that we have politicians who show humanity and take responsibility. I'm impressed by politicians who show that they care about the brutal war we're now witnessing. Yesterday I could read that Bergen City Council chooses to give 1 million. For Syria. We are a small country in the world, but we can – and we should – contribute when needed. People who are on the run and who come to Norway should receive a decent and good treatment. Children in refuge must be given extra good care. That is why it has been one of the main priorities of the Christian People's Party in our alternative budget for 2017, both to improve our capacity to accept and to provide children with good follow-up from arrival until they are resident and integrated into a municipality. That's why the Christian People's Party is pleased that we in the budgetary union with the government and the Left got a These are vulnerable children, many have gone through traumatic events, and they have at least as much need for care as Norwegian children. Twenty million. kr is an important start that can contribute to a system that can have more capacity to see and meet these kids. So I would have liked to have seen that the amount was higher. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed a total of 120 million. kr for this purpose. When children and families of children do not need protection and are to be returned, it must be done as far as possible without the use of imprisonment and detention. Provision must be made for the forced return process to be in line with the best interests of the child. The civil officer has described the exit centre at Trandum as unfit for children. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it should be invested in alternatives, and the Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to set off 10 million. kr to a separate exit centre for families with children. Another main priority in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party has been to strengthen volunteering and the work of organisations in integration. Voluntaryness has a unique role to play. They mobilise good forces and provide help and support to newcomers, and they facilitate the participation of refugees in different integration arenas, such as: to participate in organisations, teams and associations. The Christian People's Party is very pleased about this and would like to thank many of the congregations, teams and organisations that are making a daily effort in the integration work. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen this work by 15 million. kr, and the Christian People's Party in particular wants to strengthen in particular an organisation, SEIF, which by very limited means does much to make immigrants more self-held. That is why we are pleased that the organisation has received something and is extra 500000 kroner in connection with the budget unit. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a pilot scheme with a volunteer coordinator has been put into the government's budget. A coordinator may be involved in ensuring that volunteering is well organised and that efforts are made in the best possible way. The Christian People's Party would like to see the maximum benefit limit for families with children removed. Many families experience that it is difficult to get ends to meet, and that they live in fear that children will not be allowed to participate in activities that cost money. The important thing is that the benefits of families with children provide the opportunity to contribute and participate in Norwegian society. The Christian People's Party follows the situation of aging carefully. We will support the Left's proposal to exercise caution when there is doubt about age, and I am promoting this with the other proposals of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1772	Thanks to the representative for a very good post. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has a heart for integration and for those who are most vulnerable in our society. I also want to praise the Christian People's Party, and also the Left, who in the budgetary agreement has turned this in a somewhat warmer direction, but there is no doubt that both the Christian People's Party and the Left in the integration field would get more by turning the other way. Then I want to ask a specific question about some of those who are perhaps the most vulnerable, who are visiting our country, namely the au pairs. There are women who often don't know their own rights, they often don't know their language, they often have a very small network, and a lot of them are afraid to talk to UDI and ask UDI for help when they get exploited. Until now, these have been able to get help at the au pair center. It seems to be going to an end, so my question is therefore: why was it not possible to bring the Right Party and the Advance Party to help some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable women in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1781	The Au Pair Centre is doing an important job, and I've had the pleasure of meeting them myself. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the work that the au pair centre has contributed to, and that is important to very many of those to which the representative refers. The Christian People's Party has had too much impact, but not for everything that we wanted to do with, in the negotiations with the government. Therefore, we find it regrettable that the au pair centre is losing its allocation, and should like to see it included in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1786	After all, the Christian People's Party is a party that has always been concerned about the best interests of children, and I think they also agree with our concern regarding the financing of child protection measures for single minors. KS does not recommend this scheme, because they believe, among other things, that it does. will hit the weakest among the weakest. They are afraid that these will come at the back of the queue in terms of measures, and that the municipalities will then work hard to settle for single minors with great needs. What was the reason why the Christian People's Party did not prioritise this higher in the budgetary debate with the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1793	The Christian People's Party has been sceptical about the conversion of this mechanism to become a price finance. We will follow developments, how this arrangement actually becomes, when it becomes clear, and be very clear that it must be done in a good way so that the Christian People's Party can give its support. The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities should be compensated for the efforts they make for lonely minors, and, of course, these should not end up in line. So we'll follow it carefully when this arrangement gets concrete, and we'll get an overview of what it's going to be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1798	It was good to hear an article that started with the reality outside this room about how some people actually do it in the world today. Then it is nevertheless saddened that the Christian People's Party chooses to cooperate with those who are most opposed to the Christian People's Party in this area, and who will not even be able to increase the number of quota refugees today, even though the border is now closed and the need is much greater than before. SV has made a proposal today concerning lone minor asylum seekers for which the government will send out, based on age tests for which no professional environment is good. We want to do that because the Institute of Public Health is now going to take over this, and that there's a lot in these matters that I expect the Christian People's Party is just as upset and tired of as SV is. Will the Christian People's Party support SV's proposal today on a temporary stoppage of these broadcasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1805	There is no doubt that there is a gap between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party's policy on immigration and integration. But when that is said, we would also say that the Labour Party – which is on the other side – has voted in favour of all of the tightening proposals that have been presented, so the option is not that simple. We're going to support the Left's proposal today, which is going to exercise extra caution when there are particular doubts about age, because we see that these age tests are in no way good enough. When young brother is tested to be older than big brother, it is clear that there are obvious weaknesses in these tests. So we want to support the Left's proposal, but we will not vote for the SV's proposal, as we see that it will be a too drastic approach now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1812	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1817	The Centre Party will conduct a responsible and decent immigration policy. It means a rapid and sound procedure and a prompt return of those who do not have the basis for their stay. It also means that those who are allowed to stay should be settled quickly so that they start the integration process. The waiting time for the residency interview has been too long. The Central Party has proposed in its alternative budget increased appropriations for integration measures because we want day-to-day integration, unlike the government, which only talks about good integration but does not come with the funds. Language training is the key to Norwegian society. That's why, in our alternative budget, we have increased the number of hours of language training received from 175 to 250. Actually, this is not an increase, but a reversal of the cuts made by the government. It is a pity that the Left and Christian People's Party did not prioritise this in the budgetary agreement. Furthermore, the Central Party proposes 200 million in its alternative budget. more for integration grants to municipalities. After all, integration is taking place in the municipalities. It is the most important arena in terms of integration work, and municipalities need to be ensured adequate cost coverage. We also believe that full funding of municipal child protection measures for single minors is necessary. The government's proposal to convert the unit-price financing scheme is unfortunate, and we're against it. Such a scheme will turn out unlucky. In particular, those with the greatest needs will be hit hardest. KS has not advised price financing, and it is regrettable that the government parties have not listened to KS here. Then I'll give tribute to the Christian People's Party for securing 20 million. more on child-care competence in reception. We agreed on this in the integration agreement, and it should have been followed up in the proposition. The Centre also recognises and values the role of volunteer in the integration process and proposes 20 million. more than the government of local organisations involved in integration. After a brief summary of our efforts in the field, I have to say that it is regrettable to note that the main focus of the government is primarily on returning as much as possible to reach the target number they have set. The reason why we're eager to reach the target is that there's a lot of criticism of the government's practice. I am concerned whether the legal security of asylum seekers is actually being safeguarded, and I am addressing the Council of State's answer to my question about it. It is the Council of State and the government's responsibility, and we in the Central Party expect the government to follow up the decisions taken here in the Chamber. With this government, social differences between people have increased. Is it a goal to make greater differences between people? Is it a goal for the government to create an a and b team here in the country? It almost has to ask itself, because it looks like this. It is unfortunate that benefits are now cut into the living quarters of families in receptions of asylum. Here we put a roof of NOK 10000. Of course, this will affect young people living in large sibling flocks. Furthermore, the Centre Party responds to the government introducing payment cards for all asylum seekers without explaining the benefits and disadvantages associated with it. The majority of the population decided to investigate this, but the follow-up has not been completed. The turns have gone a little fast. How is this supposed to work? Our assumption was that it should only apply to single minor asylum seekers, and we have also made clear assumptions that this must be resolved in a way that does not prevent them from participating in leisure activities, etc., so they must have the opportunity to charge less. The fourth year was marked by chaotic conditions when we had large asylum arrivals. Fortunately, the situation is now under control. Several municipalities were invited to accept, and asylum reception was established in many municipalities. Now we see that some municipalities are left with large bills as a result of the large extra cost, and I expect the government to set up and take this bill. We are facing a great deal of work in the coming years. Many have fled and sought protection in our country, and those who are entitled to protection and have been given residence, we shall help as best we can to become self-sustaining and independent people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1845	I've been listening to the representative Greni all day, and the commitment around the municipalities is significant. However, I would like to ask you something, because in what is here, the Central Party and the representative of Mr. Greni clearly believe that it is okay to grant money to an empty reception. I think that's a little strange, and I think it's a little remarkable use of money, so I want an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1850	Of course, the centre party does not believe that we should be left with empty reception, and I fully understand that that degradation went faster than what was intended. Of course, we have to adjust the capacity according to the need. My objection was that there are many municipalities that have made investments considering that they were supposed to have received for two to three years, and then they were closed after twelve months. Many municipalities are left with large bills that they are unable to incorporate into their budgets, possibly affecting other municipal services. I believe that the State has to set up and cover the unforeseen costs that the municipalities have received because these receipts were cancelled earlier than the proposed one. We have never criticised the degradation of reception that took place, because of course it must be according to the need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1858	But the consequence is that when there is no need for them, there is no need to maintain them. Then I don't understand what the basis is. Should this only be given to the municipalities because the need may be there, or because the municipalities should be ready at a later stage? Then we'll have it rigged at a later stage, when you've succeeded. I don't understand this. Here it will be that one will make a precedent over time, and that one then only implements such things, even when the need is not there. This must be explained a little further by the representative, Mr Greni, because this will not work. In reality, when the need is not there, you have to give up. That's the way it is elsewhere. When the need is not there, there is no need to add more subsidies to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1867	I don't know if it's me who's bad at speaking, or if it's the representative who's skinny, but I'm trying again. Of course, the receivers shall be built down when there is no need for that capacity. What I'm talking about is the bill that the municipalities are left with, for example. because they have rebuilt buildings for this purpose. With a time horizon of three years, they've had reception operations for one year, and then they're left with a big bill. Then I expect the State to compensate for the extra costs that the municipalities have and that they do not have the opportunity to cover. I do not expect the reception operation to continue. I don't expect us to have an overcapacity in many thousands of reception places here in the country. I hope this was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1881	As I said, I'm probably not heavy-headed, either to Grini or to the president. It is now one year since the broad integration agreement was concluded at Stortinget. For the Left, the integration agreement was an important part of the response to the increase in the number of asylum seekers that we experienced last year. In the integration agreement, we agreed that it was essential that we did well to integrate those who were going to stay in Norway, and that this remains the main challenge in this area. Many municipalities are already doing well, and we're going to give them credit for the responsibility they took, and the fuss they showed in the difficult situation we experienced last year. However, there are still almost 15 000 people on reception and waiting, despite the fact that up to now only 3 000 asylum seekers have arrived this year. Long-term inactivity in receptions does not provide a good basis for integration. Therefore, it is important that the extra resources given to the UDI are given priority to reduce the time taken. Rapid clarification is just as important whether you get a stay or a refusal. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has finally clarified the situation of the refugees who came over Storskog. If we are to succeed in integrating, we need to get an early start on language training and work organisation. Language is the entry key to society, and we therefore proposed to extend Norwegian education in our alternative budget. For kids, this is about meeting other kids in kindergarten or at school. Kindergarten is the most important integration area for the youngest children. The left therefore prioritised in its alternative budget securing all children in the reception of free kindergarten. Through play and learning, children learn Norwegian and socialize in Norwegian society. This is also an important arena for parents, who are drawn into the social environment, where they learn both the language and the cultural codes. Kindergarten also makes it easier for parents to get into work. The link with working life is central, so in its alternative budget, the Left proposed extending the system of wage subsidies to migrant women. Also, voluntary forces cannot be underestimated, and very important integration work is being carried out throughout the country under the auspices of small and large organisations. Back to the integration agreement last year: One of the points we then agreed on was the need to get more accurate methods for age testing of asylum seekers who claim to be minors. This was a matter that we felt was urgent, and we therefore promoted in our proposal for a representative on more accurate methods of age testing. It has long been known that the medical methods used are controversial. The medical association has been critical and has not been able to attend its members, and the Institute of Public Health, which is supposed to take over responsibility, cannot go well professionally for the methods. The fact that the Council of Medical Sciences on Monday found that the methods are uncertain and that the UDI-designated doctor Jens Grögaard has acted contrary to ethical rules for doctors cannot therefore come as a surprise to anyone in this room. With the consensus we had on the need for more accurate methods, it is difficult to understand why the majority could not support the proposal we made. It is problematic in itself to use such a less accurate method as today’s age test is. But even worse, it's assumed that other assessments are moving in a different direction. In the past, the Minister for Immigration and Integration has informed the Storting that, where there is doubt about age, these will always benefit from doubt, so that they will be categorised as under 18. It's an obvious principle in a state of law. However, there is such a doubt as to whether the principle is the basis for the specific procedure. It is stated by several that in practice the doubts do not benefit the applicants. I would therefore like to promote a proposal in line with the opinions of the Council of State – and expect a broad support for it – where I ask the government to ensure that there are doubts about the age of asylum seekers who claim to be minors, the doubts will always benefit them, so that they will be categorised as under 18. The legal certainty of asylum seekers has been a theme in the autumn, at least in social media. For the left, this commitment, which we share with NOAS and actor Joner, is not about legal certainty for asylum seekers, but about legal certainty in general. People living in Norway must be treated according to Norwegian standards. We prioritised reversing the cut in support of NOAS in our alternative budget – an organisation that always sets up – and are pleased that the organisation's work for some of the weakest of society can be continued at today's level. I'm addressing the Left's proposal, which is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1900	The representative, André Skjelstad, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1907	Councillor Listhaug has his own ability to act with so-called one-liners in different media. One example is that the Council of State is moving out and taking part in the debate with formulations such as eating pigs, drinking alcohol and showing the face in Norway, and that those who disagree are a hornet. I would like to ask: does the representative of Skkelstad from the Left, who is one of the support parties of the Advance Party to sit in government, mean that these are formulations that seem to be collapsing and anti-conflict in an area that is already politically difficult, and where we are talking at last about individuals who are in a very difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1914	The representative of Lauvås knows very well that we have a cooperation agreement and are not a support party – to take it first. I have no faith that the representative Lauvås, unlike me, is thin in this matter. Otherwise, I think I would have expressed myself in a slightly different way than the Council of State does in these matters. For my part, it probably doesn't always help to improve the climate between the Left and the Advance Party that you're too focused on these issues. This is a field where the Left is very concerned about having justice and, not least, as we have said before, getting a quick clearance and getting people out of work quickly. Then I think this is about showing respect to those who come to the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1921	There might be reason to remind Greni that you have to choose your words and expressions with some care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1926	When it comes to being thin and learning names, I record that at least we have something in common there, me and the representative. But then to the line, both of our parties have been clear in the observation that we want to maintain the au pair center. I am very concerned about what happens when this center is closed down, because it is reported that the number of requests has increased sharply since it was opened in 2012, and that there are many women who will have major problems in getting advice and guidance if they have a work conflict with their host families and this centre is closed down. They hesitate to seek help from UDI, they may have feared public authorities, etc. My question is: why has the Left chosen to de-prioritize this in budgetary negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1935	We haven't chosen to downgrade it, but that's not necessarily all you get through for. There's definitely no doubt that this is an important part of what Mr. Greni is addressing, but I don't want to call it down prioritizing. We are fully aware of the challenges. This has been important for the Left in the broad field of integration, and we have always been clear that we are not necessarily close to one government party on the integration side. I don't think it's a surprise. Well, in many ways, the central part is closer, at least to one part of this field, than what the left part is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1942	I believe in Left's commitment, both to refugees and integration, but that's why it's getting even weirder. As I now went through the representative's proposal, he talked about better language training – where the government answers with cutbacks. He's talking about babysitting to those sitting on reception – where the government answers no. And in the case of the au pair centre, which was brought up now – the government answers no. Compensation of employees for women going to work – no. Better age testing methods – no. Legal certainty of NOAS — cut it as well. Treat all children in Norway as our children and treat them the same — no. I wonder what left has got that was worth all of this. SV will support the Left's proposal today, but will the Left support the SV's proposal for a temporary stop now, because that's what could mean for those who are at risk of being thrown out before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1950	I believe that our proposal in many ways is better and more accurate than SVS. If the Council of State stands by what she said in this room, it will in many ways make that doubt clear. I think that's necessary. With the uncertainty that is now around age testing, which Karin Andersen was in, I think it is absolutely necessary to put in place something that is objective, better and more accurate than what is being practiced today, and which was practiced in the same way when Karin Andersen's party put in government before us – before today's government. There is no doubt that this is something we have to do with, and there I agree with the representative Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1957	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1962	To the end, I can say that all those who have now been tested by the old method will not be caught up in the proposals of the Left. That means that a large proportion will be thrown out, without necessarily being sure that it is safe, or that they are adults and not children. Yesterday there were almost 4,000 people gathered in Eidsvoll's place. It was people who see that the crisis is with the refugees, not Norway. There were people who protested that our humanitarian efforts are too small, against our refugee policy being too strict, and that our rules, and not least the rhetoric used in this country, are involved in stigmatizing refugees who do nothing but try to save their lives, and also make it more difficult to integrate those who are actually going to be. Through its handling of the refugee crisis, politicians are threatening to disrupt human rights, said the president of the Worldwide Human Rights Movement out here. Sexism among politicians both in Norway and in the rest of Europe in the case of refugees has reached a level we have not seen before, and they should be ashamed, he said. He also reminded us that it has taken us 200 years and two world wars to get human rights in place, and that they are now under threat. In Europe, it is believed that almost 1 million refugees face a disaster — and in Norway, we believe it is when it comes to 30,000. But it's not a crisis for us, it's a crisis for those who experience war. Those who look at the news by day, and see what happens in Aleppo, in South Sudan, north of Nigeria, and not least in Yemen and Afghanistan, cannot be surprised that people don't stay there. None of us in this room had remained in such a situation. We have to take our responsibility and stop building walls. Because when we build walls, people find other ways, they jump higher, and they risk their lives, but that also means that we give on the boat the whole thing to be able to solve this together. There is a need to have a disciplined division of responsibilities between countries, where a balance is found between reception and integration. This is not happening in Europe today, and it is not happening in Norway. This is why SV proposes that we accept 1,500 more quota refugees and 1000 more refugees through the European allocation mechanism, because it could have helped. Later today, we will also propose more assistance to the neighbourhoods – also in Greece – now. Integration is important. Then we need more Norwegian training – not less, as the government suggests. SV suggests a language billion, so that people who are in reception too will receive good and massive Norwegian training from day one. It helps. We suggest turning the procedure over to asylum treatment and away from withdrawal treatment, so that applications can be dealt with quickly and make people live more quickly. We suggest that all children on reception go to kindergarten, so that they learn Norwegian and enter society. It is also very important for parents, who will come into contact with Norwegian society. We also propose services on reception that allow people not to go hungry to bed or have no money to participate in the local environment and society into which they are to be integrated. We also strengthen the range of activities in many areas, so that all families have the opportunity to have their children in kindergarten and in the school leisure system. Discipline skills at reception need to be strengthened – not as the government is now proposing to weaken it – also for those under 15 years of age. I also record that the government has intended that several of the lone minor asylum seekers, who previously lived in a municipality and could have a normal life, will now continue to live at reception until they are 18 years old, and then they will be thrown out. Children in Norway are to be treated in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child — that is, similar to our children. It is wrong when the council says that this is just about the parents acting differently, it would have been different. Norway has a responsibility for these children, regardless of what parents do. I think I put forward our proposals in the previous debate, but I would like to inform you once again that SV will vote in favour of the Left's proposal, which has been promoted directly in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1987	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1992	I have a very specific question for the representative from SV. It is important that we control the immigration situation in Norway. It is possible that I have passed the house, but it would have been nice if the representative could inform the national Parliament about the measures taken by SV in the area of mitigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e1997	We believe that we should follow the human rights and the principles we have adhered to there and that we should have a safe treatment. SV has been for increased border control. We've been the initiators of strengthening what's called biometric control, because we've been very concerned that it cheats with identities, and that more people can operate with more identities. There I am happy that the government has gradually come after. It is a very important measure. In addition, we propose stronger cooperation with our neighbouring countries in Europe to share this responsibility – not building walls and shutting down people who fear their lives, but sharing responsibility between states that are able to accept more refugees in a disaster. In addition, we are increasing aid in the neighbourhoods much more than the government and Schous' own party are doing, so that many more people who today have to flee because they have neither food, safety nor schooling for their children can stay in refugee camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2004	The immigration expert, to whom the representative Karin Andersen referred, said in the evening post yesterday that he was amazed that Europeans could be so puzzled that a million immigrants came to Europe. It might say a little bit about his level of competence. I guess it's all about tens of millions. My question is this: within a given allocation you will be able to help several more people in the neighbourhoods. Why, then, will SV help less by getting as many of them to Norway as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2011	That's wrong. SV grants much more to help people in the neighbourhoods, both in this year's budget – we will do so in the matter we are going to deal with afterwards – and in the budget for next year. I don't know if it was a mistake, what the representative Njåstad was up and said instead, but he said demonstrably that the best thing is to accept refugees here, and that the second best thing is to accept or help more people there. We have to do both, for example. because the neighbourhoods are very insecure and some of the refugee camps have to get out. It may apply to persecuted Christians, it may apply to persecuted women, it may apply to persecuted atheists or individuals, who may have to leave those camps because there is extremely poor security there. Here it's not useful to do one thing. You have to do both. There must be a much greater effort in the enormous disaster that is now taking place. It won't help building walls, because people don't sit quietly and die in a war. They're trying to save their lives, and I think the representative Myhre would have done that if he had been in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2018	Now Karin Andersen says we have to do both. Then I asked the question again. Since SV obviously has much more money than all of us in the state budget, would it not have been wiser of SV to tone down the desire to get a large number of refugees to Norway and rather help more in the neighbourhoods, so that more people can get help overall?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2023	It is wrong again, and it only shows that the representative has not been involved in SV's arrangements at all. We're using 7 billion. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Nevertheless, we have room to help more refugees through the quota system, and we have a better arrangement for those who come to Norway. This strange way of discussing this, as if someone wanted a large number of refugees! No, I wish it wasn't war in the world. I really wish that people didn't have to escape for their lives. But that's what it's all about -- that people can't stay where they are. Then SV – and I mean personally – believes that it is our condemned duty to do the best we can for people to have their lives and have a future. That's the starting point for this, no desire at all that someone should have to be refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2037	In 2015, Norway received record numbers of asylum seekers. In 2016, we are approaching a new record in low arrivals. There is significant uncertainty about arrivals in 2017 and years to come. However, developments in Europe may have a significant impact on the development of Norway, and we see that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what is going to happen in Europe. Although the number of arrivals to Europe is not at the same level as last year, it is still high. According to UNHCR, more than 175,000 migrants have arrived in Italy this year, which is a slight increase compared to arrivals in 2015. Due to the high arrival rates in 2015, the Foreign Affairs Directorate was significantly strengthened to deal with the high number of cases. The government is proposing to continue SEK 177 million. kr of the allocation to proceedings in the UDI from the additional number. We also propose that UNE be strengthened by 15.7 million. To reduce the number of cases for treatment. Given the latest asylum forecast, parts of the processing capacity of the UDI could be used to strengthen the work on the withdrawal of residence permits. Over time, police and UDI have revealed that many people in Norway are under false premises. Increased resources related to work on recalls are important to avoid people remaining in Norway on a false basis. It is important that Norwegian authorities know the identity of persons entering and staying in the country. This is essential for combating illegal residence and crime related to a false ID. The government is proposing a large-scale investment of 81 million. kr to strengthen the ID work, including extended admission, storage and use of biometrics in foreign affairs. Most of those who came to Norway in the autumn of 2015 will have their case dealt with during 2016 and 2017. Several of these will be rejected. Experience and research show that the longer the stay, the less chance of return will be. It is also better for returnees to do so as quickly as possible. It is therefore important to increase the pressure to return people who do not need protection. In addition to strengthening the police’s capacity to reach 9 000 forced returns in 2017, the government proposes to strengthen the efforts to motivate people to return on their own. Norway should do the best we can for people in need of help. Unfortunately, there are no signs of a quick solution to the conflict in Syria. The government is following up the decision of the Storting on 3,000 Syrian transfer refugees also in 2017. The Government also proposes to grant funds for participation in the EU relocalisation programme for 2017. Norway is taking a great deal of responsibility in the refugee situation. We are also a great humanitarian donor to the relief work in Syria and the neighbourhoods. The government is concerned with good integration and proposes a total of 485 million. kr for a big effort on integration in 2017. Good integration policies are crucial both for the Norwegian community and for the individual staying. Successful integration means that all immigrants to Norway and their children should be given opportunities and able to become part of a community. This means that refugees must enter work or training quickly after they have been admitted to residence. We will introduce 50 hours of cultural and social knowledge for asylum seekers in reception. We continue to work to establish the integration recipients. We propose to set up a fast track into the labour market for refugees with requested skills. We will also strengthen the capacity of the National Quality Education Agency to recognise foreign education. 2015 and 2016 were years of record residence in Norway. We know that there will be many refugees settled in the municipalities in 2017. It is important that we succeed in this job. Many municipalities show great willingness to contribute to the settlement and integration of refugees. The government appreciates that. Good cooperation between the municipality and the state is essential. We have to keep doing that. We also propose a scheme of additional grants to housing municipalities in 2017. These grips shall equip the municipalities to form an important part of the integration and settlement work next year. We have to avoid that larger groups of immigrants are on the outside of society. If parts of the immigrant population fall outside, there may be groups characterised by exclusion, high crime and extreme social control. We have seen examples of areas around Europe where there are parallel societies. We do not have such an environment in Norway today, nor do we want such conditions in the future. The government believes that we must be in the forefront and take action early when we see indications of a negative development. Greenland in Oslo is such an area, and we are therefore proposing a commitment to create a safer everyday life in Greenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2074	Of those who charge cash support in the country today, the proportion of immigrant women is very high. Then one deprives the women of the opportunity both to learn Norwegian and to get into work. In addition, a child deprives these women of the opportunity to learn Norwegian, because they are not in kindergarten and enter school without being able to speak Norwegian. Why does the Council of State choose to cut Norwegian training and pay immigrant women to be at home when we know that work and language are the most important key to successful integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2079	In the integration message, we broadly agreed that in the first five years after coming to Norway, cash support should not be required. It is precisely to prevent women from choosing to be at home with their children and getting cash support instead of being part of the introduction system and following the programmes that are in place. In addition, we were clear that even if you have children and you have leave – if you can call it – you have to participate as much as you can in the teaching that takes place in the introduction programme, when there has been a small period of time. This is precisely because these women are not to be burdened with this in order to be involved in the integration process that is important for their success in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2084	The government cuts in language training, which will have major consequences for those in the introduction programme and those in receipt. The government is increasing the payment for cash support, and I want to ask again: Does the Council of State think it is sustainable for the Norwegian welfare state to continue paying people not to work, even in the future? In fact, the proportion of immigrant women receiving cash support is much higher than the proportion of other women, and there is nothing to suggest that this will reverse when the cash support is located there as the offer it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2089	The point is that when you live on reception facilities, your application is processed and granted, you do not have the right to cash support in the first five years after the changes that have been made. We are in the fantastic situation now that the influx to Norway is very low. This means that, with regard to the processing of applications received this year — and if it continues next year with low arrivals — the time of the proceedings will fall sharply. This means that these persons will receive a faster response as to whether they are staying or refused, and they will be allowed to stay, they will be able to live in a municipality more quickly and start in the ordinary Norwegian course. It is the most important thing for us to succeed. This government has also been very concerned that we need to give increased insight into the society that those who come to come to. In terms of both equality and other important values, we want to start right away. It has been important for us to prioritise, also in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2096	We just had a big debate on municipal economics before the Council of State came. The municipality of Norway really swung around last autumn and joined the refugee dungeon when Norway needed it the most. The government did not plan well enough, so many of these municipalities are left today with an extra bill because they chose to engage when they were asked to do so. What does the Minister intend to do to compensate for the extra costs that the municipalities have incurred as a result of the government's inability to plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2101	It is relatively demanding to plan, for how many to settle, will depend on how many come. As the representative knows, estimates have been strongly adjusted this year. The second thing that matters is how many people get the applications and are going to live. I just have to say that I am very impressed with the work the municipalities have done. There has been an extraordinary job, and I know that some municipalities have done a job without getting the people they were representing to the municipality. In this respect, we have said that we will come back to that question in the revised national budget. We have very good contact with KS regarding this matter, to get information about how many municipalities are involved, and what kind of expenses you have had. I can promise the representative that we will follow this closely in the future, too, in close cooperation with the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2108	The centre party agrees that rapid transport after refusal is reasonable, but more media redundancies recently raised doubts as to whether legal certainty would be ensured in the event of deportation, in particular in the case of lone minors. It has, among other things, have been reported, where it is claimed that asylum seekers are wearing handcuffs, interned at Trandum and transported without prior notification of the refusal, and without having spoken to their lawyer. It worries me. Therefore, I hope the Council of State can confirm that legal certainty is guaranteed – that everyone who receives a refusal is given the rejection by their lawyer and is informed of their rights, and that everyone is given a date of departure and an opportunity to return voluntarily before the drastic intervention as an attack is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2115	I assume, when returning these persons, that the legislation underpinning it is followed. It's important, and that's how before you get to a point where you're doing forced returns, you've had the opportunity to go back on a voluntary basis. That's what we really want most of everything, because it's much better for us, and it's much better for them. These things are difficult. It is clear that for these people it is dramatic. They will travel back to a country from which they traveled with hope of a better life. Nevertheless, it is incredibly important that we carry out returns from people who are refused, because it also has something to do with the signal effect that we are surrounding. I heard the Prime Minister talk about yesterday when she was responsible for this field. It was challenges at the time too, individual things that were difficult. I've just taken a little dive into the previous period, when Pål Lønseth, the State Secretary of the previous government, was the one that fronted this field. It was the same things that went on again then: individual things that are difficult. But it is absolutely necessary that we follow up what are the decisions in our administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2131	I was also inside this in my post, so I just want to get a clarification. The Minister was here earlier and informed Stortinget of the following: ‘Where there is doubt about age, these will always benefit from doubt, so that they will be categorised as under 18 years of age.’ Then I want to ask the minister if she still stands by what she said in this room at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2143	Yes, I definitely do. However, in the context of the procedure you will have both a possible medical test, if you think it is necessary, and in addition you will look at other information in the case and compile it. I think the head of the UDI, Frode Forfang, had a very nice blog that took up just this theme, where he described how these decisions are made, and where he was also clear that in these matters there is a safety margin – precisely because you are afraid that it should be to their detriment. Cutting out aging will be completely irresponsible. Sweden is going to start with it now, and we saw that they got over 35,000 lonely minors last year. It has been reported that persons at the end of the 20s who live at reception for lone minors, and for the sake of legal certainty for the lone minors, it is also important that we focus on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2152	First, it is wrong when the Council of State says that these people who are now being dragged out of bed at night could have traveled out before. They get their rejection there and then – they have not received it before. The second is that the Council of State does not go back on what she said here, that the age tests are always interpreted to the benefit of lonely minors. This shows the figures provided by the state councils themselves – that this is not true. It has nothing to do with the fact that there are other assessments in addition, it has to do with how this test is interpreted. Yesterday I saw that the council was out and wanted to support an organisation called Open Doors. It's okay. But then I would also like to ask if the Council of State agrees with this organization when they strongly criticize Norway for our return policy of Christian converts, to Iran. Norway is aware of this, because Norway has defined that Christian converts are safe in Iran, which they really are not. Will the Council of State change this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2159	I am behind the freedom of expression of every organization and the right to believe exactly what they want, whether it is government policy or other people's policy. Then neither this minister nor the government decides which countries are considered safe for different people. We have a body, Landinfo, which has the primary responsibility for collecting the information, and then it's UNE and UDI that make the necessary assessments. I'm recording that the interpretations of what I'm saying here may sometimes be slightly different from what I think I've said. For example, I was clear that with regard to the safety margin in these cases, it concerns both the age test and other information in the case, which will always benefit the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2166	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2171	When I heard the Christian People's Party in the pulpit today, I kind of knew it in my stomach. Because when we see the pictures from the world, when we see the refugee disaster that's in the world, it's like I think we've taken many to tears, some and each, for what we see. We could have wanted to close our eyes again and hope that it went over, but it doesn't. Some of the many who are on the run in the world have come to us, and several of them are going to come to us, also in recent times. Then it is important for us in the Workers' Party that we accept them well, and we have to make sure that they get a good life in Norway. For the Workers' Party, the principle is to do your duty and to demand your right pillar of integration policy. We view diversity as a resource for value creation and for development, and for encounters between people and cultures. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. Then it is absolutely essential to facilitate work and activity. The key to good integration is that one learns Norwegian and gets into work, and one actually stays there. That work must start from the very beginning. Most of those who have migrated or are descendants of immigrants do well in Norwegian society, but there are still major challenges. When the proportion of women in work is so much lower than for men, it is a huge challenge. The measures and measures we are going to take must be good. We must not create greater differences between people, and we must initiate measures that are building up the differences that already exist. The representative Njåstad took up his post today and praised and described the policy of integration to the government as ‘unique’, I think – unless the word was ‘unique’, it was at least heard like that. I don't share that description. We rarely hear that the Council of State is talking about or is concerned about integration. We feel that the government and the Council of State have low ambitions for integration in Norway. The Council of State now says what's important, in the pulpit here, but she's doing the opposite in practice. The Labour Party will reverse the government's cut in Norwegian training at reception, because we have to get people to learn Norwegian, be activated and get into work. The government is most concerned about saying that they need to learn Norwegian, rather than taking action to make sure that it can actually happen. The working party will give kindergarten space to all three-year-olds in reception. It's important for the kids, and it's important for the parents. We think it is a pity that the government will not be involved in an early effort towards the smallest, so that they can learn the language as early as possible. Because it is vital for these kids to be able to cope with the future. We will also co-finance child protection measures in municipalities. Municipalities shall be compensated for their expenditure when they receive unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. It's really a shame that the government is proposing a reconversion of the system so that kids with the greatest need can be selected away because it's too expensive. This is not good integration for everyone. The Labour Party will also have to invest more in wage subsidies, because it will also make you more at work, and it is important that those who come to Norway are, in order to be able to be integrated. They must become taxpayers and contributors and be able to live their own and good lives. We also want a significant area effort, we also want a strengthening of NOKUT's work on competence monitoring and job opportunities to help immigrant women in particular into work. The government will, as I said in the reply box, pay immigrant women to be at home, not to work and not to learn Norwegian. It's the Workers' Party very opposed. What I hope is that the Council of State will be able to present new proposals to the Grand Duchy in the six months ahead of us next year, which will promote integration, rather than tightening up proposals that will inhibit integration. The party is very concerned that one must dry up the debate on immigration and integration. We fully agree with that in the Workers' Party, but I suspect that the Council of State is most concerned with producing a fragmented rhetoric where it is them and us, and does not want discussion that can lead to new ideas and solutions. But I hope, of course, that I am wrong, and that in the course of my last year in government, the government will be able to bring something to the table that actually aims to improve integration. Then I have a question I hope the Council of State can answer. In the exchange of lines with the Left, at least I doubted the answer on the issue of resolving the proposal to the Left, which is to be voted on today. Is that a proposal the Council of State agrees with? It would have been good to know from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2194	Immigration is a source of diversity in Norway. It gives us new impulses, it gives us a cultural exchange we need, and if immigrants come to work, it contributes to economic growth in Norway. It is therefore incredibly important to facilitate integration into society as quickly as possible when immigrants arrive. There are many good measures in the budget that promote work, including: Job opportunities, regional centres of establishment, rapid pathways into working life, and not least the work being done at the introduction centres. They deserve praise today. Many immigrants are entrepreneurs and educated in a culture where creating their own jobs is quite common. It is therefore positive that the Committee notes that the National Centre for Multicultural Value Creation in the Drama is engaged in a work where it has actually contributed to the establishment of 263 establishments by immigrants and half of their students are women. So it's important that this center secures the means to continue its development work. Norway is unable to maintain its welfare systems with a large proportion of the non-working population. The oil price drop has created major challenges for us, especially in the South and West, but in the 2017 budgetary agreement we have facilitated growth capacity, migration and security of well-being. But it is worrying that this year's Nav figures show that first-generation immigrants have three times as high unemployment as the rest of the population. And it's worrying that averages are only six out of ten immigrants in work after completing the introduction program. We cannot have a society where a large part of our newcomers stay out of work and become dependent on social security benefits in order to function. Language and understanding of the community around you are the key to being integrated into society, and time in receptions must be used as effectively as possible. This is why the government's introduction of 50-hour training in cultural and social knowledge is good. In the International Survey on Migrant Integration Policy Index, Norway comes in fourth place by countries such as Canada, Finland and New Zealand in terms of integration policy, so this is not a black picture. Norway has good legislation and framework conditions that promote the integration of immigrants. But with the need for transformation into the Norwegian economy, increased unemployment and greater immigration as a result of war and unrest in the world around us, our integration policy is challenged at all stages. Several of those who come must work, and most of those who come will also work, but it takes too long, and we must have more dynamic solutions to succeed. In a 2015 NIBR report on regional opportunities and barriers to the employment of immigrants, it appears that there is too little local and regional governance to implement our policies in the various areas of activity. We must include all actors much better to adapt the instruments. It also appears that there are too rigid instruments in Nav, and it is not adapted to the local immigrant population and the needs of the labour market. It is also pointed out that the introduction programme is too under-worked. In other words, we need to think anew to get good integration and get more people to work. Right will be on it. The establishment of integration receivers is new. There has been some resistance, but we need to be more bold than we are today, for the development of offers in integration facilities will take place in cooperation with the municipalities, asylum-seekers in the municipality and the career-centre in the vicinity and the volunteer. The models are to be evaluated, and the department has said that they should build on what is good, i.e. ‘best practice’. Being at work prevents exclusion and promotes participation in society. That's what we want from those who come to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2211	It is a powerful diet to watch TV in the evenings — to see the situation in Aleppo. It concerns, and it is also a reminder that the people of Syria and the refugees in Syria's neighbourhoods are in a very difficult situation. When 2016 goes to the end, it is worth remembering the countless lives that have also been lost in the Mediterranean this year. War, poverty and climate change are driving people on the run or in search of a better life, with the human costs it has. The world’s refugees need better protection than they do today, and Norway must be a driving force behind it through humanitarian efforts and international cooperation, not least in Europe. The challenges of migration put the world community and community to the test. There is a need for more cooperation to protect refugees, to ensure control of borders and to ensure that the institution of asylum consists of: cooperation between countries, cooperation between parties and cooperation between countries, municipalities and voluntary organisations. The Progress Party has earlier in the debate today accused the Labour Party of taking a confrontational line. It is possible that there was an attempt at a joke, but with the risk of being perceived as angry, I don't think it was particularly funny. I think it's actually disrespectful when we look at what's happened in the world around us and in Stortinge in the last year. The games at Stortinget have taken responsibility and set up through conciliation. We have not supported everything the government has come with, as the Christian People's Party did to claim. But we have set up, and there is no government ever that has had such a good starting point for dealing with the very difficult issues in the refugee and asylum field that today's government has had. Therefore, it is striking that the government was unable to deal better with the situation than they were doing last harvest, and that they have not yet been able to clean up. Government parties must be able to hear and stop using disclaimer. Last autumn, the Stortinget took a position of 48 hours on changes in the Foreign Affairs Act, which included: removed the requirement of substantive treatment for asylum seekers who had resided in Russia. The status of one year afterwards is that of the 5,000 people crossing the Storskog border, very many have disappeared from reception. Some have been returned, while the rest are dealt with in reality after a very long time in an unexplained situation. There are also very many questions relating to the legal security of asylum seekers, which I expect the Council of State to answer here today. With regard to the relationship with Russia, there are also many unanswered questions, and there I welcome this statement that we are going to get after Christmas. Last fall, when the government failed in Storskog and couldn't stand up with people or resources to take care of those who came, there was someone else who set up. It was the volunteer, and it was the municipality of South Varanger, who set up emergency reception. Now it is against the case between the municipality of Sør-Varanger and UDI because the municipality of Sør-Varanger believes they have not been refunded all the money they have spent. I think it's an unworthy treatment of this municipality. It seems that the government council has sometimes good days with a lot of time to banish on Facebook. I would recommend that she one day sign off and sit down with the rapporteur, Rune Rafaelsen, and find a political solution to the asylum bill with which the municipality of South Varanger remains, and which has now led to cuts in welfare services and care for the elderly locally – a rather sad result of putting up on the table. There are also several other municipalities that have not met the costs they have incurred. It's negative for the local economy. But another very unfortunate consequence of the municipalities being penalised for having set up is that it is not safe for them to set up the next time they need their efforts. I also hear that the government parties here boast of the dialogue with, among other things. KS, but KS has strongly warned against the new system for the reimbursement of child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers, so it may be a good idea to have dialogue, but the government has chosen not to listen to the municipalities, and it is serious. When it comes to cutting language training and promises of cash support only you have been in Norway for five years, there is also no contribution to the municipalities to say that here in Norway we learn Norwegian, and we get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2228	I'm glad that we have a government that works purposefully to achieve a good integration of refugees. The majority dealt with the government’s integration message just before the summer. This communication is now being followed up in the budget, with funding for several important actions, so that those who have been granted a residence are integrated into our society as quickly as possible. It is demanding to be new in a foreign country, unable to speak, have no family and networks and had to deal with another culture, with other rules, standards and requirements. It is important to meet the refugees with humanity and generosity and try to understand the difficult situation they are in. But if we are to succeed in integrating, it is also necessary to make demands. Making demands is about respecting and believing that our new citizens are important contributors to our society. An effective and good integration policy is about facilitating the entry of refugees and immigrants into work. Earning your own money, owning your own home, having contact with others and being able to use your language are important factors in integration. The integration work must therefore be initiated as soon as possible for those who are likely to be granted residence. Therefore, the action is important for the integration of motivated asylum seekers. At these receptions there are contracts with obligations and requirements in an intensive programme, including, inter alia: 50 hours of training in cultural and social knowledge and enhanced vocational guidance. Learning about Norwegian society, Norwegian laws and regulations and about our culture and behaviour will be of great help to many in their transition to society and to the labour market. The government has also opened up temporary work permits for asylum seekers who cooperate in clarifying their identity and who have a high probability of staying. It's positive. Too many have become inactive in reception and waiting for an asylum interview. This action will promote integration and help more people to get their lives moving faster in this country. In the introduction programme for newly arrived refugees, the government will focus much more on work focus. Norwegian education and other training in municipalities should strengthen each other rather than be in competition with each other. Multiple parallel runs must be pursued. It is important to learn Norwegian, but it must not be an obstacle to an opportunity to get to work. Training and employment measures must be coordinated so that those who move here from a completely different culture can become a natural part of our society more quickly. We can't afford it to take many years before immigrants are qualified for work. A few days ago, I read that the word «working day integration» has been assigned to the new words of the year by the NHH and the Language Council. It was Erna Solberg, our prime minister, who launched this word in her New Year's speech, inviting us all to participate in the great hard work of helping our new neighbours and countrymen to become acquainted with Norwegian society. «Everyday integration» I think is a great word. The word accommodates what we do in our everyday lives, and the effort made by the most people – the Nordics who care, invite refugees with their homes and immigrants on football or on Christmas back, who put up in language cafes, or help in finding housing or other practical things. Integration and equality must be the focus of everything we do. I have met many people who have lived in Norway for a long time and who have received Norwegian citizenship, but who still feel that they are not entirely members of Norwegian society. That's sad to hear. With a different skin color and a foreign name, more people do not experience being called to the job interview even if they are qualified – yes, overqualified. We want a society where everyone is equally worth it. That is why we must work to change attitudes and practices. Finally, I want to encourage all of us – including myself – to become better at everyday integration and invite our new fellow citizens into our social arenas and meeting places. No one's earned the experience of being on the outside and not belonging to the Norwegian community. With good integration, our new citizens will be able to become active participants in social and work life and contribute to the creation of a better Norway with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2247	We live in a world of brutal contrasts. As we rush around the hunt for the last Christmas presents, people run for their lives in Aleppo. While many of us are happy to eat Christmas dinner with the family at Christmas, there are many who have no idea if they have food on the table tomorrow. And when we go around the Christmas tree on Christmas Eve and we sing "blessed is the earth," the earth is anything but delicious to those who live in the midst of the brutal reality of war. Norsk Folkehelp's partners now report that Syria is being warned about massacres against civilians – women and children are being executed on a regular basis – about children who are starving, and despairing parents. In many places in the world, there is a humanitarian disaster and human distress that I think is hard for us to grasp. I don't think it's possible to understand the fear that many people on this earth experience. But what's understandable is why they're running away, why they're leaving everything they own and spending on a life-threatening flight in the hope of safety. The refugee crisis is by no means over. It's never been bigger. So far this year 4,700 people have died in the Mediterranean. There's a thousand more this year than it was last year. Human traffickers are becoming more and more brutal, and Doctors Without Borders report that nine out of ten children are now travelling all alone across the Mediterranean. Time and again, we are seeing refugees lose their lives when big politics takes place – which reaches 75,000 people stranded in no man’s land between Jordan and Syria. Jordan refuses to open the borders. They have long made it clear to the world community that responsibility needs to be shared more fairly. And when we see unworthy conditions in crowded camps in Greece and Italy, it's the refugees who lose when countries by country participate in a black-and-white game where it's about taking the least responsibility. Never before have so many been on the run. It's easy to get discouraged, but there's hope, fortunately. Last weekend many of us were in the City Hall and heard the Nobel lecture to President Juan Manuel Santos. It happened very well, also in what's happening in the rest of the world. I want to read out some quotes from the speech: ‘In a world where wars and conflicts are nurtured by hatred and prejudice, we must find the way of forgiveness and reconciliation. In a world where borders are closed for immigrants, where minorities are attacked and those that are different are excluded, we must be able to live side by side with diversity and value how it enriches our societies. Seventh and last, we're all human beings. We're all part of this adventure it's being alive and living on this planet." [[...]] I think a lot of people could have benefited from reading that number and going a little bit by themselves. In the debate on asylum and refugees, that is exactly what we have to remember: we have more in common than what separates us. The shortage is no threat. The variety enriches us. It's those who fear the diversity that scares me, those who drive split and rule, who distance instead of gathering, who run political games rather than spend time on political solutions. The working party today presents a number of initiatives for integration, concrete actions. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. Then it has something to say about the words we use, how we talk about our fellow human beings, how we, as responsible politicians, try to get together and stand together in the challenges that meet us. I want to end with another quote from the Nobel Lecture: «Our home is the World. And our race is Humanity. If we understand this, if we make this part of our individual and collective consciousness, we can remove the root of conflict and war itself." I hope there are several people who are listening to this Nobel lecture, and that we can reassemble in the New Year and meet challenges with solutions and not with prejudices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2278	This debate and this subject are widely fanned. It starts far beyond the borders of the country and ends in our municipalities and our neighborhoods. Then we must also understand that the debate is complex. There are no correct answers in all situations. There's no black-and-white every time. Let's agree on the following: Those who want a lot are not stupid. Those who are sceptical and ask questions are not bad, and those who do not have all the answers are not unresponsive. Faced with a great challenge to the dimension we have in front of us, it is precisely the sum of all the voices that will create a policy and solutions that will get legitimacy in the population and stand over time. This is because if we fail to work, we are at risk of increased social differences. The challenge we're facing now has a completely different dimension and size than we've ever seen before when it comes to integration. Today’s integration model therefore needed a renewal after being silent for too many years. We must ensure that the path from refugee to an integrated and inclusive citizen becomes as short as possible, and work on this is about political realities. Therefore, this government ensures that integration is about housing, work, welfare services, language and not least municipal economy, which sees this in context. We'll make sure that integration starts earlier. We provide good Norwegian training and social skills already in the reception phase. In fact, it is important to learn more about our values, norms, culture and laws in addition to Norwegian education. Integration recipients will be involved and ensure that this work is further intensified. The Norwegian housing model is good. We are served with a voluntary line, and I would like to thank all the municipalities that contribute to this task today from this pulpit. Without them, this work had not been possible. In too many municipalities, there are too few who get into work or education after the introduction programme has been completed. At the same time, there are large differences between municipalities. The introduction programme in the municipality needs to see language training, working practices, education and community involvement in the context. Municipalities that see integration as an integral part of their municipal services succeed in delivering good results. Municipalities need to cooperate more closely with business in order to get people to work. Early competence monitoring, differentiated races and fixed track schemes are necessary measures. Many such measures were announced in the Communication of Integration and the government is now following them up in the budget for next year. So finally, when all fine speeches are made, political decisions are made, and the systems are in place, this is also about how we accept and look at our new countrymen. Have we got a new immigrant in the neighborhood, or have we got a new neighbor? Have our children had an immigrant boy in class or a new classmate? Have we got a new immigrant woman at work or a new colleague? That's exactly what everyday integration is all about. The responsibility for this lies both with the individual immigrants, with us as individuals and with us as big communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2298	The chairperson of the Committee stressed the integration in his opening statement. I also want to focus on that, and especially on a working method that I think we are talking too little about, and which is perhaps underestimated, namely the area initiatives. It is a form of work that we should develop further in areas where there are many with migrant backgrounds, many who have come as asylum seekers, refugees, many with low incomes, short education, there is congestion, there is a large proportion of 'dropouts', dropouts in high school, etc. It's important to be very early out, to be in the forefront of preventing all kinds of trends in parallel societies. The Groruddals bet has created new optimism and positive developments. It is good that the government has committed itself – in a spice layer with the municipality of Oslo – to continue that effort for another ten years. One of the main areas, the main fields, to be invested in in the ten new years, is the upgrading of the local environment. Then it is wrong that the government in its draft budget has cut the entire allocation under what is called Cape. 590 item 72 Housing, urban and territorial development grants. The working party has added another 21.1 million. kr in its budget option. It is also positive that the government, together with the Municipality of Oslo, will start an area operation on Greenland-Vaterland-Tøen, on which the Council of State was involved. If we add up the amounts I look at different items in the state budget to that area, we're over 34 million. SEK – 34.5 million. I think kr. It's a start that can be good and important. It is very important that this area is given a boost, among other things. by getting a better grasp of what is happening in the area of crime, drug addiction and the long-term environment, where there is also an environment of its own that is addicted to the drug and which is damaging to a large and important immigrant environment. From the beginning, it is important that the money to be spent in the Greenland-Vaterland-Tøen bet is not only shaken out for all kinds of good purposes, but that the state and the municipality together create a plan, so that there is hope of fundamental change in the area. Such money can quickly just be lost individually in things, which can be positive, but that doesn't give a fundamental change. Another important area for such efforts – which is only mentioned to the extent that I found only one word in all the government budget documents – is Oslo South. It is about the areas Holmlia, Bjørndal and Mortensrud, with approx. 45,000 people. Recent developments have shown that we have some of our biggest challenges in criminal gangs — building revir, and with kidnappings and torpedoing activities, which characterize outdoor areas. We need to improve prevention among young people and others there, improve integration and build more attractive neighbourhoods, as we have seen in, for example: Furuse in the Groruddalen, where development has been reversed. If developments in such areas are negative in the years to come, they will have an impact on the entire integration debate in Norway – not only in Oslo but throughout the country. I refer to other countries, where one has neglected, for too long closed its eyes to a problematic development in some cities – we see the climate of integration and development in society. So I'm just encouraging the other parties to support proposal no. 4, from the Workers' Party, in the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which shall be: ‘The government asks the government to enter into negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo so that the joint venture in Oslo Sør or Søndre Nordstrand city can be extended for 10 years until it expires in 2017.’ So it won't involve any new costs or anything. in the budget for the next year, for 2017, but one will be able to come back to it in 2018, when the bet on Oslo Sør expires next year. We can discuss very much in general which is good and good with integration, but if we don't manage to go together and be in the forefront of solving problems in areas where integration is most put to the test, we put the whole success of integration policy at risk. So please, other parties – consider supporting proposal No. 4 in today's setting!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2320	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2325	Then I'll continue where Jan Bøhler stopped. But first a quote: ‘Some European countries have had several higher immigration rates than Norway. For the time being, immigration does not represent a major problem for us, but we see clear results in Germany, France, the Netherlands and England on what can happen when too large groups migrate with a completely different cultural background, other perceptions of legal concepts, other religions, etc. settles. They have formed ghettos, they refuse to comply with rules and standards that apply in their new home country. We have had riots and crime, even in Norway.’ I wrote this in an article in the Evening Post in December 1981, exactly 35 years ago. What was called ghettos that time, might have been a bit inspired by Elvis Presley. It's called parallel societies today. Unfortunately, it turns out that my concerns at the time were justified. But let's say, the vast majority of immigrants come to Norway with the best intentions. Most of them integrate and find their way into the Norwegian community. Unfortunately, too many have come in too short a time. In Oslo, the population has increased by 220 000 people since 1981, when I wrote that article. Nearly all population growth has come from immigration. In Oslo’s 15 urban areas, with an average population of 44 000, the population of immigrants is in the majority of 3 urban areas: Alna, Stovner and Søndre Nordstrand. Then the minority population is 100 p.m., because the ethnic Norwegians are also in a minority in their own country, in the capital of Norway. And several parts of the city follow. In such circumstances, of course, it is difficult to integrate our new countrymen. This is why parallel societies arise, which is why it is not important for young people to learn Norwegian; they come a long way with their native language in their local areas and urban areas. That's why gang crime, hatred, violence, and other crime arise. The same developments are also taking place in the rest of the country, but it seems best — or worst — in Oslo. Norway’s population is less than one per million of the world’s population. One too weak immigration and refugee policy will therefore bring irreversible changes, just to say do irreparable damage to the country in which we are all so happy. I would urge caution in immigration policy. The Progress Party recommends a strict but fair immigration policy. It's the only thing that's sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2341	Stine Renate Håheim, the representative of the Workers' Party, described the world situation in an excellent way. In Kristiansand we have a regional crisis, a regional result of the reality described here globally. The fatherland friend, our newspaper, describes a regional drama: Lonely minors with destructive behavior, threats, wars, suicide and self-harm. UDI all over the country is worried, writes the paper. This is a negative trend in asylum recipients. 18 residents have disappeared last week, only in the South. This is also about integration. Those who are here, they are here, and the Minister for Immigration and Integration has a responsibility for them. Governments and governments are responsible for dealing with the hopelessness and desperation we see in these young people. When they are on Norwegian soil, regardless of whether the asylum application has been granted or not, the expert council and the government are responsible for ensuring the security and tranquility of receptions, and they have a responsibility to mitigate the risks and threats to which these young people may be exposed when they disappear from receptions. Municipalities and trade unions in the South are experiencing very serious situations, and it seems that the Council of State Listhaug is doing the same thing as most governments from this government: pointing down. But I hope the Council of State is in dialogue with the outdoor apparatus and is close to development. In my region, municipalities and UDI have expressed great concern about the situation. I would ask the Council of State to inform the Storting of what advice she has given to the UDI, and possibly to the County of Agder, about the serious situation in the South. The Council of State has had contact with the municipalities concerned to listen to the challenges they face, such as: RVTS South, Center of Competence for Violence and Traumatic Stress? The paper says that the Council of State would respond on Monday to the paper, but I have not seen any response. I might ask the Council of State to use this opportunity to answer that question. Social security and security are also issues of security and security for citizens individually. Therefore, the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that single minors do not drown in desperation and hopelessness, a great responsibility, which is also about social security and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2352	Many people claim that we're spending too little time on integration. To that I can say that this is what I might spend most of my time around Norway – visiting municipalities and visiting various businesses involved in integration. But for some reason it's not that exciting for the media to look it up big. This may be because there is a greater degree of consensus in integration policy here in the Chamber. So to that solve the proposal from the left. I have to say that I have difficulty seeing that we can ensure this something better than today. I would like to stress that those who are entitled to protection get it, regardless of whether they are under 18 or over 18 years of age. Where there is doubt when adding the age test and the other information in the case, the doubt should always benefit the person concerned. I would also like to stress that the UDI places a safety margin on these issues, and that we use the methods that are available. I fully agree with those who say that those methods are not optimal. It's a discussion about it, and it's been for years. You can search for this and find out that this discussion has been going on for years, and that is what several governments have been missing. But it's working to see how we can improve it, and the Institute of Public Health has taken on professional responsibility. In the case of Sørlanden, it is not that I have direct contact with certain municipalities in my everyday life, but I have registered that there is concern at some of the receptions that are for lonely minors. Of course, I'm very concerned about that, and the fact that UDI follows up this in a good way. I understand that these young people find it difficult to come to Norway to start a new and better life, and that some of those between the ages of 16 and 18 are now going to have limited authorisation. It's a situation I'm following, and it's also important to keep up with it. But it is absolutely necessary that we conduct a strict and responsible policy, because otherwise we know that the signals will be that Norway can again appear more attractive, and then we will sum up the sum not to help as many people as we might by having control. It has, among other things, This year we can allocate more money to help out in the neighbourhoods, precisely because we are getting a lot of savings here at home. At least that's my goal: to help as much as possible. Then we have to have control here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2365	I record that the Council of State now came up with what is really her main concern, namely that the least possible will come to Norway seas if there are many who need protection, that Norway should be the most stringent across Europe, and that it is important to scare away real asylum seekers from applying in Norway. That is the reality. With regard to the fact that those entitled to protection are actually allowed to stay, there may be doubts about it when the legal remedies implemented show that many who take their case to the courtroom are actually winning. This also applies to some of the lone minors who have been transported to Trandum, but who have managed to get hold of a lawyer who shows that it was wrong, so that they are picked up again. When, in addition, the government cuts legal aid schemes, this is uncertain. The latter is the land assessment, where it is not possible for the government to present or present a report showing that this land assessment is now more secure for internal return in Kabul — it means no country other than Norway. And that the majority of the Biggest has also removed the reasonableness requirement is not just the responsibility of the Council of State; it's everyone's responsibility. Stine Renate Håheim was up here in the village and kept an post which I wish I had kept going. It was a good post, and I sincerely hope that the representative will get more insight into his own party in the future, so that we can put in place a humane and fair refugee policy. We have been challenged a little by rigour in this. I would say that throughout all the years SV has had as much money to return as the government has had, but we disagree with the priority. For example, the government is now giving priority to: recalling and taking children's families who are legally allowed temporarily, who have never committed adultery or any fault and who are depending on their seas. Instead, you don't have the resources to give priority to throwing out those who are actually criminals. There is a priority SV is shockingly disagreeing with, and I cannot understand that the government can continue with this. I would also like to point out that I believe that the policy currently being pursued is extremely family indispensable. As far as you can, you try to deprioritize and deny people who have either been divided into wars or have found love across borders, their desire to be together as a family. It simply doesn't matter; they've made nothing else wrong but maybe being on different sides of a boundary. Then I will inform you that SV votes for the Workers' Party's proposal that the representative Boehler was up here and explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2382	It has sometimes been quite a good debate, I think, and the level of the matter is probably not really much to complain about. So that's a good starting point for looking forward. This issue of age testing has been the subject here today as well, and the Council of State confirms that this should in some way benefit the doubt. But then the Council of State further shows that there is agreement that responsibility for this should be transferred to the Institute of Public Health from 1 January 2017. However, there is also a consensus that new and better and more accurate methods should be developed for this. It gets a bit too wretched, so I ask the Council of State to be more specific on the following: When can we expect to get feedback on when these better, more accurate methods are used? I think it would be good if the Council of State could clarify it. Still on legal certainty: I'm concerned – many people are concerned about whether legal certainty is adequately ensured. It should also be a little worried about daily and assure yourself. So I hope that the Council of State can be quite clear in its assurance to Stortinget here now, that the legal security of asylum seekers will be safeguarded as expected. The Council of State should give a clear assurance of this in the Grand Duchy today, when she is here and has the opportunity to do so. So just an explanation of vote. We've talked about this before. We have not received any feedback on this. Therefore, the Workers' Party will now support SV's proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox We will also support SV's proposal No. Nineteen in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2393	First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the Council of State on the job gave a response on Sørlanden. Some of the frustration expressed down there is a frustration, among other things. is a case-by-case procedure. They experience that they have been sitting here for a very long time, they have not received an answer to their applications, and they do not know what is going to happen. So I'd like to challenge the Council of State to say something about how development has been in terms of processing time. I read online that it took about ten months, at least, before someone could expect a response. The Council of State was also involved in its statement, that one expected one to have a response in 2017. But has time gone up, or has it gone down? I ask the Council of State to answer that question. Some of that frustration is about the fact that there is no child protection competence in the receptions. It's fragmented healthcare services. Local authorities have serious variations in how they manage to deal with the major challenges posed by the health status of some of these young people. At the end of the debate, I would like to invite the Council of State to reflect on this. What does the Council of State intend to do to dampen the unrest and hopelessness of these young people? I expect that the Council of State will formally respond to UDI in the form of letters on the concerns they have raised, but I think it might be interesting if the Council of State could say something to the Stortinget also about what she thinks is important in terms of the responsibility of the Council of State for the fact that unrest and hopelessness do not grow in the receptions of lonely asylum seekers. Finally, I just want to say that I share the concern of the representative Lauvås, who also mentioned Helga Pedersen – as far as I remember – in his statement, and that concerns the legal security of these people. It is not just the representative of Lauvås, us and SV who are concerned about it. It is also the concern of asylum seekers. There will be reports that they are deeply concerned about ensuring legal certainty. So I would also like to ask the Council of State to give guarantees here to the Storting that international laws and conventions are followed, and that this practice is conducted within the principles of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2404	From 1 January 2016 onwards, the Public Health Institute was given national professional responsibility and is now working on the methods used to be scientifically based, objective and with as little discretion as possible. Just when they come back with any changes, I can't say here and now. I have to get back to that. As I said, no one else has found any other methods that are better. We use the best that is, and then we get to hope that it's possible to find something that's even more accurate. To that with legal certainty: I will answer a written question from the representative of Lauvås, so I will come back to it. But I assume that the laws and regulations that apply, related to this, are followed in these matters. I would also like to add that the discussion of legal certainty is a discussion that has been in this area for many years, even under changing governments, and which is often put at the head of difficult individual matters, where people are in a very difficult situation and are going to be sent out of the country. With regard to the processing time, it will automatically go down as a result of getting to Norway, so just how long it is now, I can't answer on a standing footing, but of course the representative Kari Henriksen can get answers to that later. In the case of unrest and hopelessness, this must be followed up by the UDI vis-à-vis the individual receptions. In addition, it is gratifying that last year we strengthened the child-care competence of the receptions. We're going to do that next year as a result of the budget agreement. It'll help. However, the starting point is that young people have come to Norway with a hope of staying. They are granted limited permits, and that is a challenge for them. At the same time, it is important that we conduct the strict and responsible policies adopted and follow this up as closely as possible within those frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2415	I have noticed proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party: ‘The government asks the government to enter into negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo so that the joint venture in Oslo Sør or Søndre Nordstrand city can be extended for 10 years until it expires in 2017.’ I am a little uncertain about the extent to which this will have budgetary implications, so at least I cannot recommend voting in favour of this proposal as it stands here. That being said, the situation that both Jan Bøhler and I have described is alarming. This may be the area in Norway where there is a greater risk of parallel communities emerging. It's gone a little under the radar for a little too many years. I would therefore ask the government to study proposal No. 4, from the Labour Party, and make a conclusion on how the intention of this proposal by the Workers' Party can be transformed, or be the basis of an activity vis-à-vis the Municipality of Oslo, so that this comes on the agenda, and that a contact can be established between the Government and the Municipality of Oslo on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2425	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2431	There is no doubt that increased area bet and continued working with it would have been important, and it also had the proposals that SV is promoting today for increased bets on, among other things. exit programmes and work against extremism host – as the Progress Party votes down. So to this with legal certainty and laws and regulations: yes, I also assume that you follow the laws and regulations. The question is whether the rules and laws are sufficiently secure, and whether they ensure equal legal certainty for asylum seekers who come to this country, and I am probably more in doubt there. Therefore, SV believes that we should have an asylum court and not an administrative body as we have today. So finally, I noticed that the representative Myhre in his intervention in the city named minorities who have lived here for generations, like not being in their own country. Well, they're as much 'in their own country' as we were born here. They also have representatives in this room, and they are as Norwegian and as much in their own country as Myhre and I are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2440	A brief explanation of vote: from the debate today, the Left will support proposal No. 10, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2445	The Christian People's Party also wants to support proposal No. 10, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2450	I'm a little in doubt if I remembered to say it instead, but the Central Party supports proposal No. 18. Proposal No. 19 and proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2455	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2-4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2497	I would like to thank you for processing all three of these balancing propositions. First I'll say that in the Innst. 133 S is a small error in the first version of the setting. It says that it is the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind the IV-V recommendations, but the right thing is that it is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. In the latest version of the configuration, it will be fixed. In addition, the Committee has no comments on the proposal from the Government to any of the proposals, with the exception of two aspects. In the municipal field, the Labour Party has a note on the transfer of non-used assets, which I believe they are doing well for themselves, and in the case of the Ministry of Justice, the Socialist Left Party has a note that goes on funds that have been pledged to asylum and refugee policy. I also assume that they do well for their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2506	The evening is still young. . It is not very common to debate the government’s proposals for new aging. There is usually a technical adjustment to the current year’s budget at the end of the year. But then the government has suggested something quite unusual in the new age of the year. Yes, it is so unusual that the government itself specifies that this is a one-off case. For what is it that you propose? The Government proposes to add the words «can be transferred» to the municipalities and county municipalities in connection with the means of discretion. Why does the government propose this? The funds will be transferred to next year, so that they can be cut and used to finance the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Not only does the government use record oil money, in both 2016 and 2017, but when there is money left over at the end of the year, the government will also provide that money. This has been proposed by the government without the budgetary partners, the Christian People's Party and the Left, knowing about it, if we are to believe what is written in today's business. This shows a government that is completely incapable of prioritizing. The fact that the Progress Party is resorting to such measures in order to bring the budgets together is not so surprising. But the fact that a Right-Leaded Municipal Ministry, with former fiscal politician Jan Tore Sanner as the responsible State Council, has the right to propose such budgetary bridging, is almost unbelievable. The Labour Party is going to vote against the proposed change by the government, and if there was something left of the financial responsibility in the Right, they would also vote against it. But it's just to record that the Progress Party has both the hand on the steering wheel and the foot on the accelerator in the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2517	SV is also involved in the proposal and the comment that Helga Pedersen was now up to and explained. We share the views she had. In the case of the Ministry of Justice – and the change there – we warn what we are going to propose when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with its amendment proposal. We do that because the money is saved into the Ministry of Justice's budget. It is money that is being saved because there are fewer refugees coming to Norway. There the government has said that due to lower arrivals it has led to savings of 1.4 billion. kr. The government has decided to redispatch 500 million. of these means of strengthening humanitarian efforts in the neighbourhoods. The UN has recently asked – as they say – for a total of 190 billion. DKK for emergency aid in 2019. There has never been a similar need for humanitarian aid, and that need is now present. The government's redispatching a little – that's good – but you should redispatch the whole sum. Now there are people in tents north of Greece, they can't move on. Norway is doing a little — almost no country is doing some of the world's things. They've got wool blankets and hardly any food. This is money that could have been used there and then to relieve acute and grievances, including in European countries. There is a need in many areas of the world now, even before Christmas, for emergency aid in refugee camps and in the acute refugee disaster in Syria, in Yemen, in South Sudan, in Mali – in very many areas of the world there is an urgent need. And there are organizations that are able to use these funds in the emergency phase you are in now, just as they are able to use the funds that the government has proposed to grant to this, because there is so much need. That's why SV comes when we deal with the Proposition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prop. 23 S for 2016–2017, to propose an estimated 700 million. kr left over is disposed of on a cap. 163, Naudhilfe, humanitarian aid and human rights. We propose that the funds be used to assist refugees in Syria and the neighbourhoods and to remedy the very acute situation of refugees in southern Europe, among others. in Greece and Italy, in addition to providing additional funding to organisations working in other areas where the humanitarian situation is particularly acute, such as Yemen and South Sudan. It is underlined that ‘the funds must be allocated to organisations that are able to receive these additional appropriations before the end of 2016’. And we think that's possible. The proposal will be promoted in connection with that proposition. That's why we're voting for the withdrawals in this area, but we're going back to how the money should be disposed of, when the Foreign Affairs Committee deals with its proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2528	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2544	In the absence of the rapporteur – he is in Strasbourg – I have the honour to say something on the occasion of the case. Since 2001, Norway has cooperated with the EU and Switzerland to facilitate market access for developing countries to our markets. This cooperation implies that the parties have common rules of origin and documentation requirements for the GSP scheme in Norway, Switzerland and the EU. In addition, in the GSP scheme, input materials can be used in the production of both Norway, the EU and Switzerland, without the GSP countries losing their special customs treatment on exports to the EU and Switzerland. The background to this case is that in 2010 the EU decided to change the system of evidence of origin. The change involves a simplification of the system by self-certification by the exporter after first registering in a new computer system. The agreement we are now going to ratify involves an adjustment to this so that the arrangement can continue as before. The new system involves important simplifications for exporters, better overview, control and lower costs of customs processing. The Agreement also ensures that Norwegian input materials can be used in the production of products that may end up in the EU or Switzerland, in line with producers in these countries. When the agreement has to be approved by Stortinget under the Constitution § 26, the reason is that it involves annual participant expenditure. The expenditure shall be covered within the applicable allocation of the customs office. Let me stress that the agreement does not involve the transfer of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2573	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-23, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 24, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that where there is doubt about the age of asylum seekers who claim to be minors, they will always benefit from the doubt so that they will be categorised as under 18 years of age.’ The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2614	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide amended housing aid legislation to ensure that the housing aid is at the level and volume of the user equivalent to the level in 2009.’» Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a conversion of the growth grant and the metropolitan grant so that it is granted as an appropriation to the municipalities concerned, without any contribution to the income of all municipalities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2636	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the housing aid legislation to adjust the different elements of the scheme each year in order to keep track of the income limits and the development of housing prices.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2653	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9, 11–16, 20, 22 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the necessary strengthening of diffi in order to ensure that new environmental requirements for public acquisitions are implemented in practice.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a co-financing scheme for profitable IT projects in the municipalities according to the model of the already established scheme in the country.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a temporary stoppage of the sending of young asylum seekers with a refusal in cases where asylum seekers have declared to be minors but have been adjusted to be over-yeared by the alienation authorities until a new age assessment has been carried out by the Public Health Institute.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain the possibility of cash withdrawals from payment cards for asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a revision of the system of resilient regions and regional and industrial development so that the funds are delimited from being used in oil and gas-related development.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes in the budgeting and allocation of funds to the Sameting in its own proposal in the spring, similar to those made for the local economy, as a basis for the establishment of the budget for the Sameting year after.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message to review the language and culture of the country in order to make this language visible and to strengthen the position of culture in the Norwegian community.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for enhanced work for the space population, with particular emphasis on the children’. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set requirements for climate and environmental competence in municipal administration.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the system of grants for apprentices so that non-profit and non-commercial municipalities can receive increased grants for apprentices.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose ways of extending the State co-financing mechanism of resource-intensive services to citizens over 67 years of age.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2724	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the services for which the municipalities are responsible, as well as that central parts of public legislation are also applicable to private institutions.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2742	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the provision from June 2014 that children with limited residence in Norway should not be resident in foster homes or in a municipality.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2759	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the work carried out in all State activities is subject to concrete requirements for the use of apprentices at least in accordance with the requirements of State Building and diffi’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2776	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 and 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the implementation of an independent supervisory system for asylum reception operations in the revised budget for 2017.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government, through the development and availability of e-options, to ensure that visually impaired persons and others who need them are given the opportunity to vote electronically to ensure that everyone can participate in secret elections.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2800	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to enter into negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo so that the joint venture in Oslo Sør or Søndre Nordstrand city can be extended for 10 years until it expires in 2017.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2817	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assume that all municipalities can apply for grants from the funds under cap on an equivalent basis. 550 item 66 Simplification of field management — Test scheme.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e2834	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for the use of common ICT solutions across the public sector, across agencies and levels of government.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a permanent solution to ensure that the victims do not lose their right to or receive less housing support as a result of the default reform.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e4443	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e6646	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e7287	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e8088	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on IV and V. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e8102	It shall be heard on the position of the Committee in relation to I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-15.ana.ud384e8745	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
