ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e28	The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, now takes the seat. The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e38	Then I have the pleasure, on behalf of Frank Bakke-Jensen and myself, to make a proposal to extend the access to the area of the quotad fish for king crabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e43	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e48	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a national action plan on hepatitis C work aimed at eradicating hepatitis C in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e53	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e69	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e78	All we're going to do in our country depends on us being at work, and that we have qualifications and education to take on new jobs, not least in terms of the technological and green shift we're facing. Compared to other countries, we are well positioned, but it is a poor standard to compare with developments in Norway because Norwegian trends are not promising. This is about a bigger picture in the labour market than what is the result of a falling oil price, which has hit parts of our country. The vacancy is the highest in 20 years. The share of the labour market is the lowest in excess of 20 years and one third of the population is out of work. Although our population continues to grow, over the past half of the year, there have been 13 000 fewer employed in Norway, 26 000 fewer in the private sector. The situation among young people is particularly worrying. The proportion of young people employed has not been so low in more than ten years. Then there's a group that has traditionally been high in employment. There are men in the 30-35s who are in a negative development. This group had 5 pst. outside the labour market in the 1970s to 1980s. Now that's over 15 pst. The government expects the same high unemployment rate in 2017 as in 2016. At the same time, they cut a package of measures that was designed for the situation, which is expected to continue. The budgetary material describes the development with an increasing proportion of the population out of work. On page 22 of the national budget: ‘This development appears to continue in the future’. I think that reminds me of the government's inaction in some underlying developments in our labour market, which are serious – for the sustainability of our welfare system, for people, especially young people. The Prime Minister has previously stated that unemployment in Norway is low, and my question is: Does the Prime Minister still believe that unemployment is low, and does she have a strategy to reverse developments where an increasing proportion is out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e94	I agree with the representative Gahr Støre that it is worrying when the employment rate in Norway goes down. In the long term, the Norwegian economy is dependent on an increase in the employment rate. We're going to spend more money on a part of the population that's getting older, by hopefully having even more people at work and becoming even more productive in the years that come. It's a demanding challenge. This is also why this government has focused on what causes people falling out of work. That is why we have made several proposals that are linked to giving skills and knowledge to those who are outside or in danger of being outside. That's why, in the Bondevik II government, we established what was then called the New Chance, which is a competence for people in working life who lack basic skills, and which we have increased significantly during this period as well. That's why we're taking seriously the integration policy, because we see that it's important to get even more of those who come here, faster into work. Therefore, this budget provides for significant increases in measures that help people to get to work faster. One of the important reforms we are now implementing is, among other things: to ensure that those who have higher education from their home country but do not receive recognition in Norway are still entitled to further training in Norway, which will make it better for many people who feel in a limbo situation without rights. The decline in the employment rate is nothing new. The peak year in Norway was 2008. Since 2008, the employment rate has fallen by about 40%. 4.8 pst. 3.3 pst. of which this happened before 2013. That is why the leader of LO on 7 January 2016 said: ‘We have not been able to increase employment as the population grows after the financial crisis. We have a deficit of 100,000 – 150,000 jobs today." This is a development that we have seen in the years since 2008. The government takes this seriously and takes action to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e108	Yes, it is worth listening to the LO leader in this area and in other areas regarding policy proposals that work. I believe to prove that during the four years that the government has been in charge, these underlying features have not been taken seriously. On the other hand, what has been taken quite into account is the use of oil money. The budget documents give quite an illustrative description of how high oil money consumption has resulted in little job creation – contributing in this area. In four years, the government has increased the use of oil money by 100 billion. kr. It's more than that increased for eight years with the previous government. In the national budget, the government clearly states that future governments can forget such a phase-in – 35 million. SEK plus 2016, expected 20 billion. kr plus 2017. Then it says to read that for 2018 and the years after, you can count on spending 4 billion. kr more. So it's an emergency stop. The question then is: What are the prime minister's thoughts about the scope of action she leaves to the government that is going to take over after her in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e117	I believe that in a period when we got the biggest oil price shock we had in very, very many decades, in an economy that was more oil-dependent than ever, where a larger share of our real economy was associated with oil and therefore the effects of the Norwegian economy were greater, it was quite natural that we spent more money. I guess the Workers' Party also meant that, because in their alternative state budget last year, they also spent 20 billion dollars. kr more of the oil money. Then they had some very destructive tax increases for Norwegian business, which would contribute to fewer jobs in the future, not to more jobs in the future. So there's a difference of 4 billion. kr, between what Jonas Gahr Støre had as an arrangement for this year, and what we have as an arrangement for this year. Then it's important to say: the Cappelen Committee has said that fiscal policy has been expansive, and it has dampened the decline in the economy. It would have been a greater decline if we hadn't used our space of action now. And letting people go unnecessarily free is actually the root of a lot of evil – and also of poor growth skills in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e124	Follow-up questions will be raised – first, Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e129	I record that the Prime Minister did not answer the question, but she at least made it clear that people go unnecessarily free, are not desirable and are not lucky. This is not a discussion about unemployment in the last few months. It has been a bit up or down, or if you look bright or dark in the future. What it's all about is that it's for example. in Rogaland, now about 13,244 unemployed, and that we are also asking for responsibility for these. In this situation, the government has chosen not to use any secure cards, they have left to increase the number of study places, they ignore potable projects at the University of Stavanger, the University of Agder and the University of Bergen, where one could have started maintenance and rehabilitation. The government's action package has shrunk by 1 billion. kr, i.e. almost 20 pst. Compared to last year, while writing in their own national budget, unemployment seems to be continuing. Why does the Prime Minister cut the package of measures by 1 billion? When they say at the same time that developments regarding the number of people without work will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e138	It is certainly a maintenance project in Norway that we have not given money to, but we have indeed given a lot of money to maintenance projects. Now we're cleaning up the hospitals in the West and in the South, we're building a new hospital in Stavanger, we're building roads, we're asphalting, we're paying 750 million. kr to the municipalities in these areas in order to enable them to carry out the necessary maintenance and to do something about the maintenance of municipal buildings. So the package we have now is equal to the size of the one we had in the budget last year. Then there will be a revised national budget for spring, where we will see how the development of the economy is. We have chosen a budget line that focuses on both work and activity in the areas that are heavily affected, at the same level as in the budget last year. In addition, we continue to work on the long-term transition and have many of the welfare measures that ensure that those with a low level of employment are better connected to the future. That's why our medicine is a good medicine for development, and I think we've been documented this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e147	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e152	As the Prime Minister says, it is extremely important to target measures against those regions where unemployment is greatest. We also see that there is a crisis that affects some industries and some regions in particular. That is why the Christian People's Party has been pleased with the package of measures that has been included, and we have been with them and strengthened them for the current year, and also in the revised budget. And we have already put on the block that the fight against unemployment is becoming important for the Christian People's Party in the negotiations on the budget for next year. I also noticed that one in the rhetoric and in the exchange of words spoke a little past each other in terms of the size of unemployment, because there are two ways to measure unemployment: the SSB labour force survey says that it is approx. 5 pst. Unemployment, while Nav's registered number of unemployed is about. 2.8 pst. The way a counter counts is also important for the way in which one implements the measures, so I would like to hear a little about how the Prime Minister thinks, what she is basing on, and what is important to take into account when looking at the measures to be taken to combat unemployment and to strengthen employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e162	It's absolutely right that we've never had such a big difference between the measured so-called AKU unemployment and the registered unemployment, and it's after all a lot of researchers who ask why it's like that. What's the background for that? Some of it is enough that some young people who in periods would start working instead of taking education now take education. That's good, because we know that if you go out too early in your life and have too little skills, your relationship to the world of work will also be worse in the future. But it's still undecided sizes. We assume that the unemployment rate is probably higher overall in Norway, and that we should have more employed than we have today, more than what the registered unemployment figures show. But it's also true that there's probably a large proportion of students who don't get part-time jobs today, and who have challenges, who turn out in the AKU numbers, but don't turn out in the registered unemployment figures. Now it's probably a little bit higher than 2.8 pst. It's absolute unemployment, and it's lower now because we have a high share of action. So the total registered unemployment is probably a little bit above 3 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e171	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e176	In order to create jobs, the Center Party believes that an industrial policy is needed for the whole country. The draft budget for the government is a district enemy. The government cut off support for broadband expansion and does not implement national transport plan in port, fairway and racial protection. Not even on investment into national roads, which is the government's leading hub, the transport plan will be reached. In addition, this year, agriculture also receives new tax incentives that specifically frame young farmers who invest, and those who have the most expensive flow in Norway will receive even more expensive flows next year. Where there are bets, e.g. on forest car roads, this is financed by cuts in other forestry activities. So the business policy of this government is so that even what's good is bad. In concrete terms, how is the government going to contribute to job creation in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e185	If you look at the map of Norway today, and look at the areas traditionally defined as District Norway, they go as never before. The availability in Troms is the lowest registered since 1978. Upland and Hedmark have extremely low leave. Sogn and Fjordane are the lowest of all. So it can't be that everything is bad and difficult in District Norway – if it goes wrong with this government. It's natural that we focus on the areas where unemployment is greatest, the areas that need the most help. But in addition, we look at the long-term to make it more competitive. We have a massive expansion of infrastructure. For example, in the case of national road appropriations, it is assumed that North Norway received 11 pst. to get 21 pst. of the national road appropriations in 2017. This means that we are building up the long-term years of transport, which also helps when the jobs are there, the products are also coming out to the markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e192	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e197	Honor the Prime Minister for a good response to the Labour Party's modest presentation of the facts and the way the Labour Party is now trying to overinterpret the opinion that they can almost eliminate the damage caused by the oil price drop. The Prime Minister is also entitled to the government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, conduct a very offensive and targeted nutrition and employment policy with both acute and long-term measures. Nevertheless, it is never so small but: it does not seem that the Prime Minister and the government have taken on board the fact that what is good for the small businesses, almost without exception, is also good for the large ones. It's not necessarily the opposite. A cut in the pre-seed fund scheme, the Siva incubator programme and the broadband code system. The government does not follow the Left's proposal to introduce tax incentives for private investors in start-ups. So the question is, why is it cut that is the review tone of the state budget proposal in measures that make it easier to start new businesses and take the risk the founders are taking, on which the community is totally dependent?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e206	The total picture is that we're increasing from 2.4 billion to 2.8 billion. NOK – from 2013 we have increased to SEK 2.8 billion. NOK 400 million. more on innovation and incentives. There'll be a little bit different between the different schemes. We've prioritised some arrangements, and then we'll probably have a discussion of what other priorities other parties on the Storing are doing. But overall, we're still lifting these instruments. One of the instruments that now turns out to be absolutely the most successful is one that the Right and Left have been working together for many years on the Storting. It's the SkattenFUNN system, which we got implemented in the Bondevik II administration. Provenance is increasing significantly, i.e. how much money we have to spend on that scheme, because now, with the improvements made under this government, it becomes more and more popular for newly formed companies, but also for established companies. So in sum, we're doing something. The exact capital incentive schemes are one thing we work more on, but three months was too short for us to find good solutions that also carry within an ESA code.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e215	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e220	From the second quarter of 2015 to the second quarter of 2016, there was a decrease of 22,000 persons employed in the 15-24 age group. To remedy this, the government comes into the budget with what the government calls a ‘new youth effort’. For it they have granted – hold the breath – 30 million. kr. It's a youth effort that's very little specifically described in the budget, and it's terribly hard to see that 30 million. kr shall be a sum and a measure capable of reversing developments which have gone so strongly in the negative direction. It's not the new youth guarantee we need, it's not the obvious rights fixation that we'd need for the youngest who's out of work. The Prime Minister really wants us to believe that 30 million. kr extra will solve this problem? Or is it that the government has no answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e225	At least the government has now provided an answer to what has been the criticism, among other things. Fafo has come with the old youth guarantees, those introduced under the previous government. They have found that those guarantees do not meet the needs of young people for follow-up and services. And so we have said: then we have to take that criticism seriously – old SV policy doesn't work, let's try a little more Right Policy, and it's actually to have clearer and clearer follow-up of the individual. Now you get the right to follow up after eight weeks, you have to do it, and you have to be able to measure it and see that everyone does it. There are clearer and clearer rights. Then it's clear that 30 million. For those who are to follow the youth directly — the measures are already in the Action Communication — and ensure that we use the measures available to help or cooperate with the county councils in order to get some young people back to school to complete a training course that will make them better accessible and better equipped in the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e232	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e238	I have recorded that the Prime Minister and the government have recently made early efforts in school. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this. The Christian People's Party has prioritised early efforts. We've had 1 700 more teachers in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade. The challenge is that if the government's draft budget is adopted without change, 600 of these will disappear until next year. The Education Association has said that several teachers are the most important thing for them. Teachers around the country point out that they do not have enough time for each individual student. Today we have 37 000 elephants who receive special education. There is no goal to cut into special education, but it is a goal to reduce the need for special education. We know that if we succeed in getting more teachers to school, this is the most targeted option for the vulnerable students. Yes, it's the action that takes the best of those who need it the most in school. Getting more teachers allows us to get two teachers in some classes, or we can divide the class. My question is: does the Prime Minister worry that if this budget proposal on which we are now based is adopted, there will be 600 teachers in the four lowest classes? There will also be 600 fewer teachers in the youth school. The challenge to the Prime Minister is: How does this rhyme when the government itself points to just how important it is with early efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e247	We have followed up the consensus we had last year related to extra effort in school. It was clear that it would have an effect for the current year and not a foundation every year – that it would only have a half-year effect. In this way, there has been a clear and clear premise for the budgetary work we had in common. With regard to the 600 jobs in high school — what we call late work, repair work — it was an experiment that was to be carried out and that was limited in time. It was also clearly expressed when it was introduced by the red-green government. That we are now liquidating it and instead increasing early efforts, I believe is a right priority. We know that many of the problems that arise in high school don't occur there. They occur earlier because you have gaps in teaching. What we think is important is that the local authorities' obligation to work for students who are attached to it should be reinforced. It shall be reinforced and made clear. The principal means for the municipalities are through the free income, which is increasing by 4 billion. kr in the year's budget, in order to follow up and contribute to, inter alia. strengthening the school. We need to have a clear obligation to provide short-term and intensive support for students who are following, and that is an obligation that is currently not sufficiently clearly regulated in the law. That's what we put money into the budget. There is an annual impact of approx. 350 million. kr and is a big bet. We're more concerned about telling the municipalities what they're going to achieve in terms of goals than just how they're going to achieve the goal, and that they're getting stronger implementation requirements. Some children also need a different type of follow-up than two teachers in the classroom can give because they are struggling with other challenges. This actually enables the school and the municipalities to target better than to create a common system that will apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e258	It's true, as the Prime Minister says, that there's nothing that goes beyond the budget line from there last year, but the consequences of that government have been presented are that there are 600 fewer teachers in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grades and 600 fewer teachers in the youth school. I don't think it's possible to succeed in early school efforts without more teachers. So it's true that we have two possibilities. We have the possibility, as the Christian People's Party has chosen, to earmark means to multiple teacher settings, because we believe it is absolutely necessary. Or we could bet that the municipalities prioritize this through the funds they get in the municipality, but then it might be wise to have a norm for the municipalities. The Christian People's Party has put forward a very good proposal where we propose a standard of 16 elephants per teacher. Is there any government party considering supporting? – that is my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e263	We're not generally trailers of a norm. We are concerned that there will be enough teachers and learning capacity, but also other help measures in the school. I think many of us who have gone through school as dyslexics know that it's not necessarily the case that an extra teacher would have solved that problem -- maybe someone with a different kind of competence would have done that. That doesn't prevent a teacher from having that kind of competence, but I think the school is also good at seeing this. I think the most important thing we do is break up some of the special educational environments that are too far away from the students – often you have to have a diagnosis before you get help – and move the resources closer into school everyday life, so that when you experience someone hanging out, you get help from those who have special skills maybe on the very challenges you see. I really think that the municipalities are able to make these priorities when we make the legal requirements stronger and increase the income of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e270	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Anders Tyvand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e275	Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Knowledge often say that the school needs better teachers, but although I think it is great with a solid effort at continuing education, I do not think that the problems in school are primarily about the teachers not being good enough. I think it's about the teachers not having enough time, and it's also the teachers' clear message to us politicians: they don't have enough time to give each student the follow-up they need. That's why I think the most important thing we can do is give teachers enough time for every student. So I want to ask the Prime Minister: when there is a math teacher alone in a classroom, with the responsibility for 24 wild and completely different six-year-olds, someone who can hardly count to ten, and others who already understand both the plus and the minus, and she has trouble getting the time to give each student the adapted training they need – what will that teacher benefit most from? Is it a colleague to share responsibility with, or is there more study points in math?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e282	I have had the pleasure of meeting math teachers in continuing education who tell me how wonderful it is to have professional replenishment, which tells me how learning new ways and methods to teach – perhaps especially to reach the groups they have not completely managed to catch with the methods they have used – has been good for them, and how good the community is. I therefore believe that continuing education for teachers is something we are going to systematically do more in all years to come, and I am happy that this government is really delivering on the promise we have made on this. It's important to be able, and this isn't just a discussion about multiple study scores in math. A lot of high school students meet teachers who don't have math credits at all. That's why it's important to raise it, and we'll probably see that on some of the math results we have. I'm recording that 70 pst. teachers a few years ago said they want more continuing education. It would make them better teachers and better able to meet it varied the class environment. This does not prevent more teachers from doing well, but it is also important that the competence of teachers allows them to be able simply to motivate all students in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e289	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e294	What most teachers say they want more of is time — time to see each student, time to help those who are struggling, time to make sure that everyone is well trained. That's why I think there were a lot of people who just got a little shock when the government in the state budget just cut off the support for 600 teachers across the country. The Prime Minister says that it was because it was a temporary arrangement, but the reason why it was temporary – and it is quite clear in the presentation from 2013 – was that it was the beginning of an escalation, not a scheme to be cut for other bets. This has a concrete effect: in Oslo 58 teachers are cut, in Bergen 11 teachers are cut, in the town of the Minister of Education, Porsgrund, 8 teachers are cut, in Stavanger 16 teachers are cut, where they have already cut 74 teachers in the last three years. Right school politician in Stavanger says she's getting hurt in the stomach of these cuts in teacher positions, and my question is whether the Prime Minister is also getting hurt in the stomach that teaching positions are being cut across the country, in a school that needs to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e299	This was a pilot scheme for hundreds of municipalities in the country that had poor results in some subjects, especially in mathematics, in high school. It was proposed by the red-green government, but we have financed it throughout the trial period that it was about. This is late effort, it's not early effort. This government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left of the Stortinget, has contributed to the creation of more than 1,000 new teaching years at the lowest class stages. We believe that it is not a point to designate schemes of that kind over a long time. And it's completely random whether it's the same municipalities that work in a few years and still have that money. We believe that we should now concentrate on the largest new school effort on early interventions – not on selecting 100 municipalities to receive exceptional grants, which were meant to be a pilot project at the time. I have not recorded that the Workers' Party has at any time prioritised several posts in its alternative budgets during the years they have now been in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e306	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e312	I think it's a little sad that the Prime Minister believes that late efforts can't be early efforts for those students who go to high school. That's how early we're going to get through school if there's something we're struggling with. That said, there is very little – or hardly any – research on the effect of getting the 6-year-olds into school. Only the Economic Institute and the SSB have done a study, which shows that the effect has not been positive or negative. It has not led to better grades, it has not had an impact on choice of professional or study specialisation, and it has not affected implementation. In 2003, the requirement for two pedagogues by 18 students was removed, and no one has an overview of the number of teachers per student in the first class today. I wonder what the Prime Minister intends to do to get an overview of how many students per teacher there are actually at the first stage, and what measures will be taken to get the best possible range of toys and learning for the very least.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e321	In cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this government has now provided 1000 permanent teaching positions for the lowest stages. So they're permanent, they're pasted and carried on. This is perhaps the most important effort to raise early efforts, in addition to what we are now proposing, to make the legal rules clearer, so that we can move the resources to help those who are starting to wear and who are not attached. I think that's the most important bet, and we're going to keep saying that. It is true that school start-ups for six-year-olds were introduced with different types of motives. When school starts for 6-year-olds were introduced – and then I was actually a staging representative, so I remember well – there were two different types of motives. It was Right, we wanted to create a better school and more knowledge. So someone thought this was a way to make sure that you took out a full year's school of kindergartens and get better babysitting on, and that's why you had to play more than first-class learning. Luckily, you've repented. Now it's learning that's in focus from the first class.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e328	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e333	The Prime Minister says she wants a school where students who need help can get it without having a diagnosis, and can get it from staff who may not be teachers, but have a different kind of competence. Nevertheless, enough people experience that everyday life is such that they have to look up specialist for a specialist to just get a diagnosis, and that means they meet a lot of professional people at all stages to get this diagnosis. When they are finally given a decision to receive special education, it is so-called non-qualified who sits at the other end and is to conduct the teaching. That's not how we in the left want to have it. We want the students to meet teachers, meet competent staff. We want it to be that way that you can get the help you need when you need it, without having to pursue that diagnosis. What I'm asking is, what does the Prime Minister think we have to do with the organization in school today to achieve this, to get students to avoid a diagnosis in order to get help for something they need help with here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e338	I think what we are doing in the state budget now, to signal that there is going to be a bill with stronger commitments for the municipalities in the future to strengthen the obligation to intervene and help, and to follow up with funds in the budget, perhaps one of the most important things. We have to expect municipalities to choose to organise their resources according to local circumstances, how they can organise themselves as best they can, but now the legal requirements are going to be considerably stronger. I think that solving part of this withdrawal for the educational extraordinary help, whether it's psychological services, or whether it's logoped services, or anything else, and moving it closer into school, is a pretty important part of it. Not least, the school must have an answer to: What happens when someone comes after? Many schools say that then they might need some extra help, and then it has to be more flexible than it is today. Having to get a diagnosis first often means that it takes several years before you start getting extra help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e343	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e348	I believe that the Prime Minister’s reference to the efforts of the teachers in the country’s secondary schools — a little downgraded to say — as ‘late effort’ will raise awareness among those who are in this reality and who are just trying to make an early effort for many of the young people who are at risk of not completing secondary education. The theory of early action also comes in a strange light when we look at the budget, where there are appropriations for early action put in as free resources in a very tight community structure, which means that we can be absolutely sure that the crowns are not going to go to what the Prime Minister says they should do. I want to go back to the 600 teachers. The government has made sure that we do not get an evaluation of that project by first dropping the follow-up research, and then taking that thread up too late, that follow-up research is not finished. Is it like this that the government is dropping out of the 600 teaching positions without knowing what kind of results they've given at the schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e355	I understand that red-green politicians are concerned about a project that SV was going through in the government, and that was important. But when I say ‘late effort’, it’s because we’re wondering that we haven’t been good enough early enough, and if we get much better in the years ahead to make the early effort good, that kind of action is not necessary. And then it's not like we're just adding money as free money. It is announced that there will be a tightening of the legal requirements of the municipalities, and it will be quite unnatural to have earmarked schemes at the same time as you have strict legal requirements for how to follow up. Of course, that legal requirement will guide resources against the school and against the measures to help. We think, as I said, making sure that you get help faster early in school, that you don't feel like a failure arena, but instead it feels like a master arena, maybe one of the most important things we do to make it more superfluous with special educational help later in the school run, and that we get more into where countries that have a smaller drop-off, too, are, if you follow up better early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e360	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e365	We're in the middle of a big train strike that affects thousands of people, especially in the eastern region. Drivers will have the security of good and safe training, regardless of the type of train company operating on the line. I will not ask the Prime Minister to comment on the strike itself, but I would like to point out that, among other things. is the result of an uncertainty created by the red tape and outsourcing to which the government is now placing itself on the Norwegian railway. Through the creation of Bane NOR, a new railway directorate and three new state companies, the government contributes to the red tape of Norwegian railways. At the same time, the NSB is stripped for material and ticketing systems. The three new companies will take care of it. In other words, the NSB is severely weakened and everything is facilitated for Chinese, Dutch and Swedish train companies to compete on Norwegian rail. Before a single change is made, more than 175 million have been used. only to external consultants to prepare the reorganisation itself. But the challenge for Norwegian railways is not about organisation. A competitive outlay does not solve any of the major challenges in Norwegian rail. Don't get cheaper tickets, don't get more double tracks and don't get more precise trains. So the question is, why try to fix something that's not broken? What does the government really intend to achieve with this red tape of Norwegian railways, except to strip the NSB for tasks, except to set up a number of new companies, not to create insecurity among employees and not to get a new director's board of directors who get even more pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e370	This government overcomplies with the national transport plan on the rail side. We have a strong commitment both in the area of maintenance and in the area of investment. At the same time, we have seen the need to modernise. Some of the priorities made by the railway, we have done in cooperation with the Storting, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we have also done so on the issue of rail reform. We have said that we want better management of the sector, see results, and we believe that there is an opportunity to get better services. So it's not like we didn't do this. In fact, the Bondevik II government made a competitive outing on the Gjøvik track. NSB won. And what did we experience? Better train sets, more take-offs, more punctuality, more service orientation towards users. That was the result of the one outsourcing. There were proposals for several competitive outsourcings, but then the centre party entered the government offices and stopped it, and thus there was no more punctuality, better trainsets or the results obtained by the Gjøvikbanen users from the competitive outsourcing. I think the NSB is able to win in competition with others. They've shown it before that they've managed to do, but we've made a neat structure, and it's therefore that right in a conversion and a change, there's some expense associated with that reorganisation, but I think it's way too early to pass some judgment. It could be that Marit Arnstad has to eat in itself these words, and maybe we'll experience that this reform is just helping us get a more modern and better driven rail system in Norway. However, this reform does not remove all the challenges, so the government has also prioritised considerably more funding for the railways to ensure that we have a better opportunity for rail users to do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e376	Yes, the government has prioritised more funds for the railway. The budget shows that the real growth combined under the Solberg government is exactly what it was for the last four years of the Stoltenberg government. The government is fulfilling the red-green NTP, and that's good, because that's what's needed: it's the construction and electrification of the Norwegian railway we need in the years to come, but we don't need more transport bureaucracy, and we don't need competition outsourcing, and we don't have to start the whole kind of reorganisation that the government is doing here, which is also expensive. We don't need any new state companies, and we don't need a new directorate. So, as I've already said, it's no longer going to be a path, it's not going to be cheaper tickets, it's not going to be more precise trains of this reorganisation. In reality, if one is to be more efficient, there are only three places where costs can be reduced, and it is either on the pensions of the employees or on social arrangements for the employees, or on reduced services for the travellers. And the question is, which of the three areas does the government intend to draw efficiency gains from?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e385	I don't think we're so perfect in railway operations in Norway that it's just the kind of effects that can come out of it. I actually think it's possible to organize better. I think it's possible to get better use of the money on the investment side, get better results. It's not like we've just followed up the red-green national transport plan. With the budget presented, we are at 106.7 p.m. by the national transport plan. Both this and the reward scheme and collective solutions have granted us significantly more than what was foreseen in the National Transport Plan from the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e392	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e397	It is a red tape reform that is underway – with a new directorate, three state companies, several leaders with high wages, and in addition, 175 million have been spent. kr on consultants to reorganise something that works. As you know, the strike is about the training of drivers. Yesterday we could read in the magazine Free Trade Movement that the state can sit with the key to the conflict. By laying down public requirements for education and training, the State may solve this problem. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it will be positive for safety and not least for the recruitment of the driver's profession that there are the same training requirements, regardless of the company for which they are working. In several media, the Minister of Transport announces that there will be a two-week meeting to clarify the educational issue. It is not sustainable that the government will wait two weeks, with subsequent chaos for all the train commuters, to clarify this matter. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to make such a provision immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e406	We have a strike in a legal conflict between tariff partners. It is then natural that a government does not stand and comment on the content and basis of that strike from the pulpit of Storting. The parties have to comment on the details of the conflict and there are parties who need to find solutions. This strike is not a question of what to do, it is a strike on what to do, and it does not involve the authorities at all, and it should not involve the Stortinge in respect of tripartite cooperation. The Railway Authority is responsible for the safety requirements, also related to training, and must therefore have a meeting related to them, inter alia. ensuring the training and safety requirements to be carried out. But it's an ordinary part of what the state does in the work distribution that is. The railway authorities are always responsible for safety, and we are always going to be high on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e413	Eirik Sivertsen - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e418	It is a key objective of the current national transport plan, as presented by the Stoltenberg II Government, to resume the maintenance activities on, among others. railway. Now the government chooses not to resume the maintenance run, but continues the maintenance run on the railway for next year – since the condition will be the same as it is for the current year. This means that there will be no better signalling systems, that there will be no better railing or better tunnels – according to their own budget. The Prime Minister, in his first reply to the representative Arnstad, was concerned about the excellence of the NSB as a good transport company and also won some tenders. New tenders – as part of the rail reform – are now being launched in the first half of 2017. Then the NSB has to go out again and compete. But they have a pension cost in a place between 2 billion. kr and 4 brd. kr which has not been clarified. It will be absolutely essential for the framework conditions under which the NSB will be able to compete and how to be competitive. Does the Prime Minister think that it is the pension costs of the employees to be the basis of competition, or will the Prime Minister clarify to the company the framework conditions on which to compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e425	We're working on questions about how to set the pension scheme in the NSB in the future, and we'll get back to that. When we put out competition, we're going to set quality standards, we're going to set safety requirements – as set by the Railway Authority – and we're going to look at costs, of course. But it is important for us that this reform should lead to better railways, which should lead to more departures. That's why we have, among other things, contributed to the purchase of significant numbers of railway sets in recent years, so that we ensure that we have a good and modern material.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e430	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e435	In 2010, the head of the Railway Agency said that we could face a breakdown within the railway if no significant changes were made. It was very clear speech after five years of red-green rule. By a new majority, the appropriations have increased by approx. 50 pst, and the maintenance has almost doubled compared to the previous government. The slowdown has been reduced in both 2015 and 2016, while the maturity has grown by nearly 1 billion. kr annually when the red-green fell. More money is important, and at the same time we have to think again, and the railway needs renewal. The population is increasing, we are increasing. The railway is also the key to reducing climate emissions in the transport sector. That's why the railway is important, and in combination with increased appropriations we get a renewal that gives more reliable railways and more frequent departures. I want to ask the Prime Minister when and how people will notice the changes that are now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e440	First of all, we are now making some big investment promises in intercity – and also on Bergensbanen and other measures that help us to bring the map down in the long term, it is going to be faster to arrive. Thus, the railway will be more important in the public network to be in the East, and also in the long distances, there will be both time savings and better regularity. In addition, as I said, it has now been purchased significantly with new train sets – with the final guarantee that the State must provide for it – which also help to improve the quality of the journey. But it's going to take time before we're in the port, because over many decades, it's been invested too little in the railways in Norway compared to what the potential is, and what's needed. Of course, as far as rail development is concerned, we give priority to those areas where it will have the most impact on climate emissions as quickly as possible. This means that intercity around Oslo and the nearby paths, for example, around Stavanger and around Bergen will be among the priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e448	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e453	There's something about the selective memory. The red-greens have completely forgotten their sins in government. The left and Christian People's Party, along with the government, have contributed to the reduction and removal, and there was a serious lag in the maintenance of the railway after eight years with the red-green in government. It has been said that this was 1 billion. kr per year they were in government. The left, together with the government, has achieved a great deal in the last three years, for example. to reduce and remove the maintenance seat suspension. In the year's budget, the transport budget is increased by several billions, and that's very good, but at the same time you cut the bicycle bet, from 162 million. NOK 100 million. kr. The collective investment is cut by 300 million. kr, and railway operation and maintenance has also been reduced by nearly 400 million. kr in relation to last year. It's not quite in touch. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Can the Prime Minister suggest how together we can contribute to strengthening the cycling effort, the collective effort and the railway effort, so that our parties together can continue to do very well, even in next year's budget, and that we can actually continue to make a difference from when the red-greens put in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e462	I totally agree that it's not always, when you hear the questions, that you think you're a whole person who remembers what you're down to. But it's going to be the challenge of the red-green parties. I mean, we deliver a lot, and we deliver over the NTP for the railway. However, I am not satisfied. There is a lot we have to do in the years to come to get a good enough rail service in Norway. As far as collective action is concerned, we have put in the follow-up to the reward schemes, and we have spent money on the new urban environment packages. In addition, during the negotiations last year, there was an additional allocation to the collective in what was distributed to the different urban areas, but it was committed to being one year old. So we haven't continued it, and we're going to have to discuss it with our partners at Stortinget. We have followed up on what we have agreements relating to urban environment packages, and not least we are going into some new grips like this. to contribute to planning on Fornebu to get it going soon, for now it takes too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e469	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e474	In the cooperation agreement that the government has, among other things: With the Left, we have our own point – 4 d – which is about child poverty. There are many measures involved, but one of the most important and most specific is the differentiation of parental pay in the SFO and kindergarten. In 2014, the government presented a draft budget that I think the government also admitted was bad on many of the social grips, so we probably spent most of our energy reverse the cuts the government had proposed. In 2015, we received free core time for low-income families for four- and five-year-olds in kindergarten and a differentiated stay payment. In 2016, we had free core time in the three-year-old kindergarten in the budget negotiations, and we had free part-time seats in the SFO. The plan and the agreement were that in 2017 we would also receive income differentiation at SFO – or AKS, as it is called in Oslo. What we see in the budget is a promise to get it in place. Now it's just a model and no money. My question to the Prime Minister is this is point 4(d) of the cooperation agreement. Doesn't the Prime Minister really think it's that good or important, so it's the Left who's going to fight money into that whole point in all the budgets, every single time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e483	We believe that paragraph 4(d) was a good point. We've managed to get to the main part of it. So it says that "the differentiation of parental payment in kindergartens and SFOs is increasing." We've got more than just differentiating the parental payment in kindergartens, in cooperation with the Left. We've even had free core time for those who have absolutely the lowest income, but we haven't put in place such a scheme for the SFO yet. I hope we can work together on that. We have submitted an investigation with proposals on how this can be done. There are some challenges associated with this that we do not have a full overview of today. One is, among others: that there are many municipalities that have income-rated payment schemes, free places and siblings, and then the question is how to deal with it. We're afraid to make arrangements that could end up actually getting more expensive for someone, as it was when the red-green government introduced the maximum price in kindergartens. At that time it became considerably more expensive kindergarten for those with the lowest income. We're afraid that we're going to make national regulations that help legitimize that today's good schemes actually get increased prices in some places. But I'm absolutely sure we're going to have good discussions about these questions. We have just said that we see some problematic aspects, but we have submitted an investigation in line with what we agreed in the 2016 budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e492	What I think is a little strange is that a lot of municipalities have income differentiation in kindergartens. We've made that a system that works well. Almost no municipalities have income differentiation at SFO. In the last summary I saw, it was maybe 20 of all Norwegian municipalities that had it. When the Left sat in town council with the Right in Oslo, we started some research projects, for example. on Mortensrud, where we did it for free using AKS. Then it went from 30 pst. participation in AKS of more than 90 pst. participation. Over 90 pst. By the parents say that the kids learned better Norwegian, the kids played in Norwegian, the kids made more friends, the kids learned more. It was a massive conclusion that this was good, especially for the kids who came from families with bad advice. Now we see that also municipalities that Trondheim throw out 40 kids because they have not paid. This is an important grip. Does the Prime Minister see that this is an important step, including in the fight against child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e499	I can see that. That is also why we agree that we should try to find an arrangement for this, related to the graduated payment. We have to find the good order. At the same time, I sometimes think that we should not always solve all the problems for Norwegian municipal politicians. They must have some problems left to solve themselves. I think so. I am not responsible for the red-green regime in Trondheim throwing out 40 children of the SFO system because they have not paid. It is fully possible to find good local arrangements to ensure that at least those who are most vulnerable and need it most have an opportunity to participate. It must be among the things that can be solved in municipalities. I look forward to a good cooperation with the Left to find a good model for this, a way we can sort it out that makes the SFO a good offer substantial, but also available to people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e506	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e511	The SFO offer – or the AKS offer – is too many parents and many kids an important offer. It's a good offer, it's an offer that they want, and that many people use, especially when they have money for it, or when it's made so that they can make use of it. But when there's so many kids in the SFO, it's not just the price that matters; it actually means something which offer they get when they're there. And there are huge opportunities within the SFO: homework can be something, cultural, outdoor, physical activity – it's really just the imagination that limits what kids can do in the SFO. So it's enough that there's a lot of variation in how people experience the offer of SFO – in some places it's storage, in some places it's a really good offer. We have called for a state framework plan with requirements for both content and competence, because we believe it must be an objective that there is a content and that there are pedagogical staff present. What does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e520	It's always dangerous to rely on one's own experiences of having children in a school leisure program — or AKS, where I've had children. There's a big difference in the quality of these offers. It's also often personalised, by management, how creative and competent they are, how you perceive action, and how good you are to cooperate with the rest of the environments around. I experienced in Oslo School that my children were in schools where a lot of activity was put in, with the possibility of having part of their leisure activities within the school leisure system – a good solution, good models – that actually helped us to get more peace in the evening and in the afternoon, because part of it, for example. The provision of sports and cross-sectional services was organised. I don't disagree that we can imagine a framework plan or anything else, but I'm a little concerned that if we think that this is about local communities being different in the way of organizing it, we also have to make an arena to learn from each other, learn from the good examples. In some places SFOs are run by sports teams, where they have a school leisure scheme based on actors other than those of the municipality. We must not lose this. I'm afraid that in some way we will also lose a variance that the community can give, which does not directly give the state and state rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e528	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e533	I just want to remind the Prime Minister that in Trondheim the Workers' Party is running together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, so there are more who are responsible there. But my question to the Prime Minister is about child poverty. In his book, the prime minister's former councillor, Robert Eriksson, says that he regrets the government's cut in the children's supplement of 590 million. kr, while giving great tax relief to the richest. We've seen that the tax havens can amount to about 20 million. kr for some, and I expect the Prime Minister to meet the kids for these misdemeanors sometimes. How does the Prime Minister explain that it's fair to cut 590 million. In addition to the children’s allowance, can individuals receive tens of millions of dollars in tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e540	I thought that the Workers' Party agreed with the basic principle that the working line is important, also for the future development of welfare in Norway. We are facing some major challenges in the future, and I also think that the leader of the Workers' Party outlined well in his first question, among other things. There will be many more older and fewer active people. Therefore, there has been a consensus between the Labour Party and the Right that the working line should be in all our welfare systems, with the possibility of graduated disability, with the possibility of being returned to work. We have created common tax rules and common systems. That is why we have been concerned that for those who are unsatisfied — some have an opportunity to return to work, in whole or in part — it should not be such as to make it pay to go to work because of elements of this. That's why we made changes to the children's supplement. The sketch that is always drawn in terms of the tax relief you have had is more populist than taking responsibility for the serious development we will have in the future if the workline does not become dominant in Norwegian welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e549	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e554	The representative of Stepe Skei Grande referred to paragraph 4(d) of the Cooperation Agreement and was able to give the impression that this was something only the Left was involved in the budget after the budget. I think it's right to say that the Left has received very good relief from the Christian People's Party in the budget by budget. In the budget proposal, the government describes the central transfer arrangements for families with children: cash support, child benefit, etc. Nevertheless, a majority of the Programme Committee of the Right has recommended that the free transfers to families with children should be replaced with support for the use of kindergarten and SFO. It surprises the Christian People's Party very much. The Christian People's Party believes that instead of discussing how support for families with children can be reduced or managed by the public, we should rather discuss how we can facilitate even better arrangements for children and families. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is important to continue the child-restraint as the universal system, a system for all families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e563	I am a supporter of the fact that we also have cash benefits, especially for those with the lowest incomes, and in stages of life. So I haven't taken a decision on all the proposals from the programme committee, and it's also shared on this issue. I don't think party leaders should always wind up all the debates going on in the party, signaling where you stand. But it is clear that services and services are important, including for families with children. For some of the weakest and poorest people, what we've done for example. free core time and graduated parental pay – which was otherwise simply an agreement that we should do, since these four parties agreed, before we got into government, that we should do this – contribute not least to equip children to participate in society in a way that cash benefits do not always do. Therefore, we need to balance services and cash benefits against each other. What I think may be the most important thing about child poverty, is to help those children who feel that they can't participate in things because their parents can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e570	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e575	The way out of child poverty is through parents ’ income. In the draft government budget, the government will cut the financial support to large families of children in reception. The more children you have, the larger the children will be cut. A family with two children does not get cut, but has a family of five children, gets a cut of $4,000 a month. That means well under half the rate of social welfare. So child poverty will increase reception by cutting back on families with the greatest needs. I can respect the government's desire to take action against so-called economically motivated migration, but can the Prime Minister feel that it is right to punish children in families in reception who are so lucky – or unlucky – to have more siblings?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e580	When Stortinget discussed the question of restrictions on the flow of refugees last year, it was agreed that one should go in to look at ways of tightening up the benefits received. The government has followed up setting a ceiling on the budget this year. I believe it is important that the time you are receiving is as short as possible. The most important thing for children and child poverty with regard to asylum seekers and persons to remain in Norway is that we have a good integration policy. Making sure that we lift people faster into work, and that they're going to be better off, will be much more important to parents than how much money they get in reception. This was part of the tightening up that we agreed to look at, and we have put forward a proposal on it in the budget so that it should not be too favorable to live in a reception. When there's not so much pressure this year, you can of course run away from the contractions you agreed to try on last year, but I think it's a good idea to be consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e587	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e592	Differences are increasing in Norway, and this government is showing this trend. The government takes from the poor and sick, from people who have it difficult, and then gives it generously to those who have the most and have the best. The list of petty and unsocial cuts in this state budget is long. A lot of people are hit. It's disabled dependants, it's chroniclers, it's disabled people, families with children on asylum receptions, people who lose their jobs, etc. These petty cuts are carried out in a situation where the government spends unhesitatingly a lot of oil money, and where the tax cuts now pass 20 billion. kr. In this budget, the richest in Norway receive once again mild gifts from the government, which allow their wealth to grow even a little larger. It spreads enough joy, I think, among people who have it hard, that they can be part of this fissure layer for the richest. Chroniclers can contribute a higher proportion of physical therapy, 250 people with developmental disabilities or others can contribute to the loss of their permanently organized jobs, poor parents can tighten their lives for their children even a little more, and people who have lost their jobs are allowed to tax their final agreement – all of this to contribute to the necessary efforts for the rich. I wonder if the Prime Minister, now that this list of cuts is beginning to become clear, has some messages to poor people and sick people who get it tougher because of her budget. For example, she wants to. Thank them for the generous contribution they are now making to the rift of the richest, which the Prime Minister has set in motion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e604	It's always an advantage when parties sell in their business before an oral question to a newspaper, so we can see what we can expect to get questions about. We have gone quite thoroughly through the sale that SV has today made to VG, and to say it like this, do they have no more to come with? That was my question when I saw it, because the truth is that measured against all the improvements we make in many welfare schemes, this is little. We propose a major reform in which we double the number of families who get help in a difficult situation with the long-term ill, in the care system, a system that we tried time and time again to get the red-green government to do something, but with which they didn't do anything in all the years they spent. We're doing conversions in the housing support scheme, which contributes to the fact that yes, someone who's got too much before, doesn't get it, but we're using proceeds and money to make improvements in the housing support system. We make sure that more people actually get a lower self-esteem in physiotherapy. We have a long list of many who have been unprioritized – some diagnoses have given priority to free physiotherapy, a number of other diagnoses have given nothing. Now we lower the roof and have equal treatment of the prowess on everything else. These changes will be drawn as an image on a map of the rich. There is much more money that helps to improve measures for people who have difficulties in Norway, in this budget, than the constraints and changes we make in schemes that were natural to make changes to. In the case of a matter I see has been important, the resource-intensive users, I would like to remind you that the red-green government twice proposed to make changes to it. Then SV's spokespersons stood at the barricades and said that no, this does not apply to the users at all. So there's another rule for the Light Hill when he's in opposition, then it's for the users, but when he's sitting with the government and doing the exact same thing, the proportion of the municipalities increases more, then there's something else. I think that's a little double-moral.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e615	SV has a long history of defending the mechanism for resource-intensive users. I think the answer to the Prime Minister is syllable and revealing. If the message to those affected by the cuts this government is implementing is ‘Do they have any more to come with?’, the Prime Minister shows that she has not understood what the life situation of people with difficulties in Norway is. Let me do a concrete example. In this budget, the government is implementing another round of cuts in the children's supplement. Many families have got a tougher everyday life, tells of a everyday life in which they have to tighten up the belt even more, where it's even harder to get the ends to meet. They find it incomprehensible that they cannot afford their well-being, while the Prime Minister has so much money for the richest. Last week, SV suggested in the debate on the throne that we should at least monitor how these families have been doing, and it voted Right, the Advance Party and the Left down. Is it so that the Prime Minister thinks that one with the criticism of the budget has so little to say that she is not even interested in finding out how poor families have been affected by her own cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e622	The rate of implementation of the phasing-out of the transitional mechanism agreed during the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budgets is 5 million. kr. Let me take an example from the list to the Light Tray. There's one of the cuts that we cut in order of 9 million. kr to the Office for the Compensation of Victims, which was then launched as a cut for the weakest. But we're going to put the 9 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. That's plus 19 million. kr in improvements for the weakest through what we do. That's why I say there was an interesting list to read, it's a sign that this is a good budget, that there are good social priorities, when SV so panically has to find solutions where we actually make improvements in matters, as arguments for it getting worse, because it's going to suit the rhetoric they're going to go to elections, not to the terrain that we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e629	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e634	Without making a single demand, the government saves millions in the pockets of the richest billionaires in this country, while they see need to cut, among other things. on physical therapy and sends a shock bill to the victim. I don't think the Prime Minister could have read the budget, because it's 300 million. kr less for that. Housing mentions the government. Yes, the Prime Minister's budget says that there are 1 000 fewer people receiving housing support for next year, and in the last two to three years there are 12,000 fewer who have received, despite the rise in housing prices. Then there is reason to ask the Prime Minister, when she now sends these shock bills, puts the difficult knife on the throat, thinks they are getting fresh and that they are getting a job out of it in a tough labour market: how many more of the lazy people really think the Prime Minister is getting a job out of this – not doing what is going to be more difficult under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e641	We're doing a change in the way we handle physiotherapy services. That means we're taking away a diagnostic list where some of the diagnostics -- actually a little historical and random -- have made you have full access to it for free. At the same time, there is a diagnosis that I know that Andersen's representative has been concerned about, fibromyalgia, which does not get, and which is a major female disease. There you get a lower self-esteem. And at the same time, the fact that we're all going to pay off is that we can lower the self-interest by NOK 680. This means that a number of disabled and chronically ill people get less money for this. At the same time, we're spending 200 million. kr of it to strengthen the physical therapy and rehabilitation services in the municipalities through the priorities we do, and we arrange a escalation plan related to it. Children between the ages of 12 and 16 now receive free physiotherapy services, so that for those who have poor finances and have children in that situation, an improved system is introduced. What we have to do is redistribute because old systems are bad, but it's not 300 million. kr i cut, it's actually a big conversion and a change, and we've said that we should step up... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e650	Time's up. Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e657	There were probably many poor and unemployed people who last week, when the state budget was presented, thought, "Does one not have more to come?" Last week, in the debate on the throne, the Prime Minister said: ‘It is therefore not such that it is demonstrated that these differences are increasing.’ She went on to say, ‘I would like to welcome a discussion of differences, but it must be at something other than the level of rhetoric and a look-up in the Class struggle.’ Both the hub and the labour force survey show that unemployment is record high. More and more Norwegians are going to social assistance. The central statistical agency reports an increase in differences in income and wealth. The so-called Gini coefficient says that the differences are increasing, and the finance minister, as in an interpellation debate that was raised by me on 31 May this year, claimed that the differences do not increase, admits to me on 7 June that the differences are increasing. The question then arises: What other documentation requirements must be met before the Prime Minister admits that under her leadership differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e676	I think what I said was that you have to discuss the reasons as well, and what are the instruments against this. I then pointed to four OECD recommendations and areas in my contribution to the debate on the throne in order to combat differences. One was that the welfare system and the tax system should contribute to redistribution. Obviously, when we have an increase of 2.1 pst. in all patient treatment, as we continue the escalation plan for the 350-million-dollar drug field. kr, when we strengthen the community framework and increase the recruitment of psychologists, and when we introduce package courses for mental health and drug abuse, all this helps to reduce inequalities over time. The participation of women in employment continues to increase. Several women work full-time. I can continue to mention that this is also a question of how to create a mapping tool for basic skills. There are many measures in this budget – not least in the area of integration – that go right to the heart of what are potential challenges of inequality in the future. In fact, I think that the debate deserves to have a strategy against inequality – not just a strategy for political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e687	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e692	This government opted for implementing power, and after three years this is part of the image: what was produced as a very unique, special and important emergency element in the Prime Minister's office has been reduced to a Secretariat of the Government's Security Committee. Defence and police are unable to cooperate on the issue of maritime counter-terrorism. Police will have helicopter, but probably not until 2019, six years after Erna Solberg took over. There is still no pan-European plan for regional training and preparedness centres, so that one can gain competence in all parts of the country. National Police Emergency Response Centre — it is not in the vicinity of being ready. In the latter case, the Prime Minister and the Government have rejected Alnabru as a location – despite the fact that the government itself announced in its budget paper in 2014 that ‘the current building programme can be adapted to Alnabru’. Now they're still getting out of Gromo and Taraldrud, and I'm no longer so busy building this national emergency center, as long as it's just being built and an actually capable of maintaining decent progress. Now, in the budget, there will be a clarification about the location of this cottage, which means that money for construction will probably not lead to the earliest after the 2017 elections. My question is: what does the Prime Minister think even if he has an executive role?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e704	We have taken over all the areas that were not taken into account before we became a government. Something was started under the previous government, we have taken hold of what was not started or implemented, and have had very good implementation on most of those points. There are some challenges that remain. These include: The emergency centre, where because of the cut in the process, one ended up delaying the whole process, as it turned out that it would be difficult to get a well accessible centre on the plot chosen by the previous government. But when I hear the list from the representative Hadia Tajik, I get a little surprised, for example. with regard to the new police helicopters. One of the first things this government did was actually cut through and order police helicopters, which was not done by the previous government. But it takes so long for the police helicopters to arrive. We also got a very good deal. We got a good helicopter. It has better capacity than before. But we cut through something that had stood and pushed between different decision makers, and got that order pretty early in our period. But to complain that we don't get any more helicopters for the rescue services – we have proposed new police helicopters in this budget, and it's going to happen. There are some things I think Norwegian politicians too should think a little bit better about before they use it as arguments against others. So to the issue of maritime counter-terrorism: because there has been an empty space, an uncertainty related to the Norwegian Constitution and the use of military forces together with the police, we have just reduced a public sample with all the parties involved. The most important thing is that they agree on almost everything in terms of cooperation between the Defense and the Police, with the exception of just the management of maritime counter-terrorism. There is a question that is now going to be consulted and that is going to come back again. But we've laid the groundwork to make sure that what we're doing is in line with time, but also in line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e715	No one owes the government for nothing happening in this field. My complaint, on the other hand, is that there are the large handles missing. The example I'm giving here applies to the big grips. When it comes to rescue helicopters, to which the Prime Minister referred, it should be lacking that one did not cut through and took a decision, because the basis of the decision was already at the time of government change. But at least then we have been made clear that the definition of implementing power is that eight years is too long. It says the rhetoric to the government. The use of one year, from 2012 to 2013, from the Gjørv report came, to the recommendations of the Stoltenberg government being too short and not responsible enough, while the use of three years, as this government has done, is just right when it comes to the emergency centre, and six years is just right for police helicopters. It's a pretty straightforward clarification to get. What I'm surprised, though, is that the Prime Minister shows so much inaction when it comes to the National Police Emergency Response Centre. What will the Prime Minister say about his own implementation for this important effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e724	A lot of things have been done in the police and in other parts of the emergency services to raise preparedness in the future. I think the big things are actually something other than these physical things. The big things are the culture, the personnel, the people who are well trained, who are well equipped, and that we have enough of them. That's the big grips. That's what's going to be crucial to whether it's going to be a different sequence of events, if we again – which I hope will never happen – would come into a situation like the one we had on 22 July. Doing something about culture, training, equipment and preparedness for people is the most important thing we do. We've raised the number of police officers, we've lifted the training, we have more people who are able to go into tougher assignments than you've had before, and we've been working out a lot of good solutions between the police and others. With regard to the National Emergency Response Centre, I believe that this is an important part. Of course, it should have been in place earlier, but it's silly to cut the usual investigations, because then we get the problems afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e733	It will be a follow-up question – from Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e738	It seems as if the Prime Minister is still using it the Stoltenberg government wasn't able to solve, as an excuse or reason for what she herself doesn't do. It's funny, when what we were promised was implementation. It's right that culture, training, etc. is an important part of enhanced preparedness. Some of the opportunities for training, where blue-lighting activities and defence can train to reach each other better, are also found in the regional emergency centres. A concept has been developed on Rygge, with which the Directorate of Civil Protection was assigned to continue its work. It was withdrawn by this government, and a few kroner were allocated to Østfold County Municipality and Rygge and Moss municipalities to continue working on it. It's shifting responsibility away. Why has the government not taken responsibility for getting this on the rails?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e745	We have chosen to make some very clear priorities in the field of preparedness. It has, among other things, We have put in place many of the things that were on the list of shortcomings, for example. national procedure in the case of the cooperative nature of emergency situations and in the case of ongoing life-threatening violence. We have provided more money for the planning and design of the National Emergency Response Centre. We have new weapons instructions. In addition, there are considerably more trained staff, and more than what you have done in the past. It's not all the priorities that are necessarily the same as the red-green government did, but we're working a lot to raise the preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e752	So the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e766	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Care on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative of Olivia Corso Salles. Question 3, by Mr Bollestad, representative of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question No 7, by Kari Henriksen, representative of the Minister of Justice and Defence, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 12, from the representative of Gunvor Eldegard to the Minister of Knowledge, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 13, from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister for Culture, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e792	‘The government has recently revised the guidelines on the location of state jobs. In a response from the Council of State Anundsen, he refers to them to explain why joint police tasks have not been assessed as being assigned to the police community services in the municipality of Gran, and he explains why the municipality has a common labour market with Oslo. Is it the government's policy that commuter municipalities such as Gran are disqualified for localising state jobs?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e799	I thank you for the question. It is correct, as the representative of Aasrud says, that the guidelines for the location of State jobs and the production of State services were revised in the autumn of 2014. These have also been referred to by the Minister of Justice and Security in his reply to the Storting in June of this year, concerning the location of the police's future unit of unit of wage and accounting. The guidelines contain formal requirements for the location of state workplaces as a basis for the selection and assessment of alternative locations for localisation. Three considerations shall be taken into account and weighed against each other. These are conditions for location, the purpose of location and cost-effectiveness and efficient response. The conditions for location involve an assessment of the importance of proximity to services, competence requirements and infrastructure requirements. For the purpose of assessing the locational objective, the focus shall be on localisation at regional centres where the activities have the greatest potential to contribute to the local provision of jobs. The last condition, on cost-effectiveness, is more self-explanatory. Communes of commuters such as Gran are not disqualified for the location of state jobs. The main criterion of the guidelines is that, as a general rule, new state activities should not be located in Oslo. In a concrete state location case, all three different conditions for location mentioned above must be investigated. In total, a decision has been taken to establish or move around 390 jobs so far during this large-scale period. By comparison, under the red-green government, only 200 jobs outside Oslo were moved out or newly established from 2009 to 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e821	I thank you for your answer. Based on the criteria listed here by the Council of State, it is only more surprising that it is used to be in a common labour market with Oslo to justify not even considering what is established as a joint service for the police in Gran. You didn't even get to be in the competition. Then I have to ask the Council of State, because he is concerned that cost-effectiveness is one of the criteria, and we also see that in a number of other issues where the government cuts the budget just to contribute to cost-effectiveness: Is it cost-effective to create more units around when you have a joint service, a staff function that should work for an organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e826	It is interesting that this question comes from the Workers' Party, because I am meeting many representatives of big business and rapporteurs from the Workers' Party who are concerned about moving government jobs out of Oslo. That's what this government is doing, and we've already moved out almost twice as many as the previous government did from 2009 to 2013. Then there are different considerations to be taken into account, how cost-effectiveness is one of those elements. I am absolutely sure that there are many good examples that it is also cost-effective to leave the jobs outside Oslo, among other things. This is because more stable labour can then be created. And there is good access to skilled labour even outside the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e831	That's exactly why it's so amazing that you don't consider an established commuting unit from Oslo, because some of the challenge now is that we have too many people travelling – we have to bring down car traffic, and jobs should be closer to where people live. It will also relieve Oslo in terms of housing prices. Then it becomes very strange that you do not use the areas that are close to Oslo, as part of your channelling of jobs. It might be interesting to hear the Council say how many of the 390 jobs are now outsourced, which are located in cities and not in agglomerations. Because if you're going to be able to spread the jobs to where people live, it must be interesting that you also put these jobs in the vicinity of, for example. Oslo. So how many of those jobs are located elsewhere than in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e836	I understand very well the commitment to Gran Municipality. I am meeting many active deposit representatives from all parties and excellent rapporteurs from all parties fighting for their municipality. We know that when government jobs are to be located, many people want them to be in exactly their municipality. That is why we are concerned about making a concrete assessment in the various cases. I have also said that there is not only one option to consider, but there are three options to consider. The various parameters relating to the labour market, which are about cost-effective solutions, can then be considered. Then I think it also makes sense that not all the government competence jobs are located in Oslo. I think it is good that we also strengthen different labour markets in different places. Then some state jobs will come to the cities, like Stavanger and Bergen, but also to smaller places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e844	This question, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment. The question is raised by the representative, Olivia Corso Salles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e849	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘How big are the extra emission reductions that we get as a result of the Climate Act the government has proposed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e854	The recent proposal for climate legislation at the hearing is an innovation in Norwegian law. It is inspired by the same concept as the climate laws adopted in the United Kingdom, Denmark and Finland, which are now being investigated in Sweden. The aim of this type of legislation is to commit the highest level of decision-making in society, enlargement and government, to pursue a climate policy in line with regulatory climate objectives. The aim is to support the achievement of the objectives of climate policy over time, irrespective of electoral periods and government formations. The government's proposals for climate legislation are legislating the climate objectives that have been politically adopted for 2030 and 2050 and to which the Stortinget has joined. The law itself will not in such a way trigger any emission reductions beyond what we have already committed ourselves to politically in this room. The goal of Norway’s becoming a low-carbon society by 2050, is based on previous climate agreements, is enshrined in this government’s political platform and is also addressed by Meld. St. 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU. The 2030 emission target of at least 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 is also taken into account as set out in this Communication and to which the Stortinge has joined unanimously. We propose to legislate that the objective can be achieved jointly with the EU in line with what the government proposes. Joint fulfilment with the EU means that Norway in the quota sector will contribute to the implementation of emission reductions of 43 pst. compared to 2005 within the EU ETS. In addition, a national emission target for the non-quota sector will be established in line with comparable EU countries. In the proposal for an effort allocation regulation presented this summer, the EU Commission points out that Norway’s high gross domestic product per capita indicates that we will have a target of reducing emissions in the non-quota sector by 40 pst. It's a very ambitious goal. The final target figure for emission reductions in the non-quota sector will be clarified later, in the light of the dialogue with the EU on joint compliance with climate objectives. The added value of the Climate Act is that policy-adopted climate targets become legally binding for all future governments and magnification. The choice of instruments and measures to achieve the objectives will continue to be a matter for the current climate policy. The law combines a binding overall framework and direction with political flexibility in the choice of solutions. The law lays down, among other things: up to an annual update from government to government on the state of emissions development and an overview that makes emission paths visible in the non-quota sector and the types of measures that will be necessary to realise them. The annual status update will provide the basis for the ongoing policy assessment of whether Norwegian climate policy delivers as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e865	SV is concerned that Norway should cut itself and not just buy itself free. So can the Council of State answer whether there will be significant cuts as a result of this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e870	I can see that that was really the original question as well. This law will aim to remedy the commitments that Storting has already committed itself to in the reductions up to 2030 and in the objective up to 2050. The instruments to be used to achieve these objectives are at all times the size of the population and the government to assess. These instruments are also likely to change over a period of time as long as the various objectives are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e875	I have to say that I am a little tired of understanding what is the difference before and after this law. Now the government has sent a law to consult, and then it must have also made an assessment of the climate impact of this particular proposal of law. That's what I'm asking the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e880	The added value of the Climate Act is simply that the politically adopted climate objectives set by this government, to which the Stortinget has joined, also become legally binding on all future governments and magnifications. All experience suggests that precisely when one ensures that the type of objectives cannot be changed by different governments or by different sizes, it also has an impact on the common commitment that the political environment feels to achieve the objectives. That's what's new about presenting this as a law, at the same time as the law, among other things. commits to annual government updates. So the law contributes to the legalisation of policy objectives that are set in this magnification period, which will also be binding on future magnification and governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e894	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e908	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e916	‘Death-sick children, who have been linked to the children’s wards in hospitals, often go into unsafe and fragmented treatment and care after the age of 18. These young people, who are very ill, often with very many complex diagnoses, are being subjected to heavy extra loads along with their relatives by being withdrawn from a well-known and safe treatment and care system. How can the Council of State ensure that hospitals ensure that these patients receive an offer linked to the children’s wards in hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e923	Continuity in contact with healthcare is particularly important for serious ill patients, as the representative de Ruiter also describes. The change of hospital ward and treatment staff towards the end of life is perceived as an additional burden for many. Hospital feedback suggests that they seek flexibility and understanding, where they also say that they take into account life prospects, and they do not practice the age of 18 as a definitive limit for treatment in the child and youth services. This applies to young people with an expected short time to live again, but also to young people with an expected short time to live. cancer patients who are in a longer course of treatment. Some seriously ill youths have diagnosis with short life expectancy statistically, but where they are uncertain how many years they will live. Young people in such a situation will often be transferred to adulthood at the age of 18. Good planning is essential to minimise the burden on patients and relatives of the transition. Rules for the transfer from children’s ward to adult ward have been a focus of Norwegian paediatric medicine in recent years. For many 18-year-old patients, with lifetime uncertainties, medically-scientific reasons for planning transfer to adulthood. Among other things, such departments have special competence to address medical challenges in adult patients. Oslo University Hospital says it this way: ‘Children’s doctors have consistently asserted that children are not young adults — they have to be followed up by child doctors in the organised children’s ward. Similarly, adults are not large children. Adult life has other diseases and other needs and rules that cannot be dealt with in the same way by a child’. The government has also appointed a sample to review today’s palliative offer. The investigation shall be delivered by the end of 2017. The Committee shall propose measures to meet patients and their needs and wishes for treatment, care and care at the final stage of life. The mandate shall read as follows: ‘Children and young people are vulnerable groups and need special attention in the development of services’. People in demanding situations in life need good dialogue with the whole service system. It concerns the Children’s Department, the current Adult Medical Department and, in particular, the permanent and other municipal health services. Good practice is important, but often there is a need for tailoring. Therefore, it is essential that healthcare strives for flexibility in meeting with seriously ill children and young people. The question that the representative de Ruiter raises is a review when I meet young people with experience from hospitals. It is also one of the reasons why I have – and have received support through the National Health and Hospital Plan – asked for the establishment of the Youth Council in all hospitals, precisely because young people also point to what the representative points out, that there has to be an individual assessment in these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e948	Thank you very much for a good and complementary answer. I think we quite agree across the party boundaries on this issue. The background of my taking it up was a look up at NRK Sørlanden. With us, there is a handful of patients, nationally, maybe at the base of 100 who are palliative, who get a very difficult and demanding transition from being defined as children in hospitals to being defined as adults. Now I think a lot of people are trying to organize, but there are probably some people who also experience that they are throwing balls from the department to the department and between hospitals. The Council of State also pointed out – very correctly – that it needs to step up, and my question to the Council of State is: Will he give an extra signal to the companies and hospitals that there is a need for tailoring and individualisation for these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e957	Yes, it's kind of an ongoing work that we're doing to the hospitals, which is also the very core of the patient's healthcare. The fact that one has to take into account the individual patient, that no decisions should be made about me without me in the healthcare system as a continuous culture, is a topic that I follow up at all the meeting points that I have with health care at all levels. But I'm the first to admit that changing that kind of attitude and culture and getting it into the spinal cord of the entire healthcare system is not something done overnight. I also think many young people themselves and their relatives experience it that not always as easy to be the one to be clear. This is one of the reasons why I have also set up youth councils – just to get a system of advice that gives the service very clear feedback not only on behalf of itself, but on behalf of the whole patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e964	I am pleased with the Council's response, and I interpret it as a clear signal to the hospitals and businesses that they must be better – those who are not – to adapt the offer to each patient, and especially these children, who spend a lot of their lives in hospitals, and where the relatives are very stressed. One also sees that these patients like to get extra sick the older they get, and many of these children live on borrowed time and tend to have an expected life expectancy that is not even 18 years old, and the few live only until their 20s. Thank you for a good answer. I feel that this is a clear march ground for the hospitals that they need to be even better adapted, and is also a call for relatives and others to tell me if this does not happen. Is that right, Councillor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e971	It is right for the special group that the representative addresses, namely young people who are in a palliative phase. There I believe that the general rule should be that these young people should not be moved to an adult ward. They need to have the security and tranquillity that it gives to have the health professionals around them that they are used to, and that they know, and that know them as patients in the final phase of life. So there will be, as also the representative is aware, someone who will be more uncertain about, because a statistical know that they may not live long, but nevertheless there are also large individual differences here. In this case, there may be other factors that suggest that a gradual transfer should be made to the adult department, because issues arise related to medicine that is more adult-related. But it has to happen in a good dialogue with the one concerned, and the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e979	‘Vestfold police districts have had major tasks in border control, both in Larvik and Sandefjord. It's 8 months this year spent about 6 million. kr for border control of a total budget of 39 million. kr. This means poorer staffing in other parts of the district, and temporary employment is reduced or discontinued. How does the Council of State feel that the increased tasks can be solved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e986	Let me first thank the representative for addressing issues also in my home police district – not Westfold police district anymore, but South-East police district. It is absolutely right that more police districts, including South-East, has received several tasks since we decided in the autumn of 2015 to reintroduce border controls at a part of our borders. It is the ferry arrivals from Sweden, Denmark and Germany that have been in focus in our area, and it is linked to the situation that was last autumn with a great influx of asylum seekers. The police are a framework-funded business. This means that the police have to deal with the framework they are given by the Storting and have to carry out the missions and carry out the service they are to perform within the limits. And the chief of police must generally be prepared for changes to take place during a fiscal year that requires a re-prioritisation of resources. It is the police chief's responsibility to ensure that it is done within the limits available. I am somewhat uncertain as to what figures Mangt refers to, but the South-East police district has a budget for 2016 of approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr, which the police chief is responsible for disposing of in such a way that the tasks of the district are carried out in the most appropriate manner possible. In addition, when we started this border check, it was also opened so that service staff from both the tax and customs offices could contribute to the police’s problem resolution regarding border control. The representative is right that there are signs from individual police districts that the frameworks of police districts are going to work within are tight. It's a reality that I largely share. Therefore, in its 2017 draft budget, the government has also proposed not only to increase the funds for the police districts by about 300 million. NOK, but in addition granted approximately SEK 300 million. kr to complete the financing of the 350 new police posts from 2016 and the 350 new police posts proposed for 2017. That means we're better at arming the police for the future than what you've ever done before. It also means that the capacity of police districts is increased and that they can carry out both these types of tasks and not least all other types of tasks that the police are assigned to carry out, in an even better way over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e999	Thanks for the answer. I record that it is quite identical to what he gave to our localist, the East German Post. Vestfold is – although it is part of a larger police district – a small county that has great challenges, both with Sandefjord, as a port of boats, with Torp and with Larvik, as a port of boats. There's a lot of people who get across the boundaries there. The burden is heavy, and there is quite a lot of money, regardless of the amount, that goes to cover the extraordinary measures – as we have to call it – and that continues to worry us. It clearly goes beyond other problems. In a balanced budget, which has an item where you can fix this, so we didn't have any measures that were earmarked for that kind of border control. Does that mean that the Council of State was satisfied with the frameworks that were then given and that were to be used, or did one not need to increase at that time, so that there was no increase in border control?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1006	I assume that the representative Mandt refers to last year's balancing proposition. A separate additional proposal was made in connection with the large arrival of asylum seekers in Norway last autumn, which dealt with this financially. There was a huge increase in the appropriations made available to the police to deal with the challenges that the police were facing, among other things. due to the increased influx of asylum. The picture that nothing was done about the police's budgets in this respect, I can't quite stand my ground. At the same time, it was probably not that the money was earmarked for border control. As far as possible, we are trying to steer the police as well as they can, so that the police themselves can make priorities within their own framework. In some areas, however, earrings still exist, but I do not see that a earring is relevant to the border area, even if one should maintain the border control in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1013	Thank you again for your answer. I note that the Council of State believes that such a large increase in tasks does not create the need for more money in any special budgets. In Larvik, Westfold, we are very proud to have the Police College at the Council of State's own home, Stavern. Has the State Council assessed – he mentioned the tariff rate and tax rate – how the students can be more used in the type of border control work, as a complement to and as part of the training? Has the Council of State been in on that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1020	Let me first just point out that the representative Mandt's party and the government agree that one should not grant additional money to the police because of the increased border control. There are no proposals from the Workers' Party, either in alternative budgets or in ageing, which would suggest that a person wants to increase the appropriations for the police as a result of border controls. If the representative Mandt believes that this is necessary, I expect that we will find it in the budgets of the Labour Party. We haven't seen that so far – it might come in the future. In the case of students, they can be used for, among others. border tasks – on weekends, leisure, etc. There are several police districts that use it. Of course, it is not free work, it is work for which it is to be paid. However, some of these students will have relevant skills, as well as the tax rate and customs duty rate to reinforce border controls where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1036	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1044	‘Women and girls are exposed to severe hoarseness and threats to social media. A well-known blogger protested the Mannegroup Ottar's spread of jokes about the rape and abuse of children, etc., upon which she received threats. The police council was to remove the article on the group of men from the blog for her own safety’. And President, I know there's some nuances in this that don't come out here. – ‘It is unacceptable to hug girls and women when they are exposed to threats. Is the Council of State satisfied with the advice of the police that women should not be exposed to extreme female hostility in the public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1051	Let me first be very clear that freedom of expression is a fundamental and fundamental right in any democracy, and it is the task of the police to protect freedom of expression and those who express themselves in our democratic society. With regard to this specific matter that the questioner addresses, the questioner has the right to know that there are nuances in that matter. It is difficult for me to give a concrete kick-off right there to mention that I have registered that the blogger himself is satisfied with the dialogue she has had with the police. I think that's good. As for the question of the council that may have been made by the police, to remove the post in order to reduce the threat, I share the questioner's view. This is not a advice that we would normally be able to defend. It shall not be recommended to withdraw or delete an opinion submitted with a view to reducing the threat. One might also ask whether eT such advice will actually help to reduce a threat, because the opinion has already been delivered. It is important for me, as Minister of Justice and Security, to ensure that the police protect those who express themselves. And if a threat situation is perceived as real and serious by offended or the police, it's actually the police's responsibility to ensure that someone takes care of insulted opinions in a proper and proper way. I also want to mention that in the autumn of 2015 the government adopted a political declaration against hateful statements. The declaration includes both legal and illegal statements. The statement stresses this, inter alia: that the government will work to ensure that everyone can participate in the public debate and move freely in the public space without being exposed to hateful expressions. The government will also actively contribute to the detection, investigation and implementation of hateful opinions. As a follow-up to the declaration, the government will launch its own strategy against hateful expressions in the autumn. The strategy shall provide an overall overview of the government's work in this area, identify the need for new knowledge and, at the same time, indicate the objectives of the government's future efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1064	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Council of State is so clear in addressing objections, for example. that there are threats of rape against 13-year-olds, and that one does not think it is okay with all the terrible points of view that appear on any of these blogs. But I'm probably a little bit in doubt about what is the police's follow-up to these issues. One is if the one being threatened really gets protection, because here we're not talking about statements that are legitimate, but about threats that are being posed. The second is how the police follow up on those who threaten. It's actually illegal to threaten. It's even a presidential candidate now who thinks this is some kind of wardrobe talk that men are used to. There is no need to minimize the fact that this is a trend that can easily develop if the police do not respond to these threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1075	Once again, I'm going to share the questioner's starting point. This is unacceptable behavior. And as I mentioned in my main response, it is suggested that the police should be able to prosecute, investigate and also rectify that kind of illegal opinion. Some of these statements are very serious. It is the police who, of course, have to assess in the prosecution which issues to be followed up, investigated and corrected, but there is no doubt that this is an area that is important. We have also seen examples of police driving these cases well through the investigation trail and to the courts. I am convinced that the police also see the consequences of raising the threshold for what one considers to be acceptable statements, because these are fundamentally unacceptable statements, and they are also criminal statements. I trust that the police will make a thorough and good prioritisation of what matters they want to investigate and follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1084	Unacceptable statements are one thing. Threats are something completely different, and that's what's happening all the time. In previous answers, the Council of State has now pointed out that police capacity has never been as good as it is now – as the Council of State said before – and it is also said that threats that are perceived as serious have to be responded to. Unfortunately, it's not like that in all the police districts. I have repeatedly asked the Council of State about, for example. partner killing, where the threat level has been high, and threats of both killing and rape have flourished. It is still not guaranteed that the tools known to reduce the risk have been put in place in all police districts. Can the Council of State say when this capacity comes into place in all police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1091	This capacity shall initially be in place in all police districts. We know that some police districts have labored more than others to implement, for example. SARA, an important tool for resolving future threats in the context of partner killing. The police directorate has been clearly informed that this will take place in all police districts, and not only in place, but it will also be practised in all police districts. Then the representative of Andersen is quite right that the police have never been better equipped to handle these kinds of things than they are now, but they are far from good enough. This is why the government has been concerned that we should implement the near-police reform, so that all police districts will also have the opportunity to have specialist competence in this area. It has been opposed by the representative’s party, but part of this near-police reform is also about ensuring competence and capacity to pursue these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1101	‘4 out of 10 women sons in Norwegian prisons, sons with men. More people experience sexual harassment from male inmates. In the treatment of gender equality, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to investigate the need for its own women’s wards in several prisons and to assess the creation of several own women’s prisons. How has the Council of State followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy, has the need for more women's wards been identified, and will more women's own prisons be established?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1108	Atonement for women is a very important theme. The Ministry pointed out in the development plan for crime-related capacity that women are entitled to an organised offer in line with men and that, as a general rule, women are to carry out punishments in their own prisons. If women are to be penalised in prisons with male prisoners, it must be done in separate sheltered wards with organised offers. When creating new women's shelters, these shall be established in line with the guidance and recommendations contained in the development plan. The government has also ensured the creation of more clean women's seats. Criminal services now have four clean women's prisons. It's Bredtveit, Ravneberget, Sandefjord and the newly established prison in Kragerø. Women's seats are also organised in separate departments in six common prisons. In addition, we will now turn Kongswinger prison department G into a women's department from New Year 2016/2017. So just lately, we're actually doing two prisons for women's prisons. At the same time as we have implemented short-term measures, we are planning long-term measures. Conceptual selection studies have now been carried out on criminal enforcement capacity in the East and in the Agder counties. Future solutions for women’s prisons are, of course, part of these long-term plans. The government will come back to proposals for follow-up to the investigations that have now been carried out in an appropriate manner. I would also like to mention that there are many other important measures that are not purely structural. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is now working on its own women’s soning strategy to be available during the year. The Ministry will follow up the measures when the strategy is available. The proposed reorganization of criminal services currently being dealt with in the Grand Duchy, with its own special unit with special responsibility for the provision of compensation to women throughout the country, will also be an important contribution if adopted. I want to challenge the representative Toppe in that area, as the matter lies in Stortinget. There is a specific area in which the Centre Party can help us to better organise criminal services, and that we focus even better on how to organise women in prison. In addition, I would mention that the government in the budget has proposed to increase the proportion of criminal executions by electronic control. Experience from electronic control shows that there are many women in need of such an implementation and that there is a good alternative in getting better and more organised housing in their own homes, which is also important for vulnerable women with health-related challenges, who are pregnant or are responsible for small children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1125	Thank you very much for your answer. Is there any of the Council of State listed here that has been specifically assessed after the Storting treating the gender equality message, where one specifically asks to address the need for more women's wards and more prisons? Or is this a work that has been going on all along? I was wondering. Then the Council of State refers to a strategy to come. I have come to understand that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare presented a report in 2015 entitled Equal Opportunities for Women and Men under the responsibility of criminal law. There I counted 54 actions under six main themes. Can the government repeat how this report is being followed? Will there now be a strategy that will become its government, or how does it work in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1134	The last report is followed in two tracks. One is that some of the measures are already in the process of being implemented. The second is this strategy that I mentioned in my main response. The question of when we started working on the measures I have outlined, whether it was before or after the Storting decision, has probably a two-part answer. Some of these measures have been taken all the time, because we have been concerned about the reconciliation of women. Since the government joined in 2013, we have received many feedback that the housing conditions for women in a number of prisons are too poor, and we have been concerned that we should ensure better housing conditions for women. That should be positive. In addition, some of these measures are likely to be implemented after the Stortinget has taken its decision. One of the conclusions of this has been made in the draft budget now, where we have announced that we are turning department G of King Wings into a clean women's prison. In addition, Kragerø has recently been established.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1141	Thanks for the answer. I see that in that report from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, there are many points of action that they recommend to create more equivalent conditions for women and men in prison. However, they have a very concrete objective of establishing 300 women’s seats in prison by 2030. I wonder if there's a target that the government also has, that there should be a fixed number of new women's seats. Another measure is to regulate, as a general rule, the detention of women in own prison wards. Does the Council of State also think that there is a need to regulate the right of women to an equivalent compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1150	We are not currently working on legislative proposals in this area. In the case of numerical fixing, the government has not taken a position on the number of women's seats in addition to what is contained in the capacity plan that the Storting has been dealing with, where they give some indication of what this looks like in the event of a projected development. In addition, since 2010, the number of newly admitted women has actually declined somewhat. It's positive, but that doesn't mean we're reducing the focus on ensuring good atonement for women. On the contrary, the measures already taken by the government, and the measures that I mentioned now are in the process of being implemented, will have an impact on women's welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1161	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In an interview on 29 March, I asked why the concept of organised crime has been removed from the objectives of the 2015 and 2016 letters of assignment to the police. The concept of organised crime is also almost absent in the written ‘Frames and guidelines for the establishment of new police districts’ of the Police Directorate. This isn't just about words, but whether the police should allocate resources to working with the underlying criminal structures. How will the Council of State ensure that the fight against gangs and organised crime is given priority in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1170	Let me first thank the representative of Bohemia for an important and good commitment to the fight against organised crime. Now I think that the fight is about significantly more than words, and I want to stress, as I did during the interpellation debate, that organized crime – these two words – has been replaced by serious, profit-based crime, has no real change beyond the fact that the latter is more extensive than the first. We know that organized crime has one main driver, and that's profit. It's driving crime organized in such a way that you have to get the most benefit from the criminal activity that's actually going on. And that can be done in many areas. We've seen several examples, including in the media lately, of how crowds organize to ensure the benefits of criminal activity. Therefore, we believe that the use of that concept actually provides better target management than limiting it to organised crime as such, because serious, profit-based crime is also organised crime. It is also important to stress that neither political nor the Riksadvokat have given any indication that organised crime should be deprioritised. On the contrary, it is clear from both the leadership of us and from the Riksadvokat's objective and priority that serious, internationally organised crime, including serious drug law offences, is a priority. Prioritisation means giving priority to other issues, when one is faced with situations where one should give priority to different issues with which the police are to work. In addition, I would like to mention that we are doing some grips that are now very important. In addition to the regular strengthening of the Norwegian police force, where we have organized more than 1,000 new police posts since the government change, we have strengthened with a net of 50 new posts, and considerably more police lawyers and police lawyers are actually at work today than they were in 2013. It's also important. We have implemented measures to provide better instruments to the police in the fight against organised crime. Data reading is an important tool in this respect. The close police reform shall contribute to the lifting of the efforts of all police districts against organised crime or the so-called serious, profit-based crime. So I am convinced that the efforts we are now making, the efforts we are now expecting from the Norwegian police in this area, are not a little bit lower than before – rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1179	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. With regard to the word itself, I would like to stress that, most recently in the government's big news, called Global Security Challenges, which were dealt with a year ago, the government equated terrorism and organised crime with the greatest threats to the social structure. In Europol in international cooperation, ‘organised crime’ is the concept used to focus on the structures behind crime, not just on what is on the surface. It's not about vocabulary, but it's built up a huge effort in a number of police districts, in Hordaland, Rogaland, South Trondelag, Agder, Romerike, Oslo, where you have your own org. Krim. units. So I think it's a little unnecessary to confuse them in some way if you mean the same thing, by renaming what they're doing. Obviously, much of organized crime is about things that are profit-motivated. What's important in those units is to avoid working with the environments in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1188	I'm a little surprised if there's any suspicion that the use of new target formulations in the Justice and Defence Department would confuse those working in the police with organized crime. I visited even yesterday Special Operations in the Oslo Police District and had a good dialogue on the situation there. There is a fantastic job in the fight against organized crime in very many police districts, not least in Oslo. It's resource-intensive. It's tough for those who work on it. But there are no signals from either the Department, the Police Directorate or the National Attorney who would help create any doubt as to the importance of working against organized crime. To the extent that someone should be exposed to that confusion, I can at least help to clarify it now, both for the representative of Bohemia and for any other, that the fight against organised crime is still at the very top of the priority list, but we have set objectives different from what we did in the past, because we have done about the whole target structure in the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1193	Thanks for the answer. It is important that the Council of State underlines this. It will then be a cross of thought when we have had our own units against organized crime in these police districts. If you want a new concept, you could call it Unit for serious, profit-motivated crime. What turns out is that what is now being developed, which is part of the guidelines for police reform, is that the units should be called the Joint Intelligence and Investigation Unit, where there are a lot of boxes below, and where the other tasks are detailed in the guidelines of the Police Directorate, but organised crime is not mentioned in any detail. My concern is that instead of having a strong focus on averting, preventing, building up personal knowledge and monitoring these environments in the long term, you will be left with operational grips, reactive grips, where you do not work to prevent these environments from occurring, as we see reports on, among other things. from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1200	This was a combination of several different relationships. Firstly, the overall structure to be put in place in different police districts, which is currently being debated in Oslo, gives the impression that it would help to change the content of the job being done. That's not the case. I'm not going to go into what this looks like from Bohemian point of view. The second is that the concept of ‘serious, profit-based crime’ is a target. It is not about how the organisational units should reflect their name on the target structure, but the tasks, the priorities of the tasks are different. As I mentioned in my first answer, serious, profit-motivated crime is something more than just the organized, but it is also organized. So it's important not to confuse completely different relationships – the one about goals and governance, and the other about organisation and implementation. All the work the police are actually doing is prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1212	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘In the Council of State’s answer to my written question No. 1601 she does not relate to the majority comment in Option 367 S for 2015–2016 cf. Prop. 79 LS for 2015–2016 on the conversion of Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway, AIM Norway. Can the State Council confirm that employees’ rights and pension schemes, including the closed-end defined benefit pension scheme of the State pension fund, are continued in line with the observations made by the majority of the population?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1221	The government was in the legal proposition for the conversion of Aerospace Industrial Maintenance, AIM Norway, into a limited liability company that the transformation itself would not result in any change in the employees’ pension rights, which was followed up by the majority in the Innst. 367 S for 2015–2016, where it appears that the rights and pension schemes of the employees must be continued. When AIM Norway was formed as a share company on 26 August 2016, the current employees were allowed to continue their membership of the State pension fund, SPK, as foreseen. I can thus confirm that the pension scheme has been continued in the limited company in line with both the government's intentions and the Committee's comments. This is also the same as in connection with the conversion of the Air Force headquarters Kjeller, LHK, into state enterprises in its time. The employees were then transferred to the SPK, while new employees entered into a new pension scheme, not part of the SPK. In this context, I would like to refer to the unanimous comment of the Committee on the Inst. 366 L for 2015-2016, where the Committee noted that it is the responsibility of the board to assess the future pension relationship of the company. We therefore agree on where the responsibility lies for assessing and determining this. The company's pension relationship is not a Ministry of Defence that owns or should exercise ownership. The form of the company and other types of company in question are based on a clear division of roles between the owner and the management. Paragraphs 6 to 12 of the Share Act apply to the management of companies under the Board of Directors and the Executive Director. So this is the exact same thing that you've done in the transformation of e.g. Post, NSB and Telenor. It is the board that also determines the pension relationship there. This implies that the day-to-day and business management of the company and its responsibility lies with the management. The ownership authority of a Council of State is exercised in an AS through the General Assembly. As can be seen from the ownership notice, the country which owns it has traditionally been very careful to instruct the companies in individual cases at general meetings. First of all, this is linked to breaking and undermining the division of roles and responsibilities provided by company law. Secondly, the active use of the authorising authority at the general meeting could have aspects against the constitutional responsibility of a Council of State towards Stortinget if, through the General Assembly Decision, a Council of State assumes responsibility for the dispositions of the board of directors of the company. Active use by the authorising authority may also have sides to possible liability towards third parties. In addition, the company’s pension schemes have a direct impact on the company’s operating profit or loss as well as on future liabilities. In view of this, I am aware that the company's pension relationship is a commercial assessment of the company's management, not the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1236	I thank you for your answer. Let me first say that a prerequisite from both the Workers' Party and several other parties in order to agree to the transformation from state enterprises into a limited liability company was firstly that sales could only take place up to 50 pst. The second was that the employees' rights, including the pension scheme for those who were already there at the time of the conversion into government enterprises, were to be continued. This is clear from Innst. 367 S, which is that setting - not Innst. 366 L – which was the starting point for the parties' negotiations when we had this matter in the committee, and which was also an important part of the debate we had in Stortinget on 8 June, as the Council of State remembers. I'll almost say that Innst. 366 L was like a sand strike setting, almost an attachment to the other setting, because it was Prop. 79 LS and Innst. 367 S we discussed in committee. Nevertheless, despite what the Council of State has said, I would like to ask whether she who owns will follow the board in terms of further development and what happens to employees' pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1245	As I had in my previous answer, we have followed up that comment, and the employees who were in the State pension fund, SPK, have continued in the SPK in connection with the conversion to AS. This is in the same way as was done in the first transformation, and as has also been done in the transformation of other state enterprises into limited liability companies. Then, in particular, Telenor, NSB and Post are the important ones. It is also quite right, as the committee unanimously pointed out, that there can be a sale of 50 pst. or, where appropriate, a larger sale if the new buyer has a significant State holding. Of course, this is something on which the committee was unanimous. At the same time, I want to be clear that, like the other companies that have been converted, it is the decision of the board. We as the owner had, in my opinion, contributed to disrupting the division of roles and responsibilities if we intervened with ownership in this area. But there are, of course, discussions that all owners of all types of boards and general meetings naturally follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1254	It's a history of this matter. If we go to the year's negotiations on pay and working conditions, it is true that it is the employees who were in the company in 2012, i.e. when it was transformed from a defence workshop to a state enterprise, it is the subject of which has continued its membership in the State pension fund. This is one thing we have to follow up on, because it was one of the prerequisites that we were involved in the transformation. It is also clear from the wording that our primary position was that it was still to be a state enterprise. If it is the case that employees' rights deteriorate after a year has passed, we have to consider introducing a Document 8 proposal, which in that case will have a suspensive effect. What I want to ask the Council of State, regardless of the role distribution between the board and the owner, is that she is at least following the evolution of the rights and pension schemes of the old employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1261	As I said, it is natural for an owner to follow this without using the ownership power in that question. I would also like to stress that what is contained in Option 366 L, «the committee further notes that it is the responsibility of the board of directors to assess the future pension relationship of the company», of course, has also provided the basis for the government to follow up on the fact that the transfer or transformation itself does not lead to any change in the employee's pension relationship. That is, the current AIM has two pension systems, both a SPK system and another system for those who were not in the SPK during the 2012 transformation. I believe it is important that the state that owns exercises its ownership in a clean and professional manner. It's some of the things that characterize the Norwegian and Nordic way of driving state ownership. Then you also have to respect the roles of government and owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1277	This question falls because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1291	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1299	‘In meeting with Findus Tønsberg on 28 September this year, we were told that the Norwegian production of frozen vegetables is at risk due to a deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian vegetables. The reason is that the import protection of vegetables is significantly weakened over time and that customs duties on foreign vegetables are low. Findus is currently processing vegetables from a number of Norwegian producers. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this matter and consider measures to enhance the competitiveness of Norwegian vegetable producers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1306	The current rates of customs duties on vegetables and other agricultural products are bound by the WTO agreements and other international agreements, such as: trade agreements with the EU. Negotiations are now taking place in the WTO on the further liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. Developments are moving towards more open markets, and agriculture needs to adapt to the new competitive situation. Norway, as a country and Norwegian agriculture, is totally dependent on open trade. Greens currently have significant competition from imports. The sector has been in the habit of having such competition for a long time. The Norwegian goods have a price disadvantage in the Norwegian market, they also have great advantages, compared to imported goods. Different factors may be involved, such as the proximity of the fresh product market or other quality advantages linked to the Norwegian product or to the mode of production. A good example of this is Norwegian strawberry production. It is a competitive advantage enjoyed by Norwegian agriculture, which offers opportunities and market potential. Greens have over time shown that they are able to handle this competition. We have had a great and positive development for a lot of products, and manufacturers have shown the ability and willingness to change and adapt to this market situation. Vegetable producers receive financial assistance on agricultural agreements, including: potatoes, vegetables, fruit and berries and district parcels. The subsidy rate for Norwegian vegetable production is very similar to the value created by the sector. It is crucial that the industry continues to strengthen its competitiveness, as it has now done, and takes advantage of its domestic competitive advantage. I believe that the most important contribution we can make to Norwegian food production is to make sure that the market adjustment is successful, and that it also provides a basis for growth in domestic production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1319	I thank you for the answer, but if the import protection is not real, Norwegian agriculture, in this case the vegetable producers, but also our industry, will lose its competitiveness in the Norwegian market. Findus expresses a strong concern for what is now happening. These are Norwegian jobs and Norwegian food production. The Labour Party is also concerned about this with trade and that we are following up our international commitments, but we also believe that, like other European countries, we must ensure real import protection for our agricultural products. Today's WTO agreement makes it possible to find solutions, cf. the changes that our government made in the case of swedes. I ask again: is the Council not willing to find solutions, when there is such a strong concern for Norwegian vegetable producers, to ensure producers and to ensure important industrial jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1328	I think we are fooling Norwegian farmers if we believe to increase customs protection at a time when the countries in the world are dealing more and more with each other, providing security over time. What gives certainty to Norwegian farmers, such as for all other sectors, over time, is that an actual market adjustment takes advantage of the opportunities we have in Norway, for example. technology and continued efficiency and productivity development both at the farm and in the food industry. It is the most important steps that can be taken to ensure a sustainable basis for profitable jobs in Norway, whether at the primary level or at the industrial level. So it's customs protection for the green producers today, but by further increasing customs protection, one of the Norwegian trade is weakening, and I don't think we're used to it as a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1333	There's really a concern out there, and I'll almost recommend the Council of State to take a trip to Findus to talk about this, and that we have a different view of what a real customs protection is. I also remember that the Stortinget in several crossroads has been very clear that import protection should be ensured, and we stand together that Norwegian food production should be based on Norwegian resources. Norwegian consumers want vegetables, and I also see that the attitudes towards Norwegian-produced food are very strong. More and more vegetables are now being imported that compete with the Norwegians, and according to Findus, import vegetables are also included in the food chain’s own brands. The working party has long been concerned that consumers should make informed choices, which we must ensure through good labelling of the content and origin of the foodstuffs. It also applies to the own brands of the chains. Is that what the Council of State shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1342	It is definitely so that its better choice for consumers will be able to go through the brand scheme, the better it is. At the same time, if we just increase by branding, it can quickly shine like a jungle in which it's hard to navigate. This makes us dependent on having targeted brand schemes that are recognisable for consumers over time. So I think that instead of having a number of brand schemes, we need to have some that work well. We see, for example: that the markings that Matmark now has on the Norwegian products are branded by many consumers. It is important to find the goods if you want to choose Norwegian. But I think that Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian vegetable production – fruit and berries – have adventurous potential to continue to develop, continue to increase production. And we're going to continue to facilitate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1349	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-12.ana.ud179e1363	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
