ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e79	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Arnold Weiberg-Aurdal died on February 3rd this year, 90 years old. He represented the Central Party from More and Romesdal from 1969 to 1985 – all four periods as a member of the Storting Transport Committee. Weiberg-Aurdal was born in Ålesund in 1925, but it was at Velle in Sykkylven he lived most of his life. In his youth he was very concerned with all kinds of sports and was competitive boxes for several years. He also won a gold medal in the Holmenkolstafat in 1947. After World War II he applied for admission to both the War School and the Agricultural College at Ås and came in both places. The choice fell at the Agricultural College. Being a farmer lay his heart nearest. Weiberg-Aurdal became master sagronomist in Stranda municipality and later in Sykkylven, but later the political career speeded up. After several years as a local government representative, he became rapporteur, for the Central Party, in 1964 – a position he held until 1969, when he set the course for Oslo and Løvebakken. He also returned to both the local government and the rapporteur's chair after 16 years at Stortinget. For two periods he was the head of the Storting's Committee on Transport, and it was a great day for him when three major bridge projects in More and Romesdal were adopted at the same time. He was also very concerned with defence and foreign policy, was a member of the Council of Europe and NATO Parliamentary Assembly and was twice delegated to the UN General Assembly. He himself felt that in 1975 the Agricultural Equalization Decision was the most positive to think back to the single decision that had been given the greatest importance and positive ringing effect on rural development. Weiberg-Aurdal had a long line of trusts locally, and as a pensioner he engaged himself – almost naturally – in the Sykylven Pensioner Team and in the Pensioner Association in Molde. He himself said he had it embedded, from nature, that he had to be there something happened. For the last few years, health was failing, but until recently he was occupied with the farm, and that the earth would be handed over to the next generations in better condition than when he took over it himself. We thank you for a great commitment through a long life in service to others and brighten peace over Arnold Weiberg-Aurdal's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e102	The representatives of the Board of Vegar Solhjell and Iselin Nybø, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, now takes the seat. There are three applications for a permit: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen from 5 April until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on leave for the representative Eirik Sivertsen from 5 April until 7 April to take part in the Arctic Economic Development Forum in Washington from the representative Trond Giske on care leave from 5 April to 18 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften from 5 April until further notice and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren from 5 April until 7 April for the county of South-Trøndelag: Audun Otterstad from 5 April until 14 April
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e162	Tone-Helen Toften, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren and Audun Otterstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e168	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e178	The representative, Mrs Marthinsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e182	On behalf of the representatives Truls Wickholm and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a strategy with measures to ensure that companies with State ownership comply with the notification of ownership and ensure the maximum degree of transparency related to cash flows and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e187	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e203	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e210	I would like to thank the representatives of the Labour Party for raising an important debate into the main hall. Employees who notify play an important democratic role. International studies show that about half of illegal conditions are covered by just alerts. Therefore, it is so important that conditions are made as best possible to enable the very type of critical relationship to be identified and raised. Noting that critical, unreasonable and even illegal conditions at work may be a very difficult thing to do. Most of us have a loyalty to the boss, to our colleagues and to the workplace as such – fortunately, we must be able to say – but such loyalty can also make it difficult to tell when it is necessary to do so. Of course, it would be particularly difficult to tell if you have reason to fear represals. We know that as many as every four Norwegian employees think they will be met with the boss's disapproval if they come with a critical view of the working conditions where they work. One should be careful with zero visions, but in this case I think we should be able to say that it is always a goal to create a society of powerful citizens, where no one is afraid to stand up to authorities, nor his own boss. The day’s bill on alerts came into force on 1 January 2007. Notification is defined here as the case where employees report critical aspects of the enterprise. In addition, the alert shall be made in a defensive manner and employers must demonstrate in the event that a warning is illegal. The main objective of introducing these new rules in its time was to indicate that alerts are both legal and desirable. In addition, practice showed that it was necessary to strengthen legal protection for alerts. Research in Norway has shown that there are more frequent warnings here than in other countries. At the same time, half of Norwegian workers do not seem to be alerting about conditions they consider to be serious and critical, and the main reason is fear of represals. In view of this, there is a joint committee that is now some that there is a need to strengthen the regulatory framework for further alerts. As a result of the signature of the new work environment law, the government is already making changes to the laws to strengthen the situation of the alerts. They are working on proposals to make alert procedures mandatory, to set minimum requirements for the content of internal alert procedures, and to the extent to which alert protection should be extended to hired workers and self-employed workers. It's very positive. We're looking forward to the result. At the same time, there is now a number in the Committee to set up a wide-ranging group of experts to go through today's alert procedures and make proposals on how to strengthen alert protection. The Committee held a hearing on 9 February and the Hearing Officers supported the need for reinforced alert protection. Representatives from the media also called for the requirement for defence alerts to be problematic and should be taken out of the law, and that there is a need for a review of the wording ‘critical conditions’. If increased warnings of critical circumstances are to be achieved in practice, it is entirely decisive that the legal paragraphs are informative to potential alerts and that the restrictions on the right of alert are as far as possible provided by the legal text and are accurately stated. It will provide greater security for the employee who chooses to go to the step of noticing critical issues in his enterprise. The current wording that ‘the worker’s warning procedure must be sound’ does not provide the security needed by the notifier. Instead, it shifts its focus away from the critical aspects of the enterprise and to questions as to whether the notifier has acted critically in the way it is warned. In view of this, there is a need for a review of the ‘defensive alert’ and ‘critical conditions’ outlines in the legal text. It must be assessed to what extent the conditions lead to workers notifying of critical circumstances, or whether the circumvention in practice creates an excessive alert threshold. This was something that several hearing authorities were busy about, and now the Stortinget government is asking to look at exactly the constraints in the legal text. I think that's wise. In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a good cooperation on an important matter, which fortunately is also raised in public on repeated occasions, so that we can see, as a magnificence, how the Alarm Code can be even better and even more so as to facilitate safe conditions in the individual workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e238	Thanks to the case rapporteur for a simple explanation of the case, which is based on the fact that the Workers' Party believes that alerts need a stronger protection. We build this on research, on issues in the media and on a number of requests from the desperate individuals. The direct reason for the proposal is the Monika case in the Hordaland police district and the report by lawyer Jan Fougner, ordered by the Ministry of Justice. The police investigator has received the most attention in the media, but the case also includes three other alerts – two police lawyers and one HMS officer. One police lawyer submitted a new notification case after relocating. Fougner's report is shattering. It gives the investigator confidence that he has been properly notified and that his employer has broken the Working Environment Act. The on-the-job warning climate was bad. He himself was defined as the problem and ended up getting sick. Fuugner said the following about the employer's management: ‘They have not understood the rules. It is quite clear that this was a loyal warning, it was factual and reasonable. It was a school example of how to notify internally.’ On March 20, this year, the head of the Police Association was interviewed at Dagsrevyen, recommending his members not to give notice, because the consequences for the individual are too great. So this happens, even in the public sector, despite the fact that the Storting has repeatedly been crystal clear that alerts are desirable, necessary, should be taken seriously and certainly not met with represals. Had the case from Hordaland still been an exception, unfortunately there is much to suggest that this is not the case. The size has dealt with alert protection in each single magnification period since 2001, perhaps even before. In 2004, new and strengthened constitutional provisions on freedom of expression were adopted. In 2006, the Stortinget adopted a new provision on the protection of alerts in the Working Environment Act § 2-4. We made it clear that alerts are legal and wanted, internally and externally. We strengthened the protection against retaliation in Section 2-5. The employer must prove that the warning, if any, is incorrect and that there has been no retaliation. During the last period, we discussed two representatives from the Left and the Progressive Party, respectively, and during this period an interplay from today's case rapporteur, from whom I was personally allowed to pick up points, to my contribution when the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly last June dealt with the issue of alert protection from a human rights perspective. A new Convention for the protection of alerts was then adopted, with the support of the Norwegian delegation. In 2004, the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee, also taking part in Norway, invited all Member States to adopt a normative, legal and institutional framework for the protection of alerts. Nevertheless, we are still getting new examples of gross insensibility from irresponsible employers who do not know or ignore their obligations. When we see what can happen in the public sector, one can only wonder what happens privately. The new provisions of the Working Environment Act have been evaluated, including: by Fafo. Compared to other countries, Norway is not the worst. Our regulations are more comprehensive than in most other countries. It's more common here. Less exposed to represals. Half of those who are alerting believe that this has led to improvements. On the other hand, half of Norwegian workers say they are not alerting them of fear of represals. That's 50 pst. Too much. We have several bad examples, even from the time that the new provisions came into force. The Labour Party had therefore hoped that our proposals would be adopted today; that businesses should be required to introduce alert procedures; that the right to anonymous alerts should be established, but that the possibility of confidential alerts should also be clarified; that protection against retaliation should be strengthened; that freedom of expression should not be restricted, either for public or private employees; that everyone – both permanent, temporary and temporary – should be included; and that tripartite cooperation should be strengthened because the evaluation shows that it is easier to alert when there are trustees at work who can assist. We understand that the setting is not going to happen here today. Subsidy therefore, we will vote in favour of the majority proposal for a wide-ranging group of experts. It's at least a step in the right direction. In the end, we agree with the SV and the Central Party that there may be a need to review governance models in the public sector, but we believe that there is another debate, and that this is a matter of keeping focus on alerts matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e269	Should the representative address the proposals of the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party and SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e272	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e277	The representative Lise Christoffersen then addressed the proposals made by the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e280	This is an important matter. There are many examples that alerts can be crucial for the detection of unculture and crime. The Working Environment Act clearly states that the employee has the right to inform about critical aspects of the job. The law has three warning provisions, which came into force in 2007: § 2-4, on the right to notify of critical matters, § 2-5, on the prohibition of meeting the alerts with represals and § 3-6, that the establishments should, as a general rule, be obliged to have internal alert procedures. During the preparation of the law, the warning provisions were subject to a lot of debate. It was discussed whether the rules were clear enough, and whether they would provide adequate protection for the alerts. In particular, the safety requirement in § 2-4 was much discussed. Several thought that the wording of the law was too unclear, and that it would lead to less warning of critical circumstances. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left, which represent the majority of the Committee, believe that the same thing today is true when the legislative proposal was under consideration. The phrase ‘the worker’s warning procedure shall be sound’ in paragraphs 2 to 4 does not contribute to the security required by the alert. The wording removes the focus from the critical circumstances of the enterprise and from the question of whether the alerts have acted critically in the manner in which they are notified. The right refers to what we meant when the bill was discussed in Innst. O. No 6 for 2006-2007, where the Right, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left then opposed the requirement of sound warning. We are promoting today – together with the Progress Party and the Left – proposals for decisions to consider ‘where the conditions ‘responsible alert’ and ‘critical conditions’ create an too high alert threshold’. Fafo and the law firm Arntzen de Besche carried out an evaluation of the warning rules on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in 2014. The conclusion was that the warning rules in the Working Environment Act are working as intended. The rules provide a strong protection for the warnings. It appears that the Norwegian alert rules are among the most comprehensive and strict in both the Nordic and international contexts. There are relatively many workers who are alerting, and the alerts have largely good experience telling us about critical circumstances. Nevertheless, the report also shows that many – almost 50 pst. in a study – refrain from notifying of the fear of represals. Although the Labour Environment Act has clear rules, it suggests that some have encountered very difficult situations in warning of serious and critical situations at work. Media has written about several major, serious issues that have had consequences for those who warn. The last known case is what has happened in the Hordaland police district, with Robin Schaefer in the Monika case. When the Stortinge dealt with changes in the Working Environment Act last year, Innst. 207 L for 2014-2015, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in comments to improve the situation of alerts. In particular, it was noted that cooperation between relevant supervisory authorities should be strengthened in order to improve information on the rights and obligations of all parties involved, that an awareness and information campaign on alerts in cooperation with social partners should be considered, that alert procedures should become a mandatory requirement, and that the law should clarify a minimum level of alert procedures. The majority of the Committee are pleased that the Council of State is following up the comments of the majority of the population, and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in the process of examining legislative changes to strengthen the situation of alerts. Proposals to make alert procedures mandatory, to set minimum requirements on the content of internal warning procedures and on the extent to which alert protection is to be extended to hired workers and self-employed contractors/traders. The Ministry also looks at how the confidentiality of alerts, i.e. Anonymity, best practice, and how workers’ statutory rights to alert must not be restricted by, for example: alert procedures of an establishment. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left, are committed to making the best possible arrangements for critical situations to emerge and to put an end to them. Both legislation and procedures in each activity must support the protection of alerts. The majority of the Committee looks forward to the government returning to the Stortinget with a case on changes to the alert rules. The majority will follow Unio's input to the hearing in this case by asking the government to set up a wide-ranging group of experts that is going through today's legislation as a whole, and promoting proposals for decisions on how to further strengthen alert protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e301	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for raising an important issue that affects many. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. It is not a new issue we are discussing here today, much of the issue addressed in the proposal, was also discussed in depth as we reviewed and modernised the Working Environment Act a year ago. The protection of alerts is a matter that is close to my heart and the heart of the Advance Party. For many years we have fought for alerts to be able to tell about critical, dangerous, illegal circumstances in their businesses without fear of reprisals or dismissal. In most of the Norwegian businesses, most of them are legal and regular, with the concern of both owners, customers and employees, but there are exceptions. Some relationships might be just the ones on the inside that know and can reveal. It is therefore so important that they can provide information either to the relevant authorities, to the media or to the public in any other way. It states that today's law came into force on 1 January 2007, but it does not state that the Storting has discussed the protection of alerts several times, both before and after the amendment. Among other things, my party traps Bård Hoksrud, Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen and Vigdis Giltun made suggestions on the evaluation of the alert paragraph and its impact as late as 2010. In that consideration of the theme, the red-green parties were, to say the least, very cool in realizing that there was still a barrier for those who consider standing up, but the time and also several examples of the recent past have clearly shown that the law can and should be improved. That's why I'm glad that the government parties make it so clear that we want a review of the rules, and that together with our support parties, we seem to have it sorted out. For the Progress Party, it is important to take care of the individual. In this context, we see that even though we have only had a minimal number of cases through the legal system, they require matters that go through the legal system and become public, much of it applies, both during the case itself and not least in retrospect. I believe that all of us sitting on the Stortinget are still receiving feedback from individual individuals on critical issues in the individual workplace. But many of the feedback also says that when one sees the experience of other alerts that have emerged, there are many who choose to drop out and move on with an important matter, which should have been handled to the most extent. The party wants to set the right course to take care of everyone who wants and should be alerted. We want to take them seriously, both in the process and not least in the future. For us, this clearly shows that the paragraph does not work as well as it should, and I am glad that we now, together with the cooperation parties, get to grips with it, put down the sample that will now go through this – in addition to the work that the government is already doing. Then I record that the Christian People's Party has a loose proposal that is in the salapp, which I expect will be promoted later today. It's a proposal that might make sense, but we still want to let the sample we're putting down go through this and see if this is one of several tools that can be right to achieve the common goal we have. That's why we're going to vote against it today, but this is something that the sample assesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e318	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for a very good attitude. In view of the rapporteur's earlier involvement in these kinds of matters, I am sure that he has done an important job in the committee, and I would like to thank him for that and give him credit for, because this field is – as has been highlighted by many – very important. Then, like others, I will also bring forward the work that has been done over a longer period of time, and most recently through the negotiations on new work environment law, where we have also taken important steps that we are looking forward to. In the case of warning procedures, hopefully they will improve and also be made mandatory. But I also want to stay a little bit with the Monika case. There are several people who have done it, and it's not for no reason. I've asked myself many times the question: what if Robin Schaefer hadn't dared to warn? Then we had a case about a young girl, a little girl, where the case by the police had ended with a conclusion that it was a suicide. However, due to a warning, the case ended – at least provisionally – with a view, and that it appears to be a killing. We need to ensure a culture where it's possible to alert, where it's possible to say from, and where one hopefully releases such kinds of things and conflicts, but that it's done in a good way. That's why the routines are extremely important, it's anti-conflict, it can make sure that one can report in a good way, that one is being listened to, and that management is handling such kinds of things in a good way. But then we also know, unfortunately, that in some cases it ends up for different reasons of conflict. And when the League of Police, which has experienced the Monika case – or the Schaefer case – is as clear as they are, they actually warn against alerting because they do not want their members to go through the process or get the experience that Schaefer has done, I think we have to take it seriously. That is why I am very pleased with what the Committee chooses, namely to set up an expert group to look further at what measures can ensure that it is improved. I don't think that's how you just solve it with laws. That is why the Christian People's Party is not going to support the proposals of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, because when I talk to the Joint League of Police, they are also clear that there are not necessarily laws that need to be changed, but that is culture, and then they also point to representatives. That is why it is this loose proposal – which is not distributed in the hall but which is on the saddle – comes. We want an assessment, i.e. to ask the government to assess the creation of an agent or a separate unit under the Labour Inspectorate, which may be such a good idea. The point is that when the conflicts come, there is a need for an independent body to make sure that the matter is looked at with new eyes, independent eyes, and that those who warn are taken seriously. I think that such a function can also mitigate the conflicts, because one can come in earlier, and it will be useful for employers. When they are unsure about how to handle a matter, they can receive advice and guidance. Not least, it will also be useful for those workers who experience powerlessness, they don't know where to go anymore, and they just experience putting their heads in the wall, like in the Monika case, where one thinks and believes and sees that here there's something much more serious: where should a go? Then I think such an agent can be a good solution. However, when the majority – and insofar as subsidized also the whole Stortinget – is going to be in favour of an expert group, I think it is natural that it should be assessed there. And therefore, when the representative of Wiborg says he won't support it because it should be assessed there, I think he can support the proposal, precisely because it has to be assessed there. That's the point. This is not a conclusion that one should have an agent, or that one should have an alert unit either, this is an assessment of it, and I think it would be natural to do so in that expert group. We need the alerts. It's important. It is important that they are taken seriously, and it is important that at least they do not get their lives ruined when they take the brave grip and reveal things where the bosses, the management, the culture unfortunately have not been revealed before. That is why I am addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e335	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e339	Warning through alerts is a sign that something is not working well in the company or in the organisation. Warning is something more than freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is everyone's right to participate in the general social debate, also in their work – also in their work in the public sector, whether it is in education, it's in health, or it's in emergency services, to name a few. In the case of alerts, most often occur after the conditions have been resolved internally within the organisation. Warning is something a warning looks like it has to when one does not arrive in another way. That's my understanding of the topic we're now talking about. Therefore, the Centre Party agrees that we should clarify the warning management procedures, ensure the possibility of having anonymous alerts and not have access to regulatory restrictions on freedom of expression, on which some try. We agree that one needs to strengthen tripartite cooperation in order to increase the level of organisation, and we agree that one should clarify by law that the alert rights include all workers, both permanent, temporary and rented. As far as employment is concerned, it is quite obvious that those who gain good knowledge of the situation of the organisation or the enterprise through a regular employment have the best conditions for notifying of conditions that are not as they should. It is much more difficult for people who have temporary employment, and I would say that those who are hired by crew companies, for example, actually have no other than a theoretical opportunity to notify. The employment situation is very central. But, as I said, warning through alerts is evidence that something does not work well in a company or an organisation. This brings us to the organisation, culture and management of the business. Any private organisation must have an organisation, a culture and a management that is effective, that is inclusive and that gathers the flock working in that enterprise. We see that skilled business managers and reputable companies over time have been able to establish such a culture. When it comes to public matters, there's a lot left behind. One of the reasons why much is left behind is that the leaders are not so conscious of establishing an organisation, a culture and a management that is such that those in the first line have sufficient responsibility to make the necessary decisions. Thus, it becomes easy to exercise a rigid system, which makes it not interesting for the employee who is a teacher, a health professional or a police officer, or for the organisation in which one is employed to make the best effort by the employees it has. That is why, together with the Socialist Left Party, the Centre has promoted in this setting a proposal on governance models in the public sector, which is necessarily closely linked. We say that we are asking the government to ‘ review public sector governance models with the intention of removing time-consuming bureaucracy, reporting, control and detail management, and instead of allowing employees to use their professional judgement and trust their assessments’. This is part of the core of the matter that we're discussing, that's a natural part of the whole. The organisations that bring this with them will need less alerts and alerts, because they have incorporated it into their culture that for a long time the organisation is developing, for the benefit of everyone. It is particularly true that, for example, the Progress Party – but also other parties here in the Chamber – will not support such a proposal; it should have been entirely seaworthy. At the end of the day, I would just like to say that the Central Party has a subsidiary vote in favour of the majority's proposal for Decisions I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e360	Perhaps the representative will take up the proposal behind the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e363	That's absolutely correct. It's now taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e368	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e371	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for lifting a very important matter and also thanking the case rapporteur for a particularly good work. There is a high risk of alerting in Norwegian working life today, despite the fact that we have relatively good legislation. Research shows that many people, as others have referred to, are not alerting because the risk is too great. In fact, the League of Police has said that they will no longer advise their members to notify, because they believe that the risk of potential consequences is too great. It's a serious warning to society. It is also a very important message to us as a legislative assembly that those who warn are often subjected to enormous burdens. The minority of the Committee, in its proposal, asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to strengthen the protection of alerts against retaliation. I would like to highlight this little because the Working Environment Act provides a special protection today – opinions that satisfy the conditions of being an alert trigger requirements for the employer’s organisation for the treatment of alerts received – but it has not been given that an employee is supported in his assessment of what can be regarded as critical matters. It may also have consequences, including: how to further assess the legality of alleged retaliatory actions. We know that cooperation problems can arise in alert cases, and we know that matters that should be handled as alert cases end up being handled as a personnel matter. We also know that some people experience the situation as threatening, negative, and a very big personal impact. With the widespread governance and management culture that can be called the ‘zero error culture’ – as we see in the world of work today, especially in the public sector – the danger of detection, detection, detection or elimination of mismanagement. Therefore, it is important that the Storting protect alerts and provide alerts against improper treatment and reproducibility. Freedom of expression is a central value in our society and also in our working life. The protection of the perpetrator and the perpetrator of illegalities is essential for workers to have the freedom of expression laid down in the Constitution and the Working Environment Act. I believe that there are good reasons to say that today the conditions of freedom of expression must be strengthened in working life, because we see that the demands of loyalty have a growing spread. Norwegian Management Barometer shows that increasing demands are being made on the loyalty of employees to managers. There must be significant changes in attitude to this. We also see that management systems such as New Public Management and the like in both the private and public sectors constitute a serious obstacle to changing attitudes to freedom of expression and to alerting. It is therefore necessary to review management systems that contribute to a culture where warnings are feared, because the ‘zero error culture’ considers measurements and quantitative objectives as the definition of success or slaughter. Furthermore, I would like to point out the problem of secret final agreements in the workplace, which can cause people to be pushed into agreements, while it should really be a warning issue that should be pursued. I would also like to point out how important it is that leaders who reciprocate with alerts have to be held accountable for their positions. It would be preventive and positive. I would also like to point out how important it is both for the employer to have increased competence and for the business to get in place how to handle alert cases. Finally, I would like to say that SV subsidiaryly supports the majority's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e386	I would first like to thank the proposers for contributing to the debate on an important matter. I feel that there is a broad consensus that we should have a good warning protection in Norway. We have seen several examples, including recently, of the fact that alerts can be absolutely essential for correcting errors and deficiencies. Whereas rules and other measures taken to protect warnings must ensure a high level of legal protection for workers; The rules must also give a clear signal that warning of critical circumstances is something we actually want. When the alert rules came in 2006, it was a prerequisite that the rules should be evaluated after they had worked for a while. A broad evaluation was carried out between 2013 and 2014. The evaluation concluded that the legal framework is essentially functioning as intended. I'm glad. But, as the committee points out, alerting is not risk-free. The evaluation also shows that there is still a potential for improvement and that further action is needed to improve the situation of alerts. In this respect, I would also like to stress that it makes an impression when I read that it is trusted people who warn their colleagues against alerting, because they believe that the burden that comes with it is too great. We don't want it like that, and neither can it be in Norwegian working life. The Ministry is examining legislative changes and other measures to strengthen the situation of alerts. We are working on proposals to make the obligation to have internal alert procedures mandatory and whether minimum requirements should be imposed on the content of alert procedures. It is also assessed whether the alert protection should be extended to hired and self-employed workers. We look at how the identity of alerts can best be preserved, and also that the right to alert must not be restricted by, for example, the right to alert. internal alert procedures of an establishment, as has been the case with others. The evaluation reports show that changes to the legislation alone are not sufficient to strengthen alert protection. How to deal with on-the-job alerts is very important. Identifying faults and shortcomings must be a natural part of the corporate culture in all parts of the world of work. Culture and attitudes to transparency and freedom of expression are important prerequisites for good alert protection. I therefore allow myself to point out that there is a need for this to be put more often and more clearly on the business agenda. How it can be done is close to looking at things together with the social partners. Another dimension is that public authorities can improve in providing good information and in receiving alerts in a good way. The Ministry has therefore entrusted the Labour Inspectorate with the task of managing a project together with other relevant supervisory authorities. The Labour Inspectorate shall provide a report on the project by 1 September of this year. I have noticed the wish of the majority of the Committee on a wide-ranging group of experts to review today's rules on alerts and make proposals on how to strengthen alert protection. I will follow up on this, of course. I also note that the majority of the Committee calls on the government to assess whether the basic concepts of the current rules – sound warning and critical conditions – create an excessive alert threshold. It is natural that the Department's ongoing investigation and alerted consultation are included as part of the work of the expert group. I intend to return to Stortinget after the expert group's recommendations have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e410	I have a few questions about the proposal that will be adopted, probably by a unanimous increase, about setting up an expert committee. Point 1: Does the Council of State believe that such an expert committee will delay the work on new provisions? Point 2: When the sample is to be reduced, will the Council of State ensure that the social partners are invited to participate? Paragraph 3: Does the Council of State have any opinion on when we can expect to get a new case in Stortinget, with proposals for new legal provisions on alerting? Is this going to happen in the current period, or are we going to have to wait longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e421	As far as delays are concerned, we are already working on this from the Department's side, and now we have to put this sample down, naturally. My goal, of course, is to do this as quickly as possible. First, we have to draw up a mandate, but this is a priority area for me and, of course, also for the Stortinget – I register it. My objective, of course, is that this should not delay the work. When a matter comes, I almost have to come back to, but as I said, this is a priority area, so I will come back as soon as possible. It is also natural for the parties to be involved in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e428	I would like to thank you for an offensive article and also for a good response to the reply now. I think it's important in the work to be done. The representative Wiborg says that it is natural that this group of experts looks at their own representative or a separate warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate, for example. My question is really just whether the Council of State agrees with that. Will it be part of the group’s mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e435	Now I must first assess what the mandate will look like. I'm open to discussing all the relevant issues in the expert committee, and of course it's also natural to include an agent in this. So I just want to say that what's most important now is that all businesses take on the serious situation that is, and that you establish a culture and attitudes for alerting. I'm very concerned that this kind of problem is not going to be parked in an agent – that other businesses can think that then it's the ones who take care of it. This is work that needs to be anchored, implemented, in each activity every day. Taking that responsibility is important, but if an agent is to be part of this work, I am open to it, but I have to almost get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e443	When a lot of experience is skeptical about the seriousness of the alert, it's because we've seen many examples of alerts and alerts ending up in personnel matters. Those who warn become a personal matter. This is incredibly serious for those involved. Not least, we have seen examples of this in the health sector. In Rjukan Hospital, we have seen an example that is very serious. A prominent person alerted, and it became a personal matter. Obviously this leads to that it is only the strongest and most authoritative who dares to warn. It is those who have the surplus and the strength to dry it and to stand through it – who dare to take the load that comes afterwards. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the alerts that have led to staff cases, in order to draw lessons from this, so that alerts can be secured against such circumstances?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e450	What the representative addresses is important. I think that in most of us, many of the stories about how employees are met, as we've heard through the media, make a strong impression. The review of the law has shown that it is good enough, but what we also see – and know from experience – is that this has not been implemented well enough in many workplaces. It is not a culture of warning, and it has not been properly implemented in the individual workplace. We are concerned, when we have the expert group set up, that it will review all the elements that need to be reviewed in order to clarify what needs to be clarified. But the most important thing is the work done in the enterprises – that one has a culture and attitude to alerting is a central part of the trust-chosen work, that trust-chosen people are active in their workplaces, among others. in training employees about their rights in such matters, so that they are better followed up. In principle, this is a job that needs to be done in the individual workplace. Now we're going to put down a selection of experts, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e457	It is quite obvious that this has not been implemented well enough. What's the problem is that those who don't implement it well enough can just keep going. There is no impact on the public sector leaders who treat alerts as a staff case. This is a management responsibility. That's what's at the heart of it. The Council of State says we need to have a culture of transparency. Well, that's good, that's good. But at the heart of this is that we need to have a culture in public enterprises – that is, where this is most intrusive – that leads to an empowering employee who can say from. It's an enrichment for the whole organization. Therefore, I am surprised that the Council of State does not go a little further into the entire organisational philosophy after which public activities are to be carried on – what is called, within other departments, operational management – namely giving the first line more responsibility and thus getting an interaction between the first line and the management for a good culture. This will reduce the need for alerts. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e462	As I say, the law is quite clear as to the rights of employees and alerts, and the obligations of employers. This is clearly enshrined in the law. What is the big task is to have the legislation implemented at the workplace and to comply with the laws. If the rights of employees are infringed and they are not granted their rights, trustees must also assist their employees. Employers have a clear responsibility to follow the law. The public sector must, of course, be a priority employer in this area. We see that this doesn't work well enough in many places, but you can't believe that it's the laws in themselves that are going to solve this. In this context, it is important that the parties to the workplace — trust-elected and employers — join forces and set up procedures to build culture and attitudes to these important issues. Notifications are important. They shall be taken seriously and followed up in each and every establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e469	When trusted alerts are warned against alerting, when we see that alerts experience a great deal of feedback from the employer, and when we see that alerts are treated as personal matters, it can be read as an expression of a wall of unculture in which truth must stand, in the hope of needing through. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State sees that governance models and management culture can influence the way warnings are handled in the workplace. If so, what will the Council of State do to ensure that the necessary change takes place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e474	I think we have good managers, and we have bad leaders, completely regardless of which governance model is in the individual workplace. But it obviously makes the impression when you hear stories that trust-elected people advise against alerting their employees, as we saw the police did a while ago. I am concerned that every employee who sees, discovers and experiences critical conditions at his place of work should be encouraged to notify. For most, it will be possible to walk the ordinary course of service. Others may have to do so in other ways — if you feel that the service path does not lead. I am concerned that we should have a working life where we are encouraged to warn about critical situations and that culture and attitudes are being built in the individual workplace. It is clear that trustees together with the employer have a great responsibility to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e484	A year ago, the editorial work in the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung was contacted by an anonymous source asking if they were interested in documents from a law firm in Panama. This was the beginning of what is now known as Panama Papers. We do not yet know the scope of this case, but we already see that this is about very valuable information for the public – also here in Norway. This case may seem to be outside the Norwegian Working Environment Act, but it illustrates three things in particular: alerting is necessary, in order for people to be able to alert, they have to feel secure that they are not exposed to source hunting, and it is important to have strong editorials that can capture and dig in such cases. Other examples are also mentioned in today’s debate, and what is disappointing is that several of the issues known in Norway were first addressed when they became known in the media. But too often journalists experience that people do not dare to speak and that information and access to information are being made difficult. We see that this is a democratic challenge. In my contribution to this debate, I would particularly like to highlight two aspects. Firstly, it is important to stress the democratic importance of freedom of expression and source protection. The right of expression is protected and enshrined in Section 100 of the Constitution, and it is also about society's need for information on important and critical issues. This is why several, including in this debate, point out that we are making stronger demands on the public sector to set a good example. They manage large resources on behalf of the community, and transparency and good warning procedures are also required. The second is that we need better alert mechanisms. Unfortunately, we see that many people refuse to notify us of critical circumstances, because they will feel absolutely safe before they, if any, warn, they are afraid of represals, and they may not know how to proceed. It is important that employers take their responsibilities and provide good information on how to proceed — and not least for good practice. Good tripartite cooperation and strong trade unions are important, and good law is important. I must say that I react strongly when the Police Joint Association goes out and says that they do not recommend warning, and that they have seen that it is harmful to health. It's alarming. Now we see that it's alerted an expert group. That's good, but we hope it won't be a lightning conductor for the government to postpone the matter, which is important. We therefore ask that, even if we vote against the proposals we have made on the matter, they be included in the work of the Committee of Experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e497	The community is not aware that circumstances that should have our warnings are not being warned because of a lack of protection for alerts. It's about having a good culture to warn you about things. For example, businesses depend entirely on effective and effective competition, such as: Both price cooperation and market sharing are offences that impede effective competition and the smooth functioning of the market. This has to be notified immediately. The reason why I take the floor here today is that I'm from Hordaland, represent Hordaland and have followed these alerts in the Hordaland police district. Robin Schaefer's warning in Monika-saka is so far the most important proof that we politicians have a very great responsibility to ensure adequate and effective protection for workers who warn of critical circumstances. It is a commitment to a well-functioning democracy, and it is a good rule of law. It's also a lot about our common responsibility as elected representatives to secure central and social critical values that we can essentially only focus on the importance of having and protecting, regardless of political affiliations. In my opinion, the mandate for the proposed expert selection will be central. I hope that both the majority of the population and the Council of State will see the benefit of a wide-ranging selection of experience and competences existing in this area, which will also receive a broad mandate within this working group. By that I think that this selection should have freedom to look at different things, for example. they we know from Hordaland police districts, and different models for strengthening alert protection in practice. The selection should assess whether an external warning room should be provided, as requested by several, and whether the Labour Inspectorate can be involved in a better and stronger way than they do in such cases today. It's great to hear that the Council of State is open to this. I also think that the focus must be on how existing rules are used, rather than just proposing new rules. It's also about culture, as the Council of State specifies. The special unit for police matters is investigating whether criminal acts had been committed in the alert cases, and the experience of the Hordaland Police Chamber itself, is an example of how the practice of alert protection from leaders locally and completely in the hierarchy, up to the Police Directorate with subsequent scrutiny, in practice scares from alerting internal critical issues, contrary to the intent of alert protection. We can't have it like that. The point is that the threshold – and culture – in order to warn must be at least as low as the size of the population in the preparation of the rules that actually apply as of today. It is a self-sequence of alarm protection, and it must be a matter of course that it is announced that it will be followed up in a trusting and good way, without fear of represals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e512	Thank you for many good recordings during the debate. I'll just take the word again to comment on a couple of them. First of all, to the loose proposal of the Christian People's Party on the ombudsmanship or the Labour Inspectorate: From the left's perspective, we have enough work to do in this country – more than enough, to be completely honest. But having a separate unit within the Labour Inspectorate is a thought we have more sense of. I appreciate the signals from the Council of State in the exchange of replies and assume that it will also be assessed in the expert selection, even if we are not going to vote for the loose proposal today. So to the Workers' Party, which had hoped that their own suggestions would be adopted. I understand that. But I can reassure the Labour Party that some of them are already adopted by the Stortinget, among other things. the case of internal warning procedures. It was agreed over a year ago, and in connection with that, I will encourage the ministry to keep a high pace of that work, for the time being, day by day. I am also pleased that the Labour Party subsidiaryly supports this by setting up an expert selection. I think that might be important. And then I hope that the Labour Party can support – that is well – the proposal for Decision II, to go under the terms of the law, where in the hearing it was quite clear, not least from the press agencies, that there is a threshold here. I appreciate the fact that the Center Party will support it subsidiaryly, and I hope the Labour Party will do the same. I think it might be important to get a review of it. Finally, to the expert selection: I look forward to getting results from it. However, I would like to say that the work that the Ministry has been commissioned to do a year ago, and with which I hope they are beginning to come to terms, should be put before the Storting regardless of this expert selection and before it comes to something, because that is what I expect to take some time. So I'm saying that it's putting down a selection right now, it's not going to be anything that exposes the work that's already going on. It should be possible to submit it on an ongoing basis to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e525	The debate today has shown that there is a broad political consensus that alerts are a good thing and that alerts should be taken seriously. The warning is tough enough in itself, if one should not also risk retaliation. Research, including: at the University of Bergen, it unfortunately happens too often. The credibility of the skilled person is questioned, the message is rendered harmless, ignored, rejected, relocated, subjected to threats, penalties and exclusion. That is exactly what the new rules were supposed to prevent. It's getting better. Fafo shows that the proportion of workers covered by alert procedures is now 53 pst. But that's not enough, and the routines have to be followed. We have many examples that alerts can be of great importance, far beyond our own workplace. The representative Arild Grande referred to one of them. The most recent example is the Panamanian case of hidden assets in tax havens, which even include DnB, where the state is the largest shareholder. The well-known alerts police investigator Robin Schaefer and trust leader Jan Erik Skog received partial upliftment through the 2015 Fritt Ord Prize for warning of major deficiencies in a crash investigation and serious corruption in bus deliveries in Oslo. But it took years of heavy personal stress before they finally got a pass. Not all alerts have a device around them. We had this fully noticed that Hadia Tajik mentioned our warning proposal in an interview in the newspaper. In my seat there are enquiries from people who have tried to alert, and who thanks to them have their lives turned around. The last enquiry came by e-mail late last night. In January I received the book «Modern oral basket» from Amelie and Dahle. They write about alerts in Statoil, Sector Alarm, Nav, Actis, Bærum kommune, Rana kommune, Staats rajerevern, NRK, Ontøe. Someone got a happy ending, others didn't. At the gallery here today, Monna Brinch, who has had a fight since the early 1980s on chemical use and health damage in the Oslo school where she was employed, is sitting. Her case is mentioned in a book about twelve alerts by Kjell Horn, with contributions from Henning Jakhelln. Monna Bronch was tough and took the case to the Supreme Court – without luck. The substances on which she has been notified are currently on the EU list of harmful substances with maximum levels far below the level to which she and others were exposed. She is 80 years old next year and hopes for a worthy ending. Where do I want this? We do not have the prerequisites for distinguishing right from wrong in the individual case. But now, when it seems that it carries in the direction of setting up an expert committee, I hope that the Council of State can also ask them to look at how alerts who have suffered injustice can be seen and get the chance to put a dot. I believe we owe that to Robin Schaefer, Jan Erik Skog, Monna Brinch and all the others. In the extension of what I am saying here, the Workers' Party will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party to evaluate the alert agent or a separate unit in the Labour Inspectorate. We'd rather be in the direction of the last one, but we're not absolutely locked up to it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e546	I also take the floor to comment on the Christian People's Party's proposal to create a separate alert agent or a separate alert unit at the Labour Inspectorate. The right, like the Progress Party and the Left, is committed to awaiting the work of the expert group. As the proposal for a decision has been formulated, there are no indications as to what the group of experts will produce from proposals for action and reinforcements. The proposal for a decision provides a formulation for an expert group to review today's rules on alerts in their entirety and to propose ways of strengthening alert protection. If there is a proposal for the creation of an alert agent or a separate alert unit at the Labour Inspectorate, we will of course consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e553	Where there's a bad culture for warning, there's a bad culture for general expression. It starts with freedom of expression at work on small matters in public – for example on budget. If one does not accept the small things – who then dares to notify when it really applies? I withdrew this with the relationship between alerts and personnel matters, not least in the health sector, and the Council of State said it was not implemented well enough. But what characterises very many alert cases, especially in the health sector, is that there are conflicts of interest. There are conflicts of interest that make these matters very demanding. There are conflicts of interest where those on the floor feel and see the matter differently from the supervision, for example the Health Authority or the County Doctor, who have the task of ensuring the legality of what is happening, but who are also, to a large extent, the State representative in the conversion processes that are taking place. There are a number of the migration processes that are happening, where there is a lack of honesty. There is a lack of honesty that makes employees react with disbelief that a case can be presented in a way that is so remote from the situation they are in and that they know how to resolve. We are in a situation where very many of today's transformations have a lack of honesty in them, because what is the consequence of the centralization going on is an increasing bureaucracy unless the influence of those in the first line is less. As a result, those in the first line are alerted because one sees that the security of the human beings is getting worse. This is very demanding, and there has to be a system review. I would say that in these conversion processes, the first commandment is that leaders are honest and say what the purpose of the process is. But it usually requires that the commissions that leaders get from politicians are also honest, and there's a lot left. So in the end, the Christian People's Party's proposal to assess the creation of an alert agent or a separate unit under the Labour Inspectorate may have a lot to do, but I want to say that this is going too shallow. It is a much more demanding matter, a much more serious matter in which we stand. I believe this will lead to too much further red tape. On that basis, the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e566	SV will support the Christian People's Party's loose proposals in the matter. It is important to consider how to better structure alerts and alerts. Like the Workers' Party, I think it is most appropriate that the Labour Inspectorate should be responsible for this, rather than a new representative, but we can have a debate on this at a later stage. In the same way as it is important to have a structure for the care of alerts, it is appropriate to have a structure for the procedures and management of alerts at the individual workplace. Earlier in the debate, it has been called upon to include minority proposals in the work of the wide-ranging group of experts. We sincerely hope so from SV's side, but I also have some further requests for the work to be started after today, and also for the composition of the group. I would also like to mention that SV supports the invitation from the representative Christoffersen to go through known warning cases and look at both outcomes and justice in them. Furthermore, I believe it is necessary that alerts are represented in the group, that there are some people in the group who have experience on the body about what it means to present a truth that is often questioned, and not least I would strongly urge that the social partners be represented. It's not necessarily a matter of course, even though we from SV think it's crucial. Therefore, I would like to encourage the Council of State to share its thoughts on the role of the parties in the future work, and also thoughts about whether the social partners should be represented in such an expert group. From the point of view of the SV, I think that there are few who are better experts on the strengths and weaknesses of the labour force than just the parties, and that this is where the core of a solution lies – and for constructive cooperation in a more positive direction, towards transparency and a cultural change in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e577	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e580	Just a few things that have been asked in the debate: Erlend Wiborg mentioned the proposal of the Progress Party in the previous period and said that the red-green parties were relatively lukewarm to it. I just want to remind you that I referred to the proposal of the Advance Party in my first post. At that time, there was no evaluation of new rules – it is now. Then several have referred to the terms ‘responsible warning’ and ‘critical conditions’. We have a note asking the government to consider how these concepts can be clarified, and when it is seen in the context of clearer procedures, we hope that it can lead to greater security both for the alert and for the alert. For the latter, it is also necessary to be able to impose certain requirements on the content of the alert. So to the question from the case rapporteur about how we address ourselves to II: we also give our subsidiary support, and that means that we subsidiaryly support both I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e589	As it appears that the proposals from, among others, The Labour Party is voted down, and reference is made to the expert committee to be set up, so it is important for us to get feedback from the Council of State on whether these recordings will be performed when designing the mandate of the sample and when making the composition of the sample. In addition, I could imagine a confirmation from the Council of State that what is stated in the comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party is being assessed, and that an assessment is being made of whether restrictions on the rights of employees to participate in the general social debate may be contrary to the Basic Law § 100 on freedom of expression. It will be an important clarification, that this will be considered, as clarifying it will solve much of the challenges and concerns that many feel about the protection of their rights to opinions. Then there is also a desire to get an assessment of how to strengthen source protection. Many journalists report that they meet nervous employees who are afraid to express themselves, all the time they don't know whether or not source hunting is being conducted, and whether or not their identity is being revealed in serious cases. I can mention as an example, which can be considered: in Sweden, editors do not have the only right to protect their sources; they also have a duty to protect their sources. It might be interesting to hear whether the Council of State is willing to signal that this is something that the Committee of Experts should consider, in order to increase the security of future alerts — that their identity is not revealed, and that, if they need it, they have the right and the possibility of anonymity. It will be important for effective source protection in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e598	I got some questions for clarification on the tap. I just want to say briefly, first of all, everyone has the right, of course, to speak out and participate in the social debate – it should just be lacking. Employees obviously have that right, and they're still going to have that right, there's no doubt about it. What we're going to do now is follow up the Storting decision to set up an expert committee. There are some leads from the majority on what this committee of experts is going to discuss and address. My starting point is that there should be no restrictions on what the expert committee should discuss, but there must be relevant issues. But now we have to go back to the ministry, sit down and draw up the mandate. I want it to be as wide and appropriate as possible. When it comes to composition, I also have to come back to it, but I think it's natural that the parties also participate in this in some form. The important thing is that we get a sample that can now discuss relevant issues, and come back to us with what they think is important that we capture in law or regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e621	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e628	This is a matter where the proposers wish to amend the Working Environment Act by proposing the repeal of the second paragraph of Section 14-12. There is a provision allowing collective hiring of personnel from manning establishments in addition to the general rule of the Act on temporary needs. The proposal is supported by the Centre Party and the SV in the Committee, while the rest of the Committee rejects the proposal. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, have their own comments, the Labour Party has its comments, and the SV and the Centre have largely common comments, but sometimes some dissenting comments. The Working Environment Act, together with the main agreement between NHO and LO, the collective agreements and tripartite cooperation, sets a relatively good standard for Norwegian working life. It is the one used, and the main rule in Norwegian working life today, regardless of the purpose of addition, is regular employment. I would like to make it clear that the new general access to temporary employment does not apply to the hiring and therefore the use of recruitment agencies, as suggested by the proposers in their proposal. The right therefore disagrees with the proposers, who claim that access to a local lease agreement is no longer necessary because of the new rule. The legal provision that the Central Party wants to remove was incorporated into the Working Environment Act of the Stoltenberg I Government in 2000. The right considers that this provision contributes to ensuring solutions that are in the interests of both the employer and the employee. This applies in particular to industrial establishments in the districts which would otherwise have difficulty in providing sufficient labour. Norway is now experiencing challenging times for industry and working life. The provision that the Centre Party and SV now wish to remove has contributed to the safe employment of lessees and has prevented job relocations from Norway. The right will therefore strongly warn against the consequences of the proposal, even if they are unintentional. The centre batch tries a number of times to turn individual issues on the Working Environment Act into an EEA debate. There is relatively broad political outreach to the EEA Agreement in Norway – a very majority in the UK, a large majority of the population, and the social partners are very positive to the EEA Agreement. Just before Norway became part of the internal market in 1994, Stortinget adopted the Public Procurement Act. Generalisation of collective bargaining agreements means that certain parts of a country-wide collective bargaining agreement, such as: provisions on remuneration, working time and travel, diet and lodging expenses are made applicable to all workers carrying out work within the scope of the collective bargaining agreement. As of today, decisions on disclosure have been taken in a number of industries and areas. The Labour Inspectorate supervises compliance with pay and working conditions resulting from decisions on public service. In its proposal for a report from the Manifesto Analysis, the Central Party points out. I would point out that this is not a scientific report, but a political bias analysis. I am also aware that the NHO Service claims that the report uses their number of errors at very many and decisive points, and we wonder that this has been premissive of the facts in the draft representative. The government received relatively broad support when business was given the possibility of exemption from the temporary agency directive in 2014 through a regulatory amendment introduced on 1 July last year. Equal treatment is now considered to be satisfied by the inclusion of the lessees in a collective agreement concluded between the agency and a trade union of at least 10000 members. Staff members of a staff agency are secured against social dumping by their own collective bargaining agreement. They are also safe on proper working conditions negotiated over time. Today's legislation requires agreement between trade union and employer in a collective agreement company. The social partners work well to address today's challenges, and the right does not accept the premise of the proposers that trade unions be forced to conclude such agreements. The Working Environment Act applies to Norwegian business/working life and applies to all sectors. It is therefore unfortunate to adopt general changes for all based on a failed analysis for a single industry. For many employees, the manning industry is a good entry into the labour market, and in times of increased unemployment it can also be a good intermediate point between leave and new regular work. As a result, the industry can be a good contributor to the transition that Norway is undergoing. The legislation which the proposers wish to remove would have the effect of making it more difficult for Norwegian industry to secure competence, as well as threatening the viability of Norwegian companies that have won tenders, thereby jeopardising the normal jobs of these companies. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be rejected and annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e660	The working party would like to thank the proposers for putting the situation in the crew sector on the agenda. First of all, I would like to say that it would be easy for employees to come to Norway to use their skills here. It must be quick and easy for both employers and employees to be granted the necessary privileges so that competent workers can be obtained. After the EU enlargement, the number of Immigrant Workers has increased sharply. In the Labour Party, we're positive about it, but we're not blind because it brings challenges. Increasing labour migration has given us important labour force, but in parts of the world of work it has also led to problems of social dumping. The high cross-border movement of labour, together with the postponement of work tasks, increases the pressure on the Norwegian labour market model. However, the EEA Agreement is largely positive for Norway, and it has helped to strengthen the rights of many workers in Europe and Norway. Norway must continue to exploit the scope of action contained in the agreement in order to ensure that we are still able to have good employment regulation. New EU rules must not put obstacles in the way of measures that Norway has introduced or plan to introduce, for example: through our action plans against social dumping. Social dumping means that foreign workers are exposed to violations of health, environmental and safety rules or are offered unacceptably low wages. And we still have to work to develop schemes that ensure the safety of employees in pay and employment – schemes such as public administration, solidarity and tripartite industry programmes. When it comes to the manning industry, we see that the industry has grown significantly in the last ten to fifteen years. We have examples of companies where the fixed crew is just a smaller part of the total crew. The majority can be rented in, and we talk as a general rule about foreign workers. The reason for the opportunity to hire temporary workers was that there should be an addition to the regular, fixed staff, where there was a temporary need for labour. Instead, the manning industry has grown to be a major supplier of cheap and mainly foreign labour to important parts of Norwegian working life. The lessee shall have a free association with the principals, where the employer's responsibility is powdered. An excess of tenants challenge the Norwegian labour market model, and there is competition on pay terms, not on productivity. One consequence is that it becomes more difficult to carry out training in languages, HMS and subjects. When employers choose to bet on tenants instead of direct additions, they undermine their long-term structure of competence and value creation. Therefore, it must be a measure that the penetrating is limited as much as possible to the use of real workpieces and seasonal worktops. At the same time, we need to ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination through the use of tenants. Those hired must have at least as good pay and working conditions as if they were added directly by tenants. Although many people are serious and proper, the manning industry is also characterized by illegal and unlawful conditions and beggars for conditions in parts of the working life that are unacceptable. A competition based on the lowest possible wage level contributed to it. No one should wish to develop a situation in which more and more staff members find it difficult to cope with competition if they are to comply with statutory and collective agreements. We are therefore a few with the proposers in that there may be a need for stricter regulation of the manning industry, but when we do not want to support the bill, it is among other things. because we believe that the proposal to repeal the second paragraph of Section 14-12 here and now is too drastic, not least because it will challenge our EEA legal obligations. We must not forget that the right to negotiate is an important basis for the work being done to ensure the orderly conditions of accommodation. If we are to tighten up, it must be made clear whether there are local or central points that should carry out such approval and whether other forms of restriction should be introduced. In any case, the proposal should be sent on a regular basis. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that there is a need for a holistic review of the legislation around the tenants, and we would therefore strongly encourage the government to look at the conditions in the manning industry with a critical look and assess where and how it is possible to tighten up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e684	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for having gone through the matter well. I would like to point out that the Norwegian economy has proved to be robust and sustainable through predictable framework conditions, necessary moderation and ability to convert. We believe that a good and well-functioning labour market economy is based on a business life with many different actors, including the temporary and temporary employment industry, which can also help people outside the labour market to get a foothold within. But in a changing working life, the Working Environment Act also needs to be adapted and renewed in the light of changes in society and in working life, which I am glad today's government has taken on board – realizing that the working life and the wishes of business and people have changed since the 1970s. That is why, as I said, I am pleased with the changes we have made. But part of the well-functioning work life is natural that the manning industry is in. Manning and temporary employment agencies perform a good and important function, both for the individual employee and for businesses using the services. We fully recognise the manning industry as an actor equivalent to all other actors in Norwegian working life. It is interesting to note that a few years ago the Stortinget approved the EU agency directive, which parties were behind it. The Progress Party has always fully supported it, and the Labour Party has done the same. We supported the call for equal treatment by a single European trade union movement with regard to those employed by the recruitment agencies, those employed by them and those employed by ordinary hire firms. It is also interesting to note LO’s hearing opinion on 14 December 2010, which includes them. writes: ‘LO will further point out that the wording of Article 1 of the Directive – scope and Article 3 – definitions further underpins the preservation of § 14-12.’ [[...]] I also want to quote the opinion of former Prime Minister and Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg on NTB, dated 15 February 2012, where he says ‘it is a paradox that the trade movement in Europe is in favour of the directive and that it is referred to as a victory, whereas it is the opposite in Norway’. And on the other hand, ‘But that is the policy. We must deal with this." I support former Labour Party leaders and Prime Minister in that paradox, and we see this clearly here in the Chamber today. Of course, as different political parties in this Chamber, we may disagree on the content of the paragraph itself, but there is something quite different than suggesting that it should be abolished. Unfortunately, we know as we know that the LO went away from its position in the consultation round. We saw a fight within the Workers' Party, which more people fought against the temporary agency directive, even if social democratic parties and trade unions around Europe fought the directive. As I said, we saw so much winging from the Workers' Party. I think it is special that someone in a case that is actually about giving all employees equal rights and obligations, then chooses to go away from it. Finally, I would like to point out the contradiction which underlies the proposal of the representative himself, namely that the new general access to temporary employment does not apply at the time of hiring, and therefore has nothing to do with the use of agency staff. It is at best based on a misunderstanding and also shows a little of the reason – I think – that the proposal for a representative is so clearly rejected today. The representative Holen Bjørdal was concerned that most people act seriously and abide by the laws and regulations in force at all times. I fully agree with that, but then it is important that those we must then stop, and on whom we must insist are those who are unprofessional, and those who do not follow laws and rules – and not everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e718	There is a great distance in this case. It's a very important thing. It's not surprising that there's so different understanding of how we're going to organize work. There has been a conflict case in Norwegian policy since the beginning, and it continues. The case complex will become even more important in the future, because more and more workers are being affected by the topic we are discussing here today. The centre party is in permanent employment. We insist that you should have temporary employment under Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act, for clearly defined purposes. What we are now talking about is the change in the Working Environment Act §14-12, second paragraph, by suggesting that it be taken out. There is a paragraph that came into the year 2000, and it says that, in agreement with the trade union, staff can be hired from temporary employment agencies. When we propose to repeal Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, the second paragraph is because it undermines the safety of the workforce, and it presses other employers – and I would stress this – to start using recruitment agencies, because it is cheaper in the short term. This is about money. Any employer, any manager of a business must operate in such a way that it can survive in a tough competition, and competition is such that, in many cases, employment agencies are economically cheaper for the company in the short term. That's the way competition works -- it's the law of life. The background for the Central Party to address this proposal now is the extent of this. We got free movement of labour across borders through the EEA Agreement in 1994. It gradually developed over the first ten years, and then in 2004 we received the offer shock with ten new countries with very different pay and working conditions and much higher unemployment: Poland, the Baltic States, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. In 2007, we got more: Bulgaria and Romania. I want to refer to the detailed comments that the central part is behind in the setting, and take some main points. Social security depends on the law, the financial framework conditions, the ability to follow-up taxes, professional organisation, orderly relationships, and that we have workmates who take responsibility. The scope of employment agencies is very different in different sectors and occupational groups. Those who are most affected cannot use the Norwegian language and do not have knowledge of Norwegian social conditions in their job, which is crucial for carrying out the work. Therefore, the upper middle class has very little competition from manning agencies and little pressure on its income and pay and working conditions. It is enterprises and professionals in practical professions who have to pay the price because the majority of people want the development that is taking place. Construction, hotels, restaurants, trade, care for the elderly, agriculture, fishing, forestry and transport are examples. These are important professions in which thousands of Norwegian young people each year want to start their professional life, want to take up education and want to have a permanent and secure job. In the amendment to the Labour Environment Act of 7 April 2015, the Right and Advance Party, with the help of the Left and Christian People's Party, were given a majority in order to extend the possibility for businesses to use temporary employment in the event of a temporary need for more work assistance. It is Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act that several people have been involved in. I'm not going to go into it any further. The centre party was clearly associated with the organisations, the YS, the UNIO and the LO, who through political strike marked their views on this matter. Now it's about general access. In the case of employment in employment agencies, the burden of employment for many will be limited to the days when you are called, the pay for work is clearly at the lowest level, and there are often problems in collecting taxes and taxes on the public sector. During the checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate in 2014, it appeared that 42 manning companies responded to one or more cases during the whole of 30 inspections. This is something that cannot evolve further. The centre party is confident that the management of the LO agrees with these assessments, and it is gratifying that the centre party has received support from SV. We note, however, that the Workers' Party does not support us, on the grounds that it is too drastic in view of the EEA obligations. The fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left do not support us is completely logical on the basis of their priorities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e737	Does the representative of Per Olaf Lundteg wish to address the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e740	That's absolutely correct. I'll take up the proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e745	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e748	The Working Environment Act § 14-12, other sections, opens up that, in agreement with the trade union, collective bargaining organisations may hire personnel from staff companies in addition to the general rule of the Act of Temporary Needs. The proposal was incorporated into the law in 2000 and was then a follow-up to the unanimous proposal of the Blaalid Committee to allow local parties to enter into an agreement on accommodation. The provision in question has not been widely used, but in some cases it has been a useful emergency valve to ensure solutions that are in the interests of both workers and employers in times of uncertainty. Typically, this has been the case with industrial enterprises in the districts that have faced challenges in providing adequately skilled labour. Proposalers claim that since 2007, the number of permanent employees in the Oslo region has fallen, with the result that the number of hired workers from the crew industry has increased considerably. The proposers believe that these developments lead to social dumping and propose to remove the paragraph I have described. The left is disunity in the debate, and we do not support the proposal either. Firstly, it is not documented that the scheme threatens the general rule of fixed addition in Norway. Secondly, it is not true that there has been a formidable growth in the manpower industry in this area. Thirdly, the section on extended living conditions is primarily useful in parts of the world of work other than the entrepreneurship sector, and a suspension of this ratio will therefore affect entirely different areas of Norwegian business than the objectives of the proposers. Fourthly, I do not agree that the use of hired labour from serious manning companies on a general basis leads to social dumping in Norwegian working life, and fifthly, the proposal is based on a so-called report from the Manifesto Centre for Social Analysis, which contains so many faults and imaginative rewritings of reality, that it will go beyond my allocated speaking time to go through everything. I'll be careful to say that one doesn't have to take everything that falls into the post shelf, too good fish. The activity in the manning industry is today in excess of 1 pst. of all annual works in Norway. This number has remained quite constant over many years. In 2008-2009, the financial crisis led to a complete halt in the entrepreneurial sector. Deliveries from the manning industry fall by 50 pst. When the market reopened, there was also growth in the use of tenants. The main background was that one was unable to find enough skilled labour in Norway and therefore had to pick up personnel from other EU/EEA countries. This growth is continuing until 2013, when a non-discrimination principle was introduced, following the agency directive. The principle of equal treatment led to the right of staff working through a staffing agency to the same pay and working conditions as if they were added to the accommodation company. This was an important legislative change to ensure a level playing field between normal workers and hired personnel. Today, equal treatment is considered to be achieved by the inclusion of the lessees in a collective agreement concluded between the agency and a trade union of at least 10000 members. Following the introduction of the principle of non-discrimination, the costs of renting, naturally, increased, especially for the large entrepreneurs who had concluded favourable local agreements with their additions. These entrepreneurs limit their inclusion, but increase their use. foreign subcontractors, who had a lower cost picture than the large entrepreneurs. As a result, in 2014, the use of renters fell even further, and in 2015, 11.5 pst was translated. fewer hours within this area than one year before. Many argue that the proposers mix the manning industry with subcontracting. It is a very common misunderstanding among people to perceive sub-contractors with foreign labour as manning companies – obviously also among staging representatives. However, the difference is as follows: Manning companies deliver personnel who go into the customer's workload, but they do not take responsibility for the result of the work. They do that, they're not a manning company, they're a sub-contractor. Manning companies are required to comply with the principle of non-discrimination. It does not make sub-contractors and can thus offer worse working conditions. For a foreign construction worker who comes to Norway, it is therefore much safer, in my view, to work through a well-regulated manning company than with a sub-contractor who knowingly circumvents the legislation, if that is the case. I think that the manning industry is a good way to get to work, and at the times we now experience, with increased unemployment, he can also be a good intermediate between unemployment and new, permanent work. In this way, the industry can be a good contributor to the transition that Norway is going through. The proposal from the Center Party will be the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e766	Constant work provides a basis for security for each one of us by providing economic security and predictability. It's easier to breathe with your stomach today if you know you can't live on just air tomorrow. But it's also important for society, because regular work is the basis for organizing, for sharing in the trade union, because you're employed in the same place. The core of a good working life and for a safe working life is that we have organized workers who are in a position to work for improvement – and that we are based on collective agreements. Extensive use of hired labour is a threat to this very security, because people without a permanent job or a permanent job do not participate in the union and the community in the same way. On the contrary, you may be afraid to organize yourself or to talk to the trade union in fear of not getting further work or in fear of being sent home to the country where your family is, without pay. That's why we see that there are consequences where hired labour is widespread. We see that there are consequences in terms of poorer working conditions. We see that fewer people are permanently employed, we see increased use of social dumping – we see a trend in the world of work that, in turn, gives us every cause for concern, for increased insecurity. We can't look at the use of rentals as a small problem because the problem isn't big in the entire working life, but in certain industries. Therefore, SV believes that it is necessary to make a settlement with the crew industry and the playroom it has received. We're on the opposite side of the Progress Party, which is equal to the manning industry with all the other industries. Then I disagree that the change that we are discussing today, and the proposal that has been promoted, will cause businesses to have more difficult times and will labor to get workers to cover up peaks or have extra people in high seasons or if extra needs arise. This will still be access to, but that SV will prevent, is the access to replacing permanent employees with hired labour, which we actually see is a development today, and which I would like it to be a greater will to take seriously and discuss in its entirety here today. SV has a proposal for a change to the same paragraph. It is not being handled today, but I would like to point out that unfortunately the wrong paragraph has been mentioned in the SV comment in the setting. In the proposal to which it refers, we propose that renting can only occur where there is a nationwide agreement. Although we have promoted it, we still choose to go with the Center Party on proposals today, and that is because we see that the proposal points to the same problem that we have promoted a solution to ourselves, namely that hired labour replaces permanent work – we have a manning industry that has been growing over time since it became the basis of a foothold in Norway, and we see that the requirement for a written agreement on fixed-term rentals today is too thin. I find it strange that you put your trust in it to be well thought out and sufficient participation from the elected representatives with today's textual basis. There is no reason to rest that today's practice is good enough, it has to be changed, and it's about the seventh and last thing about what kind of society we're going to rest on – social security is one of the most important reasons we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e777	The government works for a serious, orderly and inclusive working life. Fixed employment shall be the general rule of a working life characterised by safe and decent working conditions. This is important both for individual workers and for a high standard and quality of production of goods and services. As the majority of the Committee emphasises, the Labour Environment Act, together with collective bargaining agreements and tripartite cooperation, ensures a high standard in Norwegian working life. The government is concerned that the access to rental is a supplement and does not weaken the general rule of permanent employment. At the same time, rental plays an important role in several sectors. However, rentals from manning enterprises represent a relatively small proportion of total employment. It's under 2 pst. of those employed who work in a manning company, and this proportion has remained stable for the last five to six years. As the majority of the Committee refers to, flexible solutions are needed in a modern labour market. The transition process in Norwegian business and economy must be taken into account. The specific legal provision which the representatives wish to repeal ensures flexibility while imposing restrictions. I cannot see that the access to a fixed-term lease-in agreement weakens the general rule of the law on fixed-term employment, as it is claimed. Lifting this provision will affect access to rentals in general, and I agree with the majority of the Committee that it is unfortunate to adopt general changes for all based on an analysis for a single industry. The Labour Inspectorate has the supervisory authority with this provision. At the same time, it is important to stress that the Labour Inspectorate carries out risk-based supervision. This means that the work of the Labour Inspectorate is directed towards the industries, businesses and professions where there is the greatest risk of harm and accident, including the indefensible or unaccountable nature of the working environment. The vast majority of employers in Norway, including rental companies, want to stay within the law. In addition to supervision, therefore, guidance is also an important tool to ensure compliance. The unprofessional part of working life, where there is a wide range of risk conditions, is a high priority in the Labour Inspectorate. As stated above, the Labour Inspectorate shall give priority to supervisory activities aimed at vulnerable industries in the labour market, and for 2016 there will be a specific activity targeted, inter alia, at: construction. Here rentals appear to be more widespread than in general in the country. Having said that, I believe that it is important to closely monitor developments in the future. By doing so, I mean both the general development of labour hiring and labour hiring and the development of certain sectors and sectors. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has launched a multi-annual research project to provide increased knowledge of different forms of association in the labour market and the possible impact of new legislation. In particular, there is the scope of fixed, temporary, rental and assignment/entreprise and the interaction between these forms to be followed over time. A number of measures to be followed in cooperation with the social partners have been launched in the government’s strategy against crime at work. In particular, the non-discrimination rules on rental pay and working conditions must be explored, in particular for the purpose of enforcement and enforcement. In addition, since the autumn of 2015 the Ministry has had a dialogue with the social partners on the development of different forms of association in the labour market, not least on employment agreements in the manpower sector. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee that it is not appropriate to repeal the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, as the representatives have proposed. In my view, it is important that the various issues relating to both the manning industry and the forms of association in the labour market are taken into account and addressed in good dialogue with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e796	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e799	Thank you to the Council of State for an interesting article. Nor will the Labour Party cancel the paragraph, which the Centre Party proposes, but it is difficult to avoid that the representative -Lundtigen and the Center Party have good points in their situation description. The plural comments in this matter do not include the challenges in the manning industry in one word. Nor did the council make a point of mentioning it. We have also seen that in other debates, for example. in the debate on fixed addition without a guaranteed salary, where the government party does not seem to want to take over the problem description. Does the Council of State see that the manning industry has challenges? How will the Council of State specifically follow up these challenges beyond the conclusion of research agreements and follow the situation closely, as it referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e804	The question of whether pay between jobs is a matter for many people. We have two types of employment today: permanent employment and temporary employment. So it's the courts that decide what is what. As I mentioned in my post, we have launched a research project to increase our knowledge of this, because we don't have much knowledge of it. It is important that we get more knowledge about the effects of the different forms of association in the workplace and how the effects of the new legislation are. As I also mentioned in my article, there is dialogue with the parties about this. As far as the question of temporary employment is concerned, the law has not yet worked. It's too early to say anything about it. But I think -- I don't just think I'm quite sure -- there's a cross-political consensus in this room that we're concerned about a serious working life. We want to ensure the serious employers, and therefore the fight against labour-life crime is generally on the government's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e811	Both the opposition and the trade union movement are very critical that the government removes the possibility of collective redress by tenants. It would be an important tool in the fight for a serious work life. When looking at developments in the manning industry and the lack of tools to improve the situation, does the Council of State still believe that it was reasonable to remove the collective court of appeal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e816	I think it's too early, as I also said in my first answer, to say something about the effect of the new legislation. Therefore, it is also important for us to see this in a larger context, that we follow this through our own research, and that we look at the impact of the legislation and how different forms of association in the labour market have been. We are committed to having serious work conditions in the labour market, to the proper functioning of the legislation and to the exercise of workers' rights. Once we have gained more experience with both legislation and legislation and also seen what research can give us, we may come back if new changes are needed, but it is too early to say how the legislation has worked. But I believe that the legislation works well, as it seems. In the case of temporary employment, few make use of it. There are relatively few who are employed in the manning industry, and there is probably also evidence that the main rules of the law apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e821	Migration in business and employment is nothing new. Now the need is greater, but there's nothing new. The Council of State says that renting from recruitment agencies is an alternative to temporary employment in this process. So we're talking about a lot of people that the state council here involves in that conversion work. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, it is best for the fixed-time society to have temporary employment if necessary, and then it is worst for society to invest in the agency. My simple question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with this order: that it is best to have permanent employment for society – seafaring for the individual as well – it is second best to have temporary employment if temporary needs exist, and it is worst to offer employment through a recruitment agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e828	I fully agree that fixed employment will be the best for all, most of them, and that is also what the law says, that fixed employment should be the main rule. In addition, we have opened up for temporary employment. I think that is good, it ensures flexibility for employers and also an opportunity for employees to come in, and in addition you have a rental. As I mentioned in my main post, there are relatively few who are employed in the manning industry. It's under 2 pst., and that percentage has been stable over several years. The reason for renting is a rule that applies to tariff-linked enterprises under agreement between trustees and employers and that is intended mainly to help enterprises at peaks or when there is a need for rental. But the main rule of fixed employment is that which applies, and that is what is also preferable. From time to time there is a need for both temporary employment and renting, and what is best will vary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e833	There are many ways to describe a situation. Statistics are one of them, and that's the third way to lie, if you're capable. When the Council of State says that the scope is small, and that the analysis of a single industry, construction and construction, is not enough, the centre party disagrees. The construction industry is essential. If the conditions in the construction industry are poor and worsen, that is something we need to address. It's our duty to do that. The Council of State constantly comes back to the concept of ‘principle of permanent employment’. I asked a question whether the Council of State could agree with me that permanent employment is the best, temporary employment if temporary needs are the second best, and employment through recruitment agencies is the worst. A simple question: does the Council agree with the value priority for employment in Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e840	I don't think it's possible to give a completely unambiguous answer to that. I can say yes. Permanent employment is preferred. Temporary employment is also positive when you need it. However, temporary employment shall not be replaced or replaced by permanent employment, and from time to time there is a need for rental. Here are clear rules for when you can rent in, and there are clear rules for what is for temporary employment. There can be no doubt that this government is concerned with the seriousness of the labour market. This government has strengthened the work of the Labour Inspectorate, and we have put the fight against the crime of working life high on our political agenda through our own strategy, we have allocated extra resources, we have set up our own cooperation procedures, and we have now established several coordinated centres to work against the crime of working life. This work is very important, and this government prioritises it, and perhaps even higher than previous governments have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e848	The Council of State said in its statement that access to rentals should be a supplement, and then I wonder if the Council of State will do anything with the cases where we see that renting actually replaces fixed employment? I also wonder whether the Council of State sees some sort of need for regulation of the crew industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e853	Yes, as I said in my main post, renting should be a supplement when there are peaks, when there is an extra need for some businesses in special situations. We have had periods where it may be difficult for companies to collect people, and in some cases it may be better to pick up employees via rental than through temporary employment, and it may also be better for the employee to be employed in a rental company rather than being temporarily employed, a little depending on the situation. So I didn't see the last part of your question. I have to ask you to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e860	May I?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e865	Yeah, I'll let you do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e868	We agree that it's a supplement, but that was the last part of your question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e873	It's whether you want to do something where you see rentals replace permanent employment and the need for regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e878	With regard to the industrial situation, it is up to the Labour Inspectorate to assess critical circumstances and to identify deviations and to ensure that the deviations are closed. That is why we have a work supervision, and that is why the government has strengthened the budgets of the Labour Inspectorate in order to be active out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e883	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e886	State Council Hauglie may not be clear on the value priority between permanent, temporary and agency employment. It is no surprise, for what the government stands for is that what is happening in Norwegian working life today is fine – it is a good development that is happening in the labour market, with fewer and fewer permanent jobs. The representative of Holen Bjørdal from the Workers' Party gave the Center Party honor by saying that we had good points in our description of reality – thank you very much! The reason why we do this is that today's size of staff in the employment agencies is causing increasing problems for a well-organised working life, where serious employers with permanent employment and apprentices are weakening competition. This is a community of interests between the serious employers and the trade union movement, and I know a lot of smaller employers who have Seamly trained their entire business on regular employment, who now have a very serious competitive situation, and that is true in many areas of the world of work. The representative Rotevatn from the Left says he disagrees with the problem. Yes, of course, that's quite natural. The Left Party today does not have a particular focus on this. He says that there is no growth in the industry – as if it were a declining industry – and he says that our proposal will affect areas other than construction. That's wrong. It will be a proposal designed for the entire Norwegian working life. But, of course, it's within construction and construction we've had the strongest trade unions, which have pointed out the weaknesses of development most strongly, and honour being Joint and those who are otherwise in that industry. So the representative, Rotevatern, says it's not social dumping. I haven't used the term social dumping at all. I have said that this development weakens the income and pay and working conditions of people who live by their work. It is a general weakening of the power of the working life of the people who are in such a situation. And so that this report contains so many errors. It's a basic mistake. Our proposal for a representative refers to the report which shows that both the number and proportion of permanent employees in traditionally large entrepreneurship companies have fallen sharply over the last few years, while there has been a marked increase in the proportion hired by recruitment agencies. That's the main point of Manifesto Analysis. There's no rejection by anyone, and that's what's at the core. We are rapidly evolving in the world of work from Cohesion Norway to Difference Norway. This changes Norway in the most important area, namely the ability of people to get a safe, stable and well-paid job. It will be a tool for the Center Party, and we encourage everyone to debate it at their workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e901	It is not unusual when the representative Lundtigen makes proposals or speaks in this Chamber that the conclusion is that the problem is the EEA Agreement. I have not intended to comment on it in all matters we will discuss where it is claimed in the setting, but I will do so once in connection with this matter. Let it be clear: for Norway, as one of Europe’s most export-dependent countries, there is no doubt that foresters, fishermen and others often referred to by Lundtigen depend on the market access granted by the EEA Agreement. It serves us well, and it is, of course, totally unrealistic to believe that one can only decide that Norway will introduce a trade agreement with the EU to replace an EEA agreement. For many years we have had a high level of employment in Norway. Over the years, we have had good help with people from other European countries coming to Norway and working. For example, in the period Sweden had right-wing government, and we had a government that was busy creating and getting to new jobs, there were 80,000 Swedes who came to Norway to work. I am pleased with the opportunity that I want to keep the EEA Agreement. But when this gets attached to the proposal to remove the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, I'm going to think that the last time I was in the shed, I worked with some of the checkers, because it's hard to get people to go with the cleaning business now, so that one gets rid of all the growth and new planting that is. The Czechs had a good collective agreement, the agreement was approved by Forest and Land – or the Joint Association, as it is now called – because we allow the parties to have influence when one is to have extra people in it, and that is exactly what the second paragraph of Section 14-12 is about. So I agree when Lundtigen says that tripartite cooperation is important. For our part of the Workers' Party, we have a special close and close cooperation with the LO and with other employee organisations. I can assure Lundtigen – since he asked how the Workers' Party could oppose this proposal – that when we choose the conclusion we make, rather to discuss the content of the same paragraph in relation to Document 8:47 S, which we now have to deal with, it is in line with the wish of the trade movement, of the Joint Alliance, which lives up to many of the challenges that Lundtigen correctly describes. That's what we mean when we're going to work together against social dumping. The representative Lundtigen says he's sure that LO supports his proposals. I can tell you that no, they don't. They support our conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e912	I think in many ways this has been a disappointing debate. The reason for this is that it has been raised in both annotational and a serious, thorough statement of objections to both the reality and the proposals made by the representatives of the Central Party, but it will not be taken into account because both the contributions from the representative Lundtigen and the comments in the case are essentially a document against the EEA Agreement – I believe that it is really the main issue here – as well as a retrospective discussion, to the one we had about the work environment law last year, and what is about the general right to temporary admissions. There's got to be a difference, but that's not what this is all about. I want to say it's disappointing, because the representative Lundteg is usually a spokesperson for us to stick to the facts, and that, as he says, we should have a common sense of reality. Well, here's the common sense of reality that the representative Lundteigen is wrong, and that this is a bad proposal. The representative of SV, the representative of Bergstø, says we have to take a specifier with the crew industry. I would like to, but this is not, as the proposal says, an industry that is growing. Last year it went down by 11.5 pst. The left and I share the commitment to poor working conditions in some parts of the world of work, and not least to work crime and social dumping. But it's worth noting that the problems we've seen over the last few years, not least in the construction industry and the construction industry, which the representative is involved in, have been about subcontractors and not manning companies. I think that businesses around the country that are in a difficult situation, not least in the districts, should notice the violent commitment of the representatives of the Centre Party and SV to build higher walls around Norway, to give less access to the free flow of labour in Europe, to terminate the EEA Agreement and to reduce the flexibility of working life. It's not the business that I travel around, and I also think the representatives of the named parties should travel a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e924	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e927	The reality that many outside this room experience is that conditions in the labour market change very much for those professionals who are exposed to uncontrolled immigration from countries that have completely different pay and working conditions and high levels of unemployment. That's the basis of the Central Party's understanding of reality, and we've got it through traveling around the country. The representative of Holen Bjørdal said that the repeal of the second paragraph of Section 14-12 is too drastic in relation to the EEA obligations. That was honest and real. To the representative Andersen: Is the repeal of the second paragraph of Section 14-12 contrary to the EEA Agreement? The representative should now answer that question. It was not clarified in connection with the Blaalid Committee or during the Storting treatment. Is that so? It is important to get answers from the representative Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e936	I'll answer that. That question answered Holen Bjørdal very well in his post. It can be discussed whether it is in the border country or whether it gives rise to doubt regarding the EEA Agreement, but it is not my main point. My main point is that it's the paragraph that gives the employees influence when it comes to renting. I am concerned that Norwegian workers who are organised in their associations should have an influence. That's why I don't want to cancel that paragraph. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e955	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines of reply are given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e962	Initially, I must be allowed to thank the Committee for the work done. We've traveled around the country and the beach, we've been to the capital of Iceland, the capital of Denmark, and we almost reached the fishing capital of Båtsfjord – but didn't get all the way up there. In a globalised world trade, the competitiveness of industry is one of the determining factors for where and how value creation is to be done. The longer we are able to stretch the national and at the same time profitable part of the value chain, the more part of the value creation we can take with us to the positive side of Norway. How we do this also affects the economic outcome of the nation. Based on natural advantages, we have developed three key knowledge clusters in Norway: the maritime sector, with the background of our long maritime traditions, the energy sector, based on hydropower, oil and gas, and the latter is the maritime food sector, developed on the basis of our rich fish stocks and through centuries inherited knowledge of fishing and production based on them. Over the last decades, we have also developed a world-leading aquaculture industry in the maritime food sector based on the knowledge we have about the sea and the production of meat – which in turn has given us the knowledge to manage these industries from an eternity perspective. So we're a significant food producer, but most importantly, we have knowledge of safe and safe food production that also benefits the rest of the world's population. That is why the cod should above all be the symbol of our honor and our power. A globalised world with increased availability of cheap labour, and logistics that allows the production of virtually anything, anywhere, has been challenging for the Norwegian seafood industry. In addition, the fact that we have had very good years in oil has also helped to weaken the competitiveness of the industry – partly in domestic labour, and partly in the international final market due to a high level of Norwegian costs. This competitive image is changing, and it is the policy framework for a more competitive maritime food industry that the government is dealing with in the Single European Act. How do we facilitate increased efforts in Norway to acquire more knowledge of, and to produce more healthy and safe food in concrete terms to the world? This message is the result of a political work that started in the previous period. Both by proposals from the Right and the Advance Party, by proposals and communications submitted by the previous government, and by the fact that the Lisbeth Berg-Hansen Council set up the Tveterås Committee, there is a broad consensus that this part of the industry needs increased competitiveness. The selection work was handed over to State Councillor Elisabeth Aspaker in the autumn of 2014. The NOU has in retrospect created a great debate, but I will remember one thing. Although there was his/hers about some of the suggestions from the sample, there was unanimous agreement on the description of reality. This industry needs to increase its competitiveness. The proposals for the amendment of the Fish Sales Act and the Participant Act are probably the themes that aroused the greatest ex post involvement in the work of the sample, and although the government does not propose any changes in these, we feel that this is still being debated livelyly in public space. The communication aims to see more clearly the policy frameworks for catching and production patterns from the market and backwards. How do we make sure that we capture and produce at one time, and of such a quality, that we get the greatest value out of the market? How to facilitate a catch and production pattern that ensures a product diversity that enables us to enter more markets, so as to avoid vulnerability to the opposite? How to facilitate predictability of catches and supplies of raw materials so that the industry finds it appropriate to invest more in research and development? How to facilitate a catch and production pattern that ensures that we use all the raw materials for the highest possible value creation? How to facilitate an industry that is so competitive and profitable as to create annual, knowledge-based and safer jobs? The Committee's work shows that there is broad agreement on the content and measures of the notification. Yes, the consensus is in fact so large in some places that the majority, consisting of all the parties except the Right Party and the Advance Party, repeats the government's proposal to investigate the movement of quota years. But there are also proposals where the majority, including the Right Party and the Advance Party, change the government's position, and I want to spend some time on these. To V: The questions about the different obligations of some of the jet concessions have been much discussed. Where the government sees these separately, the Committee considers that these should be seen together in the Commission's work. For the Right and the Advance Party, this is not a big problem. Everyone agrees that these obligations do not work as intended. We proposed to review this set of regulations in the previous period. The fact that we now have a full majority for this just shows that it takes time to design constructive policies from the opposition. In terms of resource research, VII, we help to make it clear that the land industry also has population management and when we fish what is important. Therefore, a multi-stock management model is a natural next step within this field. To X: This is a problem raised at the hearings, by representatives of the Coastal Fishery Team. The fishing fleet is constantly being modernised, and the importance of not imposing nationality requirements on fleet ownership below 15 metres, we believe it is wise to make an assessment. As far as the other proposals are concerned, this is the case from our point of view: whether Svalbard is covered in the work on the Svalbard message. II and VI have been proposed by the Government, III on quota flexibility we believe is a counterproductive proposal all the time there is agreement on changing the start of the quota year [[President clubs]] I'm almost going to have to show you our suggestions. IV, VIII and IX are required for strategies. V, VII, X and XI we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1008	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1011	The government party has turned and goes in and supports three out of ten proposals in the committee's configuration. But they don't go into the proposal that applies to the use of the whole fish. Now it was turbo speed at the end of the representative here, but I couldn't understand any argument for it. The EU has, after all, imposed a ban on whole fish to land by 2019, and it is also a consensual committee that points out that marine residues have a value potential that is not well exploited today. How, then, can it be said that the government party will not support a proposal where the Stortinget asks the government to come up with an action plan and ‘develop a strategy for the use of all the residue/by-product and instinctive arrangements for the landing of the whole fish, including an assessment and a reasonable time for’ when we can put this in place in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1018	In the past, the government has asked the government to come up with a strategy on bioeconomy. We believe that all of these points are covered in the work done there. It is a multi-ministerial work, so we see no need to jump on any strategy proposed in the Stortinget. We believe this, both in communication earlier and in what has been said in public space, is a work that is covered by what the government is doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1023	One of the proposals for decisions on which there is broad agreement and the whole committee is behind is the proposal to draw up a plan for stepping up Norwegian stock and resource research. For this year's government budget, there was a strengthening through negotiations in the Grand Duchy. But my question is short and good: What is the representative's idea of the size of this escalation? And in particular, does he agree that the 2017 state budget must have a strengthening of stock and resource research?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1028	I agree that a multi-stock management model is important if we are to get in place. I do not need much to say that it must be in place in December 2016. But what is part of the daily debate in the fisheries environment is whether they are currently managing fish stocks properly in order to increase value creation. Could it be that during periods we should perhaps take out even more of the cod stock for the sake of the soldering stock, instead of fishing cod today based only on stock estimate and stock target for the cod stock? It's in our minds about a management model where we look at multi-stock management. For us it is not important to say that in 14 days it must be in place, and the package must be so large. But the fact that we're gradually changing our management model in terms of multi-resistance is what's in our proposal. That is why we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1035	I thought it was great that the Right Party and the Advance Party were able to turn around and look at their position on important decisions of our coast. And then we'll see when the matter comes back, how the parties want to deal with it then. In the Bakke-Jensen article, knowledge-based is a central word, and we know that research is central to our assessment in the future and also to the possibilities that the industry has. There is already feed for new species, potential energy use, growth ambitions, etc. It's simply an industry where we see research intensity increasing. In recent times, the Minister for Fisheries has created considerable uncertainty about the government's attitude to free research, and a professional council is now to be set up to help the Marine Research Institute. How will the Right ensure that this Council will secure legitimacy and not become part of the suspicion of political research?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1044	I'm not going to answer to the Council of State, but I think it's an important discussion whether it's going to be law for the public to question the research institutions. I believe that one of the most important research institutions does – and here we are discussing specifically the Institute of Marine Research – is to be in open dialogue with the public and have a mix of research and management responsibilities in the institution. There's a discussion about our stock research, and there's a discussion about salmonmus, primarily – that's what started this debate. One can imagine the scenario if one comes to ICES from the public Norwegian side, where one has to determine the national stock targets, and then ICES looks to Norway and here sees full civil war, where politicians do not trust the research institutions, where the research institutions will not be open about the results and their methods. I think that would actually be detrimental to the national role and the national stock targets. I think it is important that we have research institutions that are not monopolised and that are open in the dialogue with the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1051	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1055	All of us, first of all, I would like to thank each and every one of us in the opposition to constructive and good dialogue for having put in place several good measures and incentives to increase the competitiveness of the maritime food industry and also to round off the important ‘fundamental law’ of our fisheries policy. We have all had recordings – given and taken – in the process, and today we can state that the bulk of the flooding before maritime policy lies at the intersection centre/red-green. The fact that the process has been pleasant to everything, I think of it as a pure bonus! The fish in the sea belong to the community, such as oil and gas and hydropower. Therefore, it has been so important for the Workers' Party to stop the holocaust of participating laws and fish salad laws. Norway is a sea country both historically and in the future. Fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common and will contribute to jobs and value creation along our entire coast. For this reason, the Labour Party has been concerned about preserving the nationality requirement and not putting it into play, and that the main rule is that there are active fishermen who are to manage the fish resources for the new species, for example. Royal crabs, and for the rare, low-exploited species. The fact that the government party now turns around at some point and is associated with a collective opposition in the Stortinget is good. But that doesn't change the fact that this first test piece for Per Sandberg as Minister of Fisheries still has a stomachache. Now it was on set and show not Sandberg's project either. A collective opposition has pointed out that the message was too weak on several points, and there are ten concrete amendments – three of these are correct enough for the government parties as well. In addition, there are several plural comments. The sum of this fine on some of these weak points, and there's a requirement that the government must act, not just talk. These are the suggestions Per Sandberg referred to as wise and good suggestions. I'm totally in agreement with him – just so sorry that the big groups to the Right and the Progress Party are not on the proposals, but it's actually not too late to turn around. The three duties are the ones that have gained the most attention in the media lately. The Committee concludes that universal service obligations are not currently being changed. The starting point is no longer the government proposed, a commission to liquidate the obligation of activity. Nor is it the winding-up of the processing obligation or the regionalisation of universal service, as the government would. The size has been mentioned: all three duties should be seen in context – they are closely linked. One has to look at what was the intention behind the duties. Why did the industry get exemptions from the Participant Act to get their own boat and quota, against returning fish raw material to the fisheries-dependent coastal communities? Why did this social contract be introduced between boat, industry and individual communities? One must consider: Is it OK that the majority of cod trawlers are not owned by active fishermen, and that the exemption will be maintained if the social contract with the individual society is broken – is it really that the industry does not get part of this eternal fishing resource? The Commission has many and heavy issues, and its composition will be crucial for fulfilling its mandate. There are many important measures that the Storting decides today, and I want to draw up an obligation on the government to provide a stepping-up plan for more resources for stock and resource research. Such a stepping-up plan will be applauded by a comprehensive environment. The increase in research funding is long sought from all organizations and at all stages, including all the fishermen I have spoken to. The second thing I want to do is I want to do the whole fish. It's climate-friendly, it's ethically right, and it's economically right. In order to increase value creation, the quality of all joints and the use of whole fish is crucial. Marine residue is a valuable resource that needs to be used much more in the future than today. For this reason, the proposal of an overall opposition is that the government should consider a strategy for the use of all the residual/by-product and incentive arrangements for the landing of whole fish, one of the most important new measures we are adopting here today. I take up the minority proposal on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1076	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1081	The public debate on the different obligations of individual customs concessions has been widely discussed in the media. Where the message outlines that they should be seen separately, the Committee now believes that they should be seen below one in a Commission work. But everyone is certain that the obligations do not work as intended. It was the Stoltenberg I government that created this problem, with the sharing of fleet and land industry into two independent companies. When the representative, Ingrid Heggø, says that there are active fishermen who are responsible for the management of fish resources, there is something quite different from the current installation. What does the representative Heggø think about this, and what is the answer to the challenge? Is the answer that the Labour Party relies on its solutions and with it removes the status that the Labour Party has had as a party with its own policy, and then – in the same way as in other political matters – is uncertain about its own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1088	I thank you for that question. Unlike the government party, the Workers' Party is not afraid of acquiring knowledge. For this reason, we have also not concluded in advance when it concerns universal service, as the government did as late as Prime Minister Erna Solberg in Question Time less than one day before we gave up our position. The Labour Party sees it as one company, when the representative Grimstad mentions the division that has happened. For us, Norway Seafoods and Seafish are legally one company, and they are the ones who have to meet the commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1097	When the Labour Party says that they see it as one legal company, it is actually that there are two different legal companies that have created this challenge. The Labour Party says that they're not afraid for knowledge acquisition, but why didn't they take in that knowledge in advance, so that one didn't get into the situation that we're in today, with the division that many think represents the problem that's attached to the three original duties of both fleet and country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1102	Most of them are probably certain that it was former fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen’s change in universal service – from a universal service obligation to a universal service obligation – that has been the biggest change in universal service obligations and that has made it malfunctioning. Back to it with one legal company: yes, we think of it as one legal company, and I can't answer for it. One could not possibly refuse to split the company into two, as it was. At least that's what a bunch of stuff meant about that thing, as far as I'm concerned. But that we view it as one legal company, must be absolutely clear, and they should also align themselves with that. The signal to look at all three obligations under one, we send on to the Commission that will now look at this. Then they also have to align themselves with the legal space that is actually there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1109	The regulations for the fishing fleet are quite complicated. They regulate with a basic quota, with redistribution, you have by-catch, you can get a fresh fish bonus, and you get a bonus for live fishing. In the comments, the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left stated that: ‘Propose a new scheme granting an allowance bonus if industry and fleet members enter into annual full-year agreements ensuring smooth raw material access throughout the year. For cod fisheries it will be to deliver less than today in the first four months of the year compared to the last eight months.» Well, this sounds kind of benevolent. My question to the representative Heggø is: Where are we going to propose this? It has not been proposed as part of the Committee's position. Is it in the electorate or other places you can see that you are going to make these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1121	I didn't hear the last representative Bakke-Jensen say, if it was on...?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1126	I can clarify the question: where are you going to come up with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1131	This is precisely because we have proposed a strategy – which is now supported by a majority in Stortinget – to look at all-yearly workplaces. It is a good measure for all-year work places that a quota bonus is given even when industry and fleet are undertaking a commitment work in the future. That one delivers less to start with and more in the last few months is exactly what we're looking for to smooth out the seasonal swings. It's precisely this industry's demand. There are few suggestions I have been able to make on my way from the Labour Party's side, for which we have received so much praise and good words, as this very proposal is. But it'll probably come back to the strategy we've been asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1140	With the decline in oil industry and the increase in unemployment along our long-range coast, it is more important than ever that we provide the best possible wage in one of our most important future industries, the maritime sector, which has long traditions. The land part of the seafood industry in Norway consists of about 440 enterprises, which have a total of 9700 annual works, so employment is important to many communities. We are facing important decisions in the future of Norwegian fisheries policy, and yesterday's solutions will in some areas be obsolete and need to adapt to tomorrow's reality. It is important to create the best possible profitability for the entire marine nutrition industry, and that we have a broadest possible political body, which develops stable framework conditions that can last over time and create carelessness. In a time of great fishing that goes well – yes, some even go very well, with good catches and great profitability – it shows that sensible management is gold worth, literally. Raising salmon gives the same positive image, with some environmental challenges. If we look forward in time, the world's population will increase from seven to nine billion people, and by date the oat room supplies the world's population with only two psts. of the need for food. And we know that the production capacity in the marine space – well, to mark good management – can be multiple and become immeasurably important in the future. For the seafood industry, margins have been weak for a year, especially in the production of white fish, and large quantities of fish are sent out of the country without processing. That is why there is a great desire to change this, and in the political framework of a more competitive maritime food industry, which the government has dealt with in the big news of a competitive seafood industry, this is of great note. In this message, we suggest that you do not hesitate to send a message. the government may help to increase value creation at industrial and maritime level or else. In order to strengthen potential for desired change and innovation and thus promote competitiveness and value creation in the marine food industry, the government wants to simplify and provide the industry with flexibility through, inter alia. to facilitate increased freedom of choice and to resolve regulatory action in some areas and to strengthen legitimacy, interaction and efficiency of the value chain. In reading the Minister for Fisheries has stated: ‘I do not believe that we as politicians can regulate ourselves to profitability.’ I fully share that view, as this industry is also part of the competitive activity until the consumer. However, a joint committee is concerned that fisheries policy regulations should promote quality and help to increase the value of the final product and increase profitability. The Economic and Social Committee has gathered around several joint decisions, and a number of the proposed measures are in line with the intentions set out in the message – it would be to smooth out the season, as the seafood industry, especially in wild fish, has to deal with major seasonal fluctuations, an expert selection for first-hand sales, and increased investment in research and development. The Committee also endorses the desire for a comprehensive review of all three obligations and asks the Commission to review them in six points. Another measure to contribute to smoother raw material access throughout the year is to give priority to the continuation of the quota bonus for live storage and the fresh fish system. Quota flexibility, or the movement of the quota year, is disunity, but the government party believes that one should primarily consider the movement of the quota year. The government is also concerned with resolving unnecessary detailed regulations, and I mention as an example: the government will increase flexibility and remove restrictions on ship-referencing when non-biological considerations speak against it, a proposal to remove the ban on onboard production in the cod trawl group for vessels without universal service, and one believes there is a less need for strict regulation of vessel size in the quota-regulated fisheries. In the public debate, the various obligations attached to some of the trawl concessions have been widely discussed. There the message outlines that one sees these separately, a joint committee thinks that these should be seen below one, as referred to in a Commission work. All of us are certain that these commitments do not work as intended, and we are looking at what solution this group of experts will propose. The Committee has made many wise choices, where a joint committee is gathering on the desire for better framework conditions for Norwegian maritime food exports to our customers around the world. Finally, thank you to the case spokesperson for coming from the job with the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1175	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1178	In Stortinget's Question Time on 17 February, Minister of Fisheries Per Sandberg agreed that it was a good idea to create a strategy for all-year jobs in industry. It is the Right and Advance Party in the Storting disagree. The fact that employment concerns are not high on the agenda of the Progress Party may not be entirely surprising, but does not the Minister for Fisheries and the spokesperson for fisheries in the Progress Party speak together? Or doesn't the representative Oskar J. Grimstad see the need to put in place all year round's jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1183	I believe that the representative Botten must have completely misunderstood the minister when she interprets him like this. The government party also shows by its work with this message that one is very busy with all-year-old jobs. And I've been involved in a number of decisions to outline solutions to better avoid what we've seen in this review of parts of this industry -- long lay-offs, which make the workplaces not as attractive as they could have been. So we will certainly work to put in place, as far as possible, all year's jobs in the fishing industry and see no contradictions in the work that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1188	There is an overall committee that supports Norway’s Fiskerlag, Sjømat Norway and the Fish Sales Act to review and look at how one can use the Fish Sales Act more effectively in today’s legislation. Then the Center Party has also supported the creation of an expert committee. We have done that because the parties have – uncertainly for what reason – wanted it. The Party of Advancement and the Right, on the other hand, has a slightly different reason for this Committee of Experts. They write that it is “necessary to maintain trust in this work”. Then my question is: does not the Progress Party trust that the three organisations can carry out this job on their own in a way that we can trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1193	Well, we have full confidence in these organisations and that this work will be done in a way that is appropriate for the future. We underline what we're doing in the comment, and clarify things where we think is necessary, and don't see the contradiction that the representative Pollestad sketches, at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1198	It is a maritime industry message that we are discussing today, and chapter 10 of the message is finally curated and the framework conditions for industrial production itself are dealt with. There the government determines that there are major challenges, especially in the whitefish sector, when it comes to industrial production itself. He is under-technological, and labour costs are among the most important challenges facing him. This goes hand in hand with what we see internationally of industrial development, where we use automation, robotization and new advanced industrial capabilities to create just more advanced industrial production. We thought that this was a scheme of smash for the rest of the committee when we introduced a programme in Innovation Norway that should just be to raise the industry in the whitefish industry. Why won't the Progress Party support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1203	On the committee trip to Iceland, we saw examples of the development and processing of white fish in a way that means that the industry itself in many ways is about to solve this challenge, because what has been our challenge is the cost level, and we know that we have a relatively high cost level when it comes to labour in Norway. Among other things, we saw examples of fish cutting with water, which is new technology – and we visited a company when we were in Denmark – so we see that the technological developments taking place in this sector do not in any way require a specific programme in Innovation Norway. There are already funding arrangements in Innovation Norway and in other ways that this can be financed in an entirely ordinary way without us specifically establishing an arrangement associated with Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1208	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1211	The fishing industry is one of our most important industries. It provides large revenues and provides the basis for coastal workplaces. We have some natural assumptions that make our vision of being the world's leading maritime nation possible. Therefore, it is of great importance that the fishing industry has good and efficient regulations that facilitate maximum value creation and safe jobs both at sea and on land. If we read through today's setting, I'll say it's a red thread that's continuous, and that's quality. High quality gives the most value creation if we take care of the quality, and we have a fantastic quality product as the starting point. It is therefore important how fish are caught, how the fish is handled, how the fish is transported, how the fish is delivered and – in order to add – how the fish is prepared in a qualitatively best way by us as consumers. The Marine Industry Communication has given us the opportunity to see the industry as a whole. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to see the results of this review with solutions that are good for the whole industry and for the population along the coast. The profitability at sea has been, and is, good. The challenges have been in parts of the fillet industry. The Christian People's Party believes that the fillet industry has a future in Norway, but it requires an even stronger focus on quality. Norway cannot be the cheapest on the labour force, nor should we be. On the other hand, we have to deliver products of the highest quality. That is why we must give the industry freedom in the design and selection of vessels as long as the biological considerations do not contradict it. In this way, it will be even more possible to deliver the quality required by industry. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that the decisions we make are based on solid knowledge. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased to have got the committee to set up a commission that looks at all aspects of the obligation system and the consequences of changes. The Commission shall examine the social, economic and legal aspects of both the tightening, suspension and adjustment of the obligation system. This will give us more knowledge and hopefully a more complete picture of what's right to do. So important an industry as the fishing industry deserves that we take the time to do this job properly. The obligation system has been controversial for a long time, it's not going to go under the chair. Nevertheless, we should not take lightly the changes, the possible suspension of or the maintenance of the obligation system as we know it today. The main need is to increase value creation and profitability at sea and on land, secure jobs and the basis for local communities living along the coast. The links between these are obvious: no profitable operation — no safe jobs, no safe jobs — no settlement. It is therefore of great importance that we get the facts we need on the table before we decide on this big deal. The Christian People's Party has fought in budgetary conciliation to increase appropriations for stock research. It is, therefore, very good that there is a majority to ask the government to submit a stepping-up plan for multi-racial research. This will ensure that we get the knowledge we need for optimal management of our fishing resources. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a majority to ask the government to develop a strategy for the landing and exploitation of the residue. The residue will become an important raw material that can provide a basis for new jobs in the bioeconomy. Poor use of residual raw materials is wasted with resources and weakens the possibility of maximum value creation. However, the bioeconomy strategy presented by the government later in the year must also include the blue sector. As in most other industries, the fishing industry needs a good reputation for recruiting. But without the industry appearing to be sustainable, profitable and innovative, it will not be easy to do recruitment work. The fishing industry must run in time and be so trendy and forward-looking – I would say – that the best sushi chefs can look up to this industry. It's an ambitious goal, but we need to be ambitious. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the outcome of the treatment of the marine food industry message. Correct adjustments have been made, and important knowledge will now be collected. We believe it is important for this industry to have as wide a majority behind it as this position shows. It provides predictable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1234	Last year the Committee at the Maritime Food Fair was in Brussels. There we saw how one markets Norwegian seafood outside. Marketing was mainly dominated by small fishing boats and living fishing waters and local communities along our coasts, and I think that is reason to say that Norwegian fisheries policy is and has been a success story. One has secured coastal workplaces, one has a law of participation that guarantees fishermen’s rights to fish, one has a law of fishing sales, which gives fishermen control of the market place, and not least has the power to build up a good and credible resource management. The prerequisites lie there to achieve the goal of becoming the world's foremost maritime nation. I intend to start with the issues where we agree, and even go as far as we initially agree with the government, because there are things in this communication, in this case, that have not received enough attention. It is good that an aggregate increase wants to focus more on research and development and to facilitate the development of new products. It is good that one clearly emphasizes that one should give more weight to quality than only quantity. It is good that one commits to strengthening resource research, and that one has an order for that escalation. I wish the Council of State could say something later in the debate on what appropriations in the 2017 government budget he sees for himself. I suspect we won't get an answer to that. I must also stress that it is not useful to grant money for research unless both industry and the environment have confidence that research is free and independent. We all have a responsibility to contribute to that. And it's good that the committee stresses that one will have a better use of resources by making more use of the whole fish. Then there is an important point that the Committee has underlined, and on which there is agreement, namely, tougher working for market access. Now the export figures came for the first quarter. They're showing a positive development. With the relationship we have with Russia and China, it's good numbers to take with us. I want to make a settlement with the myth of Norway as a country with sky-high customs walls around it. Norway has offensive trade interests, especially in fish, and we have defensive trade interests, especially in agriculture. Then it's more important to spend time fighting for offensive interests than to spend time giving up our defensive trading interests. The question that has been the most attention in the matter is the obligations. The centre party is engaged in the proper functioning of the obligation system. We're glad we're now getting a commission that's going to figure out all the sides. The timing is very tight, but for us the conclusion will be that we want a tightening rather than a weakening of duties, but in a way that makes them effective. Finally – the Sales Act: The cooperation undertaken by the Fiskarlag, Sjømat Norway and the Fish Sales Act is good. We accepted — and supported — the creation of an expert group, on the grounds that the three wanted it. But I have a little difficulty seeing the practical effect, because I think that an expert group will necessarily have to report to the department, which will again report to the three who are working on this. I hope that the Council of State can arrange that in a flexible and good way. Then I'm glad we've said that what's going on in quotas, we push on and take an overall assessment of when the Eidesen Committee is done. I would like to thank the Committee, and I would like to thank the parties that have contributed to a coherent solution, which I believe will last over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1262	The Government has put forward proposals to regionalise universal service in three regions, because the fishing boats do not necessarily have the right quality and the right type of fish to be requested at the reception. Furthermore, the government will terminate the scheme with demands for processing, and here are many good reasons. The representative Heimdal said instead: it's about securing housing, securing jobs and increasing profitability. At least the government suggested setting up a commission to look at the obligation of activity. The obligation of activity is a district policy issue, which should not be imposed on Norwegian competitively-proposed industry to resolve. The Chairman of the Committee Pollestad wrote in a reading article that appears in many newspapers around the country that the government wants to cancel all these three duties. I wonder – and wonder very much about – where he has this from, where he has read this. At least that's not the same message I've read.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1269	The government proposed in the message a weakening of the obligations that will effectively override the function that they are intended to perform. Then there is a recognition that the entire committee has come to – regardless of the direction in which one wants to go – from the fact that the duties have not functioned properly. That is why we have a proposal for a decision which both the Right and the Centre and the rest of the Committee have supported, that we should have a Commission that looks at this and investigates it wider than what has been done. When that happens, we will see where the political majority is – whether a person wants to go for a sharpening, a change or a liberalisation, which is what the government has set up. I believe that the liberalisation proposed by the government was so extensive that it was really about a removal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1278	There was only one of the government's obligations to cancel, and that was the duty of activity. There's a lot of good reasons for that, just that with both profitability and others. Norway's largest whitefish farms are located here in Oslo, and processing all the fish, for example. on the coast of North Norway and running it all the way to Oslo to process it involves both environmental challenges, cost challenges and transport challenges in order to reach the market. I wonder: Pollestad mentions in his post that he wants to strengthen these duties. Where does he want to strengthen these duties, if there is still to be good profitability in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1285	The aim of the central party with the fisheries policy is to ensure activity and value creation along the coast. That's the overall goal. We believe that there is a need for a policy to facilitate this. I am afraid that one with a large degree of liberalisation of the policy instruments will have a centralisation of production a few places and that a greater part of the processing will take place abroad. We want processing to take place in Norway and along the coast. With regard to the issues raised by the representative, this is precisely why we have pointed out that there is a need for a Commission which does not have a mandate which the government wanted to give to the Commission, but which has a broad mandate, such as: The Centre Party, the Right Party and the rest of the Committee have supported in their proposal for a decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1294	The centre party and SV write in a note that they want to lock the fish resources of the individual state, describing this as a common resource, which belongs to the Norwegian people – and then clearly within the individual state. Does that mean that when a fisherman fishes mackerel, herring, solder, krill, or other species, a fisherman shall try to find out which fish is outside it, and then it shall be delivered in the state outside it? Is this the idea, since one describes it like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1301	That note must be seen in the context that this message is a cod message for all practical purposes. It is also the comment that this refers to, and I hope that it makes more sense to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1309	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his main contribution and the Committee on constructive processes until the result we have now. It is a very important issue we have for debate right now, much more important than many think, because the fisheries and aquaculture industry, the marine industries, the seafood sector – the industry has many names – is an important pillar for the Norwegian economy, Norwegian communities and Norwegian jobs. The maritime food sector is of great importance today, but has the potential to become even more important in the future — for Norwegian welfare. That is why the decisions taken today by the Storting are important, not just for the future of the seafood sector, but for the Norwegian community, for the Norwegian economy. Through the work of the Business Committee, it has been a key task for the Left to obtain an impact on important points relating, inter alia, to: climate, research, recruitment, quality, turnover and market activity – key points that will contribute to making the marine food industry more profitable and environmentally friendly in the future. I am pleased that the Committee has clear expectations of strengthening these areas. In this picture, it is also gratifying that a joint committee was in favour of the various duties being examined jointly by a Commission. The left will have more knowledge of the consequences of a conversion of obligations, both economically, legally and socially, before a final decision can be taken. I am convinced that we are doing the right thing when we now ask for a thorough review. Norway is and will become a ‘sea country’. Norway’s highly productive sea areas – with a long and rich coastline – have given us particularly good natural conditions for fishing and processing. As long as we keep our seas and fjords clean, Norway has a unique starting point as a leading international supplier of high-quality seafood. I am pleased that the different parts of the fishing industry, from catch to market – Seafood Norway, the Fiskerlag and the sales teams – agree on trading conditions and on the market place. It promises good for the future. If Norway is to be the world’s leading maritime nation, we must face an environmentally friendly and profitable fishing fleet that supplies healthy food from well-managed populations in some of the world’s cleanest sea areas. To achieve this, we need to be knowledge leaders in the coastal and marine environment, sustainable resource use and development of the modern fishing fleet of the future and the processing of the fish of the future – whether in pelagic fisheries such as herring and mackerel, or whether we are talking about rock fish, dry fish, fillet and other uses of the white fish. Today, too much of the cod quota is thrown overboard because we are not able to use all the residue. There is a great resource at stake, and there is an economic, ethical and environmental benefit in making better use of marine resources. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has put together a proposal where the Stortinget asks the government to develop a strategy for the use of all residues/by-products, as well as to develop an incentive scheme for the landing of the whole fish. Further development of a functioning bioeconomy is about making the fleet and industry exploit what is today defined as residual raw material, in applications other than those we know today. A national effort to make the opportunities for attractive and exciting career choices in a healthy and sustainable industry will be essential for the industry to attract skilled professionals in the future. Therefore, it is good that the government now needs to develop a strategy to strengthen recruitment to the industry. Finally, it is worth noting that the Committee is united behind the comment that the Svalbard community must be able to reap the ring-effects of the increased fishing activity around the island. With the challenges that we face the Great Norse, and that the Svalbard community has, it is important to look at other industries that can have a positive ringing effect on Svalbard. Marine resources should play an important role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1334	One of the most important measures you can take to lift the seafood industry is to invest in technology and the market. The reason given by the representative from the Progress Party is not to be on the proposal of the SV, the Center Party and the Labour Party: one has a general pot of money in Innovation Norway – one does not want special bets there. The big exception here is, of course, the petroleum sector – they have their own designs in Innovation Norway. But leave it alone today. My question is: when the Left does not want to raise innovation and technology specifically for this important industry for Norway, what is the left's foundation? I hope there's no business neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1341	I thank you for the question. It must be clear that the Left wants technology promises and innovation promises in the industry. We believe that Innovation Norway and others in the instrument are rigged to do that work, and we are not concerned that this should be done now, through specific programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1348	Does the representative of the Left intend to remove the petroleum-right measures under Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1353	I am not handling the case over the table as to what is happening in the petroleum sector. But I can assure the representative Knag Fylkesnes that the Left will be on the right track to find good instruments related to the fisheries and aquaculture sector and the traditional fishing industry and the fishing industry, which we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1358	The reason why I ask is that when one deals with a maritime industry message, the big words on how important this is to the Norwegian society. Nevertheless, we are in a situation in Norway today – we come back to it in the next case too – where we are a little stuck in old priorities from the past. Internationally, in far more liberal countries than Norway, such as the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom and Denmark, they have specific investment in industries that may be open to the future. That's why I want to ask again: why is it unnatural for the Left to give priority to a specific investment in the seafood industry in Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1365	I believe there are many innovation schemes in Norway that capture the challenges of the marine food sector. We are negotiating with the government parties and with the Christian People's Party on the budgets, on good measures, on good arrangements. It's natural for us to also discuss this further in those contexts. But I don't think it's natural that we bring this in as a separate point in the treatment of the seafood industry message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1372	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1375	Today we see that unemployment is growing, and we see a decline in the oil industry. In such a situation, it becomes particularly important that we do everything in our power to promote a policy that provides jobs and value creation in Norway. We must therefore pursue a policy of maritime nutrition that brings out the greatest possible value of our fish, at the best of society, to the best of its coastal communities and to the best of its nourishment. It's at this intersection that we have to find the good solutions. I believe the reason why the message has received such a cool treatment in the Business Committee is that it does not. The large picture shows that Norwegian fishing industry is doing well. 2014 was the most profitable year since 1994. It is not unmistakable that 2016 will be even better due to favourable currency situations. So there's no reason to argue that the seafood industry is in a deep crisis. But it's challenges, and not least, it's a huge untapped potential, relationships we have to address politically. Only about a third of Norwegian fish are processed in Norway. In the whitefish field, more than 60 pst goes. of whole, fresh cod exported into the foreign fillet industry. In other words, it is a great potential, and labour costs are pointed out as one of the major problems. It should be a cross of thought, but it's not in the message. The government's communication does not address the problem of low capacity utilisation and low innovation capacity and low quality investment. For this reason, SV suggests that we should invest heavily through a dedicated programme in Innovation Norway to strengthen industry through automation, robots and the market. That's how we can create strong companies with safe jobs. It's strange that it's only the Labour Party and the Center Party that support our proposal. Does the rest really mean that the major industrial challenge can only be met by liberalisation and the abolition of obligations and social contracts? A large proportion of the fish from the fleet that the government wants to make use of are just sent out of the country unprocessed, in frozen state, to foreign industrial production. There are not many jobs and value creations in Norway. No suggestions in the message meet another major challenge for industry – access to raw materials. Rather on the contrary, over time we have seen that there is fresh high-quality raw material that gets the best paid in the market. It is not possible for a fish to be fished by methods other than the one that produces the best quality. The ocean-going trawlers were given the time to fish because they were going to give the industry raw materials throughout the year. This is not happening today, and the fish are not of good quality. SV therefore believes that it is time to phase out the trawlers and return the quotas to the coast. Secondly, we support the Commission's proposal. There will always be seasonal variations in fisheries. It was also the background to the failure of the social contracts with the seagoing jet fleet. Instead, SV supports measures such as live storage bonuses on the supply of fresh fish to smooth out seasons as much as possible. If this is combined with a great technology effort and can create new possibilities for processing different types of fish on a distributed area along our entire coast, we have amazing possibilities. There is no contradiction between a competitive seafood industry and district policy. On the contrary, if we are to achieve the highest prices and the best quality, we will have to make sure that the fish are landed just hours after he is caught. There must be many places along the coast. What Norway needs is therefore a coastal-based fisheries policy where high-quality raw materials are prioritised and where we invest heavily in technological innovation and the market. I am pleased that the frozen fish strategy for seagoing vessels to which the government has provided has been reversed, and that a reasonable increase is different from the case. We coasters can't in any way reconcile ourselves with the fact that those who have been given concessions to create the greatest possible value out of the community's fishing resources will continue to do a miserable job based on both economic and ecological criteria. Our entire coastal culture, which is the basis for optimally hosting our resources, is thus put at risk. I would also like to address the proposals that we have raised in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1392	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1397	The fish in the sea has probably been there for thousands of years. Fishing strips and fishing methods have developed over time. Knowledge and technology make it possible to capture more of what is viable. Distribution between different fleet groups was introduced and quotas were introduced. The principle of rocking by this division of fleets has been an impressive principle all the way and is something that everyone has been following. SV has a proposal here today that they will start converting and transferring quotas from trawl to coastal fishing. I wonder if the representative can answer who will be responsible for the costs of the shipowners, fishermen, fish processing establishments and communities with such a change. Are the taxpayers or are the coastal fishermen going to get the new dishes? Or is it the people involved who have now invested both the capital and the labour force?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1406	SV has not answered all of the questions. This is the wording of our proposal that is being discussed today, as he is. Once the seagoing jet fleet has been invited to do a job for the fishing community along the coast, invited to fill out the season, and they do not deliver when they do not deliver the fish they are actually going to deliver, and when this happens with full handshake from right-wing governments – one after the other – among others. by making provision for universal service obligations, etc., etc. When the damage that has occurred along the coast continues – these are fishing values of between 8 and 10 billion. kr – we see no other way to ensure that these are resources that benefit the coast and society than to reverse that social contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1412	I'm a little surprised when the representative Knag County claims that it's not the coast's resources, and that fish are not landed on the coast. There are not so many options. A fish is, to the extent that a fish is, seen from my point of view. The important thing here is that we secure agricultural resources throughout the year in the best possible way. That's one of the reasons why we have a jet fleet. So it wants to get rid of the representative, while he wants to send tiny shards up the barents to fish these resources in a bad winter day. How will he secure the land industry fish all year long when a fisherman in the Barents Sea with small boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1417	SV's solution is a set of different measures, including: live storage, open up to after-selection, which allows one to expand the season quite a lot. We also want to invest in new technologies that allow one to get a much larger and more diversified industrial production, which can be accepted, for example. both salmon and cod on the same plant. Thus, one could have a much larger network of installations along the coast. Industrial trends are going in the international direction of smaller units, not larger. These are good news for Norway. When it comes to universal service, we see that the places it operates are where there is identical ownership between the boat and the facility, i.e. a relationship between who owns the boat and who owns the facility. That's where it works relatively well. This is important for those fish beings, but it doesn't work very well when it's not related to this type of thing. I think it's strange that right here indicates that today's system works in a way – it just has to be regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1426	SV declares – will many claim – war against the seagoing jet fleet with the proposal to reduce quotas for trawlers strongly in favour of the coastal fleet. Historically, fishing has had ups and downs, where the sea fishing fleet has fished in Greenland waters and at the Grand Banks in Newfoundland. Not least, one traveled to New Zealand at times when there were difficult conditions and quotas were low. If you go down, you get a compliment from the authorities and fishermen as far away as New Zealand for this fleet, which has actually worked up international dishes for large parts of Norwegian fishing. So this SV will just skip one bar at a time. They don't see the value of the founding work that the sea fishing fleet has done, when we're getting 2 pst after all. of the world's food production from the seabed. How will SV solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1433	This is an unlikely strange interpretation of the SV written in the setting. There are no oceangoing boats in themselves we want to take allowances from. The whole pelagic sector works great. Herring, mackerel, semolina, etc. are fantastic industries, which also have a higher level of exploitation and processing of fish, which should be much higher than today, but it has worked in a much better way. What we're talking about here is that part of the fleet that's come in from the sea to cover parts of a season where the coastal fishermen haven't been able to deliver fish before, and they haven't been able to deliver on the social obligations they have. This is no war against ocean-going fleets at all; it is a criticism of a small group of trawlers who have entered into a social contract and have not delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1440	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1443	The resources of the sea are an important part of the contribution to feeding people in the future and can become a significantly larger part. This is why two of the UN's new sustainability targets, to which Norway has committed itself, are also aimed at conserving marine resources and rebuilding damaged ecosystems. Norway, of course, has a special responsibility in this regard because we manage unusually large and rich seas. For Norway, as we all know, fish have been important for more than a thousand years. In addition, aquaculture has become a major industry. And in a future where Norwegian value production and jobs must be created elsewhere than in the oil sector, there is no doubt that the living resources of the sea will once again be one of our most valuable opportunities. The potential is enormous for products and industrial development based on large species-rich marine ecosystems that Norway manages, if we manage them properly. Today Norway manages most of our marine resources well, but this has not always been the case. What has made the difference has been solid, independent expertise and political will to base management on this knowledge. But at the same time, in parallel with this, we see the farming industry as a gruesome example of the opposite -- the size of the population places less emphasis on research results, and one has a government council that states that he does not understand the prerequisites for research. The breeding industry is permitted in Norway in 2016 to have no control over either its own parasite and disease situation or its adverse effects on the coastal environment and salmonids. When the government presented a communication to the Storting about a competitive seafood industry, we expected the Greens in the Environmental Party that professional and resource assumptions were given great importance. This is what we expected especially when we know that climate change is now putting the entire marine resource system under a very large and very inconspicuous pressure for change. But the big message unfortunately does not meet this expectation, and I am among those who are amazed at how little the message contains of concrete measures in other parts of the seafood industry than exactly the vessel sector. A competitive Norwegian seafood industry, and not least a seafood industry to develop and provide the basis for new industrial activities, according to the Environmental Party of De Greens, deserves a number of more comprehensive assessments of organisation and instruments than we have received in this Communication. There is today a significant gap between the unusually valuable resources that we are able to absorb from our oceans, and the level of processing and value creation that we get out of it. This is a challenge that I think we need to keep to ourselves, even after this message has come, because it is more to pick up, and we need to take this challenge more seriously than the message does. In any case, the Greens say that we will see the obligation of activity strengthened, not liquidated. Where industrial trawlers do not fulfil their obligations, the quotas should be reallocated because it is absolutely essential that the social contract around the Community's fishing resources be fulfilled. At the same time, the recruitment of young fishermen should be strengthened and recruitment quotas established. Here the fleet is less than 11 meters important because you can get in there without buying any allowances. The small boats should be considered to provide more opportunities for fishing throughout the year. In addition, I stress that the Greens disagree with the government's proposal to rationalise universal service and remove processing obligations. Norway has an ecosystem-based management objective. This means that environmental and ecosystem considerations are to be overarching in management. So it's not about balancing interests in this case, but it's about environmental assessments having to be premise. It is this that is the absolute prerequisite for a long-term, sustainable and thus competitive maritime nutrition. That is why the Green Party believes that the ecosystem perspective and climate and environmental efficiency should be included in the mandate of the Commission proposed by the Committee – a proposal that we also support. The last part of the proposal we are promoting here is as follows: ‘The Commission shall make concrete recommendations to ensure the commitment to a climate-resilient, climate- and environmental-efficient, ecosystem-based and socio-economic solution that contributes to profitability in both fleet and industry, while contributing to coastal district settlement and employment.’;» I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1465	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1468	I want to open up to thank the committee, which has had a good dialogue in the course of the debate, I understand. I believe that there are many good and wise assessments that the Committee has made. The government presented the notification of the seafood industry with concrete measures based on the order: the competitiveness of the seafood industry in Norway should be strengthened. I believe that that sentence – strengthening the competitiveness of the marine food industry in Norway – is also the solution to many of the challenges that several of the big business representatives point to. We now see, especially in these times, with low oil prices and increasing unemployment, that this is more important than ever. We have to show ability to change and flexibility, and we have to do it now. I note that the opposition in parts of the area will continue to investigate and develop new strategies. I understand that, but maybe you should have acted more for the sake of the industry. Now things happen quickly. International trends and international needs are going storming ahead, and winning markets in the future now requires a Norwegian seafood industry that is adaptive and capable of winning markets. Seafood exports set new records, but although export figures as such are good, the bottom line of the seafood industry shows that the conditions for further processing in Norway are not as simple. My last visit to Poland was a confirmation of that. More than 200000 tonnes of Norwegian seafood are exported to Poland and processed there. I believe the industry has faith and the research has faith that if you can change your mind, you will be able to cope with this competition. Marine food is a value chain, so everything from resource research to the development of fully automated fillet lines is important for the seafood industry. The Committee has now entrusted the government with the task of drawing up a stock and resource research escalation plan aimed at developing and implementing multi-stock management models in fisheries. I'm serious about that problem. The majority of the Committee has endorsed several of the government's measures to increase the competitiveness of the Single European Act. Among other things, we need to: work for smoother, good-quality raw material access and the out-of-date movement of the quota year. We will continue to strengthen key inputs such as research and development and work along a number of axes to ensure market access and competitiveness, promote increased flexibility by opening up on-board production for non-universal cod trawlers and setting up an expert panel to look at simplifications and improvements in the system for the first-time marketing of fish. To the last point, I would like to stress that I fully agree with the Committee, which boasts that industry actors have reached an agreement. This was also in line with the intention in the communication that the different parts of the value chain for wild fish have to work more together. I want to continue working on the good cooperation that underlies. At the time of the introduction of the obligations, the aim was to ensure activity and thus to settle and employ coastal districts. What everyone now seems to agree on is that this is not being fulfilled, that the obligations do not contribute to this today. A Joint Liaison Committee therefore wants a broad Commission to look at the three obligations as a whole. I will, of course, ensure that such a Commission is brought down as quickly as possible, so that it can start work on a final solution, that the industry can get predictability as quickly as possible, and that the industry is also given a safe signal about framework conditions that stay in place over time. This wasn't the government's first choice, I just have to admit it, but with the debate that has been, I think it might make sense to do it this way, even though someone in this room thinks that the undersigned was cowardly in that way. Marine nutrition is becoming important in the future. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the best possible use of our resources is also a strengthening of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1494	The Minister of Fisheries is referred to in several newspapers as the setting up of a Commission to look at universal service obligations is entirely in line with the government. Today he took a little rest and said that at least it was not the first choice. But the government's starting point for a commission was actually to discharge the obligation of activity. The delivery obligation was to be regionalised and processing obligations were to be removed. The Committee has not supported this and has also stated that the Commission must have a much wider and larger mandate than the government has proposed. Citation from the setting of the Committee: «The Commission shall make concrete recommendations to ensure a socially sound solution that contributes to the profitability of both fleet and industry, while contributing to coastal district settlement and employment.» Does the Council of State still believe that the government's proposal and the committee's position are consistent, and does the Council of State support this mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1504	I thought I was pretty clear from the pulpit now. I repeat: this was not the first choice of the government, but with the debate that has taken place, I see that it may be reasonable to extend the Commission's work so that we get the widest possible settlement – in order to create predictability. I have not stated that the government's intentions were what the Business Committee has fallen into, but in the context of the fact that a leader of a Northernland Regional Council – a party colleague of the representative Heggø – said that it was a wish, I said at the time that it sounded very wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1510	Then we're going to go a little bit further, because we're never going to be any people who have said what here, and we can let that lie. When the Prime Minister was in Question Time as late as March 16, she was a little foggy about her statements in several areas, among others. on cod hotels, on too little raw material for all coastal communities in the north, and on what she had seen and experienced when she visited the fishing industry in Finland in 2002. But what she was aware of was that universal service would be regionalised, and that this would lead to job closure in the north. It was necessary to sacrifice some communities in order to have other, robust coastal communities. Does the Council share this view of the consequences of the government's original proposals on universal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1519	The original proposal of the government was to regionalise. That means that the raw material remains in the three northernmost states. However, some have interpreted it as removing the obligation to provide services. I saw last night that the staging representatives claimed that we had proposed to remove these three duties. This is not a reality. But we still thought and believe, in fact, that a certain form of regionalisation would mean strengthening the coastal communities to engage in business. But now the Business Committee has asked me to put down a commission that will look at all these duties in the context – which I think is wise. Of course, on the previous question from the representative of Heggø, I will follow up on the mandate and what the Industry Committee has said I should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1526	I am very pleased that the Council of State ends its contribution by talking about predictability being important to this industry. I also underlined that in my article, because we're not going to be world leaders as a seamate if we don't give predictable framework conditions. I am also pleased to hear the Council of State say that it is wise to look at these three obligations in the context, as this Commission is now going to do. Not only should you look at the three duties, but you should also look at three areas: economic, legal and socio-economic. Let's see if they can be tightened up, cancelled, adjusted a little bit or maybe other, wise things that this room hasn't thought about. It's also possible to think that someone has more knowledge than this room. I am concerned about the pace here, for this great crowd should adopt this. Can the Storting get presented so that we can deal with the next spring in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1535	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Heimdal: what industry and the whole chain need now is a decision that is the widest possible settlement at the back. Now you have to have predictability and clear frameworks, because if not, as politicians, we cannot expect the industry to follow up on the ambitions we all have for this growth – whether it be fisheries or aquaculture. That is why I am very concerned to have close contact with the nutrition committee – also with this Commission – but I see that the committee has made a tight progress. I am now running and I am checking what kind of mandate the Commission will be on, because it may affect the composition of the Commission. It's about things like whether or not to be presented to all the departments, whether or not to have clearance in the government, whether or not to go to public hearings once or twice. All of this I am working on now, but my starting point today is to deliver an attitude to the Committee and the Storting based on what the Committee has asked me to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1540	I want to ask a question about the part of the industry that has its origins in salmon farming. It was an interview in the Official Journal of Bergen on 1 April, with which the Council of State is probably familiar. I'm going to leave the piece about the researchers, but the council says in this interview that you should have a five-six growth in salmon farming until 2050, and that you should assume that this is justifiable. On the other hand, the setting for the aquaculture message says: ‘The Committee emphasises that, if growth in the production of the farming industry is to be allowed, it is essential that growth is environmentally sustainable.’ So one does not establish that it is sustainable, and as far as I know, the Stortinget has never made a decision on a five-six-fold increase in production. My question is: does the Council of State agree that a growth in salmon industry and the industry related to salmon must be sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1556	Yeah, it's going to be sustainable. That is why, at these times, I have looked at the follow-up to the farm notification, as the Stortinget has decided, in relation to the production areas and what is to be taken into account for this growth – this so-called traffic light system, which I expect the representative to be aware of. This shall be reached at the hearing as soon as possible. Then I must be allowed to say that both the sitting government and the previous government have shared these ambitions to exploit this potential. And so when I say this potential, it's not me or the government or any other government that has said that this is possible, and this is a potential. This potential for growth has been calculated by our leading researchers and was presented by the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and the Norwegian Technical Academy of Sciences in 2012. So if you're going to assess whether you have faith in scientists or don't have faith in scientists, I have faith in researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1563	One thing that is good reason to rejoice in what we are dealing with here today, and which is also expected of the Council of State to be pleased, is the agreement to ask the government to investigate an escalation plan for Norwegian stock and resource research. The councils have also been involved. The whole value chain in the Norwegian fishing industry is at risk of missing significant value creation and many jobs because we do not know enough about important populations. This has been central to the Left in budgetary negotiations, as it has done for the Christian People's Party, from the fall of 2013. And we have achieved good results in the budget in processes that have gone. Now it's also inside the message, and there's reason to be very happy about it. What I am concerned about, and which I would like to have a clear message from the Council of State, is: How important is this to the Council of State, and is this something that the Minister of Fisheries will give priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1570	:Absolutely! Norwegian fisheries policy is based on success, where we have been good, we are good, and we are engaged in extensive cooperation in resource research. Then I can say now that I was very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left were promised the budget for stock research for the current year. I hear that someone thinks I should put the budget balance on the table here today. That requirement does not come from the left. But we have already had a budgetary conference. We are going to have new budgetary conferences for the autumn, and it is clear that when the Storting is so clear and clear that funds, resources research appropriations are to be increased, it will be easier for me to meet the Minister of Finance during the budget negotiations for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1575	I don't know how many times the minister called "research" in his post. I think that for most people who are in this room, it seems quite hollow. The events in the last few days have demonstrated a minister who has a flexible relationship to free research. When research is manipulated, it's no longer researching, then it's an order shop – then it's something else, then it's advertising business. So you can't talk about research if it's manipulated. This is what all those appointed to the Minister of Fisheries who he had at the meeting and in the days afterwards perceive by e-mail with the Official Journal of Bergen etc. Everyone understood it this way, but the minister meant himself to be seriously misunderstood. There is nothing to help if ministers help and try to smooth out, only the Minister of Fisheries can respond to this. Will the Minister for Fisheries withdraw their statements, as has been said and written in the Official Journal of Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1580	It is possible that the representative has received all these feedback. That's possible, I can't guarantee that in any way. I also register that the representative believes that I as a State Council should resign. And I record that the representative wants to have a dishes. I record that the representative has appointed himself and declared himself to be my busman – I respect that. It's okay, we disagree. When I say that the Marine Research Institute is going to be business-friendly, it means nothing more than that those who are researching the issues – which are important both for industry and government – are going to have a good dialogue with business, other research environments and the authorities about their research. I am concerned that research should be as far as possible. I have massive confidence in all the research communities in Norway. I have had a comprehensive travel business – I have stated and certified this to the research communities. The fact that the representative disagrees, I just have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1585	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1591	Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. Every day there are 36 million Norwegian seafood meals around the world, and I'm absolutely sure they're without busmen. Fishing resources have helped build and shape our nation. The industry is very important for both value creation, employment and settlement along the coast and for the whole country. The potential for further growth is great. We have to make the right choices today to achieve the goals we have set for Norway as a maritime nation. Recent years have seen several key reports and strategies pointing to the industrial strengthening of the growth potential of marine industries. The Twitterås Committee would base sustainable production on market conditions. Common to several of the reports is the view that Norwegian seafood will play an important international role. Some of the most important measures we have put in place to contribute to increased profitability in industry are quota flexibility between years of cod fishing, full-year employment strategy in the fisheries industry, residue and by-product strategy, recruitment and incentive strategy and landing of the whole fish. If Norway is to become the world’s leading maritime nation, it has to be invested in all parts of the marine value chain, and we need to develop more in Norway. In order to increase the level of processing in Norwegian seafood industry, access to high-quality raw materials must be ensured throughout the year. Competence and recruitment are key factors for future growth in the marine food industry, which requires increased commitment to research and innovation. Enterprises that succeed in the food industry are characterised by strategic market thinking and continuous innovation. The seafood industry invests in new technologies and labor-intensive operations are automated. In all competition, we need to take advantage of our advantage even better to offer our customers fresh quality fish. In Norway, we need to focus more on marine research and development, so that we can exploit the potential of marine space that we do not yet use. Here, Norway already has great opportunities through the positioning of the seafood industry in a global market. But we also have extra good opportunities to find the best solutions by thinking the whole value chain more closely and cooperating across other food chains that are at the forefront of market competence and technology development. The interaction in the value chain is a key factor and the challenges of attracting all actors in the same direction are not always a simple task in the field of fisheries policy. The government had to meet the great resistance to changing the activity requirement of the participant law, which would contribute to the industry being given the opportunity to own the fishing vessel, and failed to take that fight – that’s good. Now we have to work to achieve the goal of becoming the world's leading maritime nation. For future generations this will be important to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1610	Norwegian seafood is highly export oriented and is part of a global competition. In principle, we have a well-functioning framework for trade with the EU, yet we still face challenges in maritime exports to the EU. Then it is very good to record that it is a co-ordinated – at least almost – committee that will improve the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime food exports. As a previous speaker, the export value has increased considerably in recent years, since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. However, the competitive situation is worsening every year for Norwegian maritime food exports, when important Norwegian maritime food competitors get better conditions into the EU than Norwegian exporters do. Neither Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement, which regulates trade in fish, nor the 1973 Free Trade Agreements guarantee free access to the EU market for seafood. Canada’s free trade agreement with the EU includes zero customs duties on fish, and other important competing countries such as the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland already have better conditions for important seafood products for the EU market than Norway. This applies in particular to shrimps and pelagic fish such as herring and mackerel. Under such conditions, Norwegian vessels may have an incentive to deliver, for example: in Iceland, upon receipt of access to a market, in addition to Norwegian reception as market access wear. Nor will there be industrial workplaces on land here with us – as simple as that. Then it is that the Faroe Islands and Chile have zero customs duties on salmon in their agreements with the EU, while Norway’s agreement with the EU increases customs duties with increased levels of processing. Nor does the EEA Agreement provide protection against trade restrictions from the EU. The more protectionist we are in our agricultural policy, the more protectionist the EU can become on fish. It has shown us history since 1990, with the EU's measures to prevent Norwegian fish from entering the EU. It is also a reality that many of the countries to which we wish market access will require market access for their agricultural products in exchange. The EEA Agreement says that we should not link fish and agricultural products in negotiations with the EU, and the government has followed this very closely. However, I believe that if we are to have full market access for fish to the EU, we must be willing to discuss this very principle. When I meet Members of the European Parliament, the feedback is clear. The rhetoric is: if Norway is to sell more fish to the EU, the EU must be able to sell agricultural products in Norway. I think it's the right way to go. If we are to achieve our goal of better market access for fish and greater value creation here at a time when every job counts more and more, we need to be willing to give something in return for something. I heard that the representative Pollestad in his post today also made it clear that he thought market access was very important, and I wonder if he would like to have this as a free passenger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1625	Norway is a seashore. In the Workers' Party, we will bet on the natural advantages that the sea, the fjords and the long coastline give us, in order to ensure value creation and employment. It is good that a strong majority in the UK have agreed on several good measures that stimulate better profitability in the rural industry. Norway is a small nation and cannot be the best in all fields. One of the fields in which the Workers' Party wants to invest is the seafood industry. We want to actively facilitate this, for example. through the instruments of industrial policy. It is a pity that the government has closed down the Marine Value Creation Program in Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway and innovation in this sector are among the things that need to be addressed — and not less. The marine value creation program just contributed to that. As the representative of Knag Fylkesnes was involved, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre propose the creation of ‘a dedicated marine food industry programme in Innovation Norway to stimulate product and market development, automation and quality development’. It's a shame the other parties don't join this. In that part of the country that I come from, there's a lot of focus on shrimp, and there's no small industry. In 2014 it was sold approx. 36000 tonnes of crustaceans and molluscs for a total initial value of 1,1 billion. kr. In South Norway there are two processing plants and approx. Twenty goes into twenty again. It's a pleasure to hear about Stella Polaris and the health food sale of shrimp calls to the United States, which is now approved – if I understand correctly. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that determines that the residue needs to be exploited better than today, and that this will bring both economic and environmental benefits, but that it also has an ethical acceptance that one exploits the marine resources better than today. In the FiskerybladetFiskkaren we could read about the agricultural cooperatives TINE and Nortura, which through the company Skala bets on the production of protein products and oils, based on, among other things. fishing nets. Finally, I would like to point out that if the government had been able to implement its policy, many jobs around the coast would have been closed down and the basic laws of the fisheries policy would have been eroded. So it's good that the Storting has taken back control of the fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1638	The fish is the community's resource, and it will continue to contribute to the value creation and employment of local communities along the coast. We see in the matter that the value of Norwegian maritime food exports in 2015 was 74.5 billion. kr. I am pleased that a large majority on the Stortinget are calling for this, and at the same time I note that the government has failed in several specific proposals which I believe would have negatively affected many of these coastal communities. In my part of the country, the Minister for Fisheries and the Government have been very dissatisfied with opinions and proposals on future fisheries management. Fortunately, the Stortinget and the Committee have gathered on a number of proposals that are important to the coast, and I am particularly pleased that the Workers' Party has taken advantage of a number of important principles in the fisheries policy that contribute to increased profitability in the seafood industry. The fish is and shall be the community resource. It is therefore gratifying that what we call the 'basic law' of the fisheries policy is established, with the participation law and the Fisheries Act. As a representative of the Nordic fishing community, there has been a lot of tension associated with the government’s proposal to remove today’s universal service regime. That's not strange, because this has actually meant the future to many in this community. Luckily, however, the obligation to supply, the obligation to operate and the obligation to process is a package of measures to ensure that universal trawlers ensure fish processing facilities, stable raw material supply. This is about the company's social contract. The reason why these companies have received a derogation from the Participation Act is that they should participate and create ring-effects, activity and profitable jobs for the benefit of local communities. Fortunately, the government has suffered severe opposition in Stortinget, including from its own representatives. There will be no change in universal service now, but a Commission will be set up to make concrete recommendations in order to contribute to profitability both in the fleet and in industry, and contribute to settlement and employment in coastal districts. This is quite clear from the Storting, which the Minister for Fisheries must take into account in the Commission's work. I would also recommend to the Minister for Fisheries that there be a good and broad representation from North Norway – and the Nordic countries – when he puts this Commission down. I am also pleased that we are now facilitating fishing activity on Svalbard. I must say I am a little surprised that the Right and the Advance Party are not involved in this proposal. So it's very good that you also add up to full-time jobs and focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1661	126 years ago, the Trollfjord Battle in Lofoten stood. I say that to illustrate, because what happened then was a struggle between the capital-intensive side of the fisheries – motorboats – on the one hand, and common fishermen on the other. Actually, this illustrates the potential for conflict that lies in this industry, but also the benefits that can be obtained. As we all know, there is a majority in this room to abandon the government's proposal to make changes to the so-called supply obligations, i.e. the obligation to offer, process and operate. I noticed that the representative Grimstad – and State Councillor Sandberg in so far – said that the obligations did not work as intended. My impression is that the obligations have not been followed up, and that is something quite different. This significant nuance may explain why the government has been obsessive about industry and the population in this matter. It has bombed on the basis of the notification of the marine food industry. There is a majority in this Chamber to ask a Commission to review the obligations. This Commission has to make concrete recommendations that take care of the intentions of the obligations, and then we have to look at what they were. They were that we should have a socially good solution that contributes to profitability, both in the fleet and in industry, while at the same time contributing to settlement and employment in coastal districts. For our communities in the Nordic countries that have groups that have these obligations, there has been a great deal of commitment to the government's proposal to regionalise the obligation to provide, to liquidate the processing obligation and to end the obligation of activity in the long term. The government's proposal would lead to today's practice, which, however, is contrary to the intention behind the obligations, being legalised. This would mean that a few people in this country would gain control of large natural resources, which in the marine resource law are assigned to the people. In a democracy, it is the elected assemblies that make decisions on behalf of the people. We can't move this power to the wheelhouses, to the bridge in Tromsø, or for that matter to Aker Bridge. Fortunately, the parties to the government have turned around, so there is now an overall committee which is behind the comments and the mandate of the Commission. It is a victory for the popular uprising we have seen along the coast in the last year: a commitment from fishermen, fishing industry workers, local politicians, trade unions, rapporteurs, regional councils and county councils. This commitment also appeared clearly in consultation here at Stortinget. Then it's important not to minimize the government's defeat, because it's been pathetic. The majority have rejected the government's proposal, and the coast has a expectation that one will not try again in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1674	Some of the best government has done for the coast, is to stick its legs so that the attempt to weaken universality ended up with a belly pad here in Stortinget. When the government wanted to weaken universal service, erode the law of participants and have more structuring, the protests came from all over the coast. The proposal for which the Minister for Fisheries would have cut the ties between the valuable quotas and the communities to benefit from them. The majority of the population here at Stortinget determines and rings the principle that the fish should be the community's resource, in line with the message from the coast. The rapporteurs have spoken warmly, people have gone on trains and written reading articles, and the debate has gone. I am happy to be from a part of the country with so many dark counterpowers, to use the concept of the Minister of Fisheries. Without the commitment we've seen, the result could be a completely different one. The Minister for Fisheries has received a very clear message. The Minister of Fisheries has a house on Senja, but the message he has received, clearly and clearly, is that it does not help to have a north-eastern address as long as south-eastern policy is pursued. I am also happy to live in a country where our research institutions have in the purpose paragraphs that they should be free, not that they should be entrepreneurial. The marine research institute, Norwegian stock management and Norwegian stock research are internationally recognised, the research is thorough and independent. The Minister for Fisheries has raised concerns about his opinions. He has said that research should be free, but he has also said that it should be nutritious, and it is a research policy limbo that is impossible and so far also quite bad to look at. Everything that can crawl and go within academia responded to these statements. No government party has defended the statements of the Minister for Fisheries, but the Council of State does not choose to go back to a single comma in its opinions. I would like to say to the Minister for Fisheries, who has signed up, that he has the chance from this chair to make it clear: shall the research be free, or shall it be nutritious? It can't be both at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1681	The size is today to adopt a policy for the management of our marine food resources. The position of the working party is crystal clear: we establish the principle that these resources belong to the community and should benefit the coastal population. I am pleased that the same principles have been implemented by a majority of the parties in the Stortinget. The government's attempt to deconstruct important laws, such as: proposed in the Maritime Food Communication, will not become the current policy. The government has gone on a real click. This is a defeat for which former fisheries minister Elisabeth Aspaker and current fisheries minister Per Sandberg are responsible. But with fisheries minister Sandberg entering the arena, the change of words in the fisheries policy has risen to new heights. As shuddered in the sieve, the Council of State has been rushing to dissuade both political opponents and researchers, with names such as 'dark men' and what is worse. One of the negroes of Norwegian fishing research, Professor Svein Jentoft at the Fishing University School, got to react. He accuses Per Sandberg of wanting to crush the research, an opinion that many share. Jentoft says it like this: ‘Sandberg must find that there are professional environments that do not talk to him after the kangaroo. As a society, we need alternative perspectives, not ideological one-trackness. Policy is getting better when it encounters resistance, including from a professional point of view. I understand that Sandberg does not accept this." Prime Minister Erna Solberg is also on wild roads. On questions in the Labour Party's Ingrid Heggø's Questionnaire, if she still believes that the Finnish mark-ups should find themselves other than fisheries, as she recommended in 2002, she confirmed it far on the way. Travel industry is now bigger than fishing in Finnmark, so they have listened to the 2002 Council, the Prime Minister replied – about a state that does not lack raw material in off-shore sea areas, to put it mildly. Then she followed up with a statement that, seen in the light of the seafood message, becomes quite eloquent. The Prime Minister said that the raw material is shared by many, it is becoming less profitable for everyone. The question that then comes up with a lot of weight is this: how few should it be in the industry, and how much do they have to earn to talk about profitability? The government has now said something about that precisely with the proposal in the message about the severe weakening of the three duties, which had meant the hook on the door of very many coastal communities in the north. So that's not where the profitability is going to be. But then a total number of large numbers have been able to prevent this, and they are now asking for a commission to be set up to review the three duties, based on the intention that lies there, and make a recommendation. Then, like more people here, I'm going to expect that there will be a wide North Norwegian representation in this commission. After all, we are talking about matters relating to the northern part of the country, and therefore ownership of any changes and improvements must be anchored in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1697	Let me say it like this: I've gone on a bigger smack than what happens in this case. To put it straight out, as I have said repeatedly today, I think there are a lot of wise judgements and decisions that the committee has made. But when I listen to the debate, I register three-four representatives from the Workers' Party who have almost already concluded that the obligations should not be touched. I have been commissioned by Stortinget to put down a commission that will look at these obligations in the context and make a proposal for a vote. But I hear that the representative Henriksen, among other things, accuses the government of eroding the law of participants. There is nothing in the government's communication that concerns the law of participants. But – on the contrary – the sample that the previous government put down, the Tveterås Committee, suggested some changes to the participant law. I also think it is important to create predictability and framework conditions for what we all agree on is the most important industry in the future, to relate to the realities of treatment. I'm recording that some parties want to phase out, or remove, the jet. Yeah, maybe we should put down a commission to look at the results of that. As a result, there will be 130 000 tonnes that coastal fishermen will have to pick up in some way. This is probably going to mean a terrible environment, because you have to have a lot more vessels to go far and pick up – emissions. Security will be significantly reduced. Concentrated fishing takes place from January to April, which means that no cohesion is achieved over the year – i.e. greater uncertainty for all-year workplaces. You're probably going to get a price collapse. I don't know if the fishermen want it. When you get so much raw material in such a short period of time, the price goes down. And probably we won't have any industrial capacity that can accept this in such a short time either. I think – and there are several people who have been involved – that you are too little good at bringing forward the positive. There's a lot of great happening in North Norway. It's a good development, and there are surprises in Bø in Northernland. Honningsvåg – great development. In Mehamn, 10 million are invested. $6 million. $4 million. kr there. In Båtsfjord – perhaps the world's most modern fileet line. Ants – enormous development. That's how I could keep going. So there's a positive development in North Norway. Why can't you take that into account and ask those who are now implementing a new industry and who are searching for raw materials all the time? Then I'll just take a correction, President, if I may. It concerns Heggø, who says that the EU has adopted a landing order. This applies to all fish on land, not to the whole fish. These are two very different things. We have an ambition to have the whole fish on land, not all fish on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1710	One gets the impression that it is because of the Minister of Fisheries that Norwegian seafood is doing well. It is well done in as short a time as Minister – I must say that. It is striking that the Minister has also concluded on how this system should be. In his eagerness to ridicule the desire to move and phase out the sea-going trawling that is fishing on these resources, which are linked to land along the coast, he goes a long way in saying that it is only the fleet that can do that job. Then it becomes relatively hollow that response from the minister to the representative Henriksen that he has not pre-concluded. I took the floor to mention something of what the minister said in his reply in the reply. When the Minister of Fisheries refers to opponents of opinion as ‘dark forces’, it is clear that there will be reactions. We are many along the coast, we are many in the north, which are different in the government's fisheries policy, which will be a straight line of coastal communities for enormous values. Talking about "dark forces" is bad. But if we're going to be part of this comic book story, I guess I could be the Minister of Fisheries' bussman – that was my point. So one got asked. All of us who want a coastal fisheries policy, which is based on the law that the fish should be the Community resource, which will benefit the coast, are not ‘dark forces’. So to the big question of the Minister of Fisheries' relation to research. In his reply in the reply, the Minister for Fisheries did not go back on a comma, but there were only certain clarifications — stated on the statement. The e-mail exchanges between the Minister and the Official Journal of Bergen are still there and are lighting up against us. And just to illustrate how serious this is – there is no game: Norway has had a fantastic fishing cooperation with Russia, the most successful fishing cooperation perhaps in the whole world. It's based on researchers being able to talk freely to each other across borders. When the Minister for Fisheries has expressed doubts about the integrity of the most important professional environment in these negotiations, it can simply lead to a hapharesis of the good relationship we have with Russia. I therefore ask the Minister again to come up to Stortinget's chair and say emphatically that he withdraws the statements that came at that meeting and that have come in an exchange of letters with Bergen's Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1721	I'm just going to take some quick clarifications. Thanks to the representative of Fylkesnes, who explained and said that the disaster we are now facing was due to the right-wing governments over the last few years and the fisheries policy that has been under way. So you're assuming that SV, who has been in two of the last four governments, has participated in a strongly right-wing government, to quote the representative correctly. So to part of the others, first the representative Botten: More research – yes, I fully agree. This is why the government provides more research so that we can research more in the industry – more research on enterprise-oriented actions, more research on resources, more research on institutions. Therefore, the Communication emphasises so much more research and development in order to lift this industry and give it stronger competitiveness. So to some of the last representatives, especially from the North and the Workers' Party, who have developed the great find-orders, such as the Trollfjord Battle and fulfilment of the obligations. I fully agree that how to manage those obligations and how to respond to or sanction breaches of those obligations is important. Therefore, it is regrettable that the previous government, when we discovered a breach of the delivery obligations, left the case in the office drawer of the second state council Trond Giske, doing nothing about it, did not take this seriously. It has also coloured the debate. So to all those who believe that the government is trying to erode the fishing industry, the fisherman's "fundamental law" and everything – here both the representative Henriksen and the representative Knutsen are quite crystal clear. It was the selection set up by Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, called the Tveterås Committee, which proposed that if we are to market this industry and liberalize it as much as possible, those laws should be removed. Councillor Elisabeth Aspaker was quite quick and said that it is not relevant, but I note that the Workers' Party in later debates has taken advantage of the opportunity to try and stamp that government. It's unfair, and it's wrong. It was the government-reduced Tveterås committee that made these proposals, but the government has not promoted them – it must be clear. So until it's really about: a competitive seafood industry. Be aware that even if half the time in the debate has been about delivery obligations, most of the raw material that this industry is going to process comes from the coastal fleet – 70 pst. the cod quota comes from the coastal fleet. What's the job now, is to make things right so that we get this raw material stretched over the year and are of such quality that we can master the market out and get the most out of it. Then we're going to take the little adjustments to the universal raw material when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1736	I have to say, for my part, that I have listened to the Councils of the Fisheries States on the inflated and puffed-out radio – and seen in newspapers – several times say that he is completely misunderstood, and he has made clear his intentions in his statements. The fact that one of these speakers wants you to go down on your knees, because one has come up with a statement that others can interpret quite incorrectly, is a bit strange. So a little bit to the debate that has been. We have a number of representatives from the Workers' Party who say that the government would impose the fishermen's 'fundamental law', but the Storting put the foot down, and the duties were not changed. Nothing has happened. It's a unified committee that agrees that a selection should look at this, so it's the status quo when it comes to this. The failure was actually the local communities who felt that a change in the regulations of participants gave concession to trawlers who were going to deliver to given plants, and then later divided it into two legal companies. So one also criticises that universal service was replaced by the obligation to provide, and then one has to ask, "Delivery obligations versus obligations to provide, for whom is it best? Is it best for a plant that is so full that one must say that no, it is for the moment full, then offer the fish to others? In fact, it is best for the farm to say that one should offer the fish to others. Or would you still like to have it so that one can say that no, I can't offer the fish to others, because I have a universal obligation to this plant, I don't care that it's full, I have to deliver here, because I have a universal obligation only to this plant. So to the representative Bell Ljunggren who says the duties were not followed up. The case spokesperson was aware that it was the red-green government that put its hands in jail and let this happen over time, too long, without being taken care of, but it was a good opportunity to do something about it. Martin Henriksen was also interested in cutting the link between the quota and the plant, and again I say: it was the Labour Party that did that when they divided these two companies, it was the Stoltenberg I government. Participantlova has set requirements for active fishermen to participate. This is what the Labour Party itself chose to put a line across, and it is in many ways, as many claim, the main reason for the problems that rural areas have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1755	There are a few things that really deserve a little more attention, but the time is running out, so let me try again: Of course, the advice and recommendations of research should be professionally independent. Otherwise, research is not worth anything. Storing and government prioritizes the areas in which research is to be carried out, but we should not interfere with research methods and results. That is why I am now renominating the Scientific Council of the Marine Research Institute. But: All research is obsessed with uncertainty. And let there be no doubt: Norway has been and Norway is going to be the country that spends the most resources on this type of research, but that does not mean that policy can put two or three lines under all the answers we had to get. That is why we need to develop knowledge further. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea provides knowledge that is crucial in all areas of fisheries and aquaculture. – Then I think I have been quite clear. So to the proposal on your own marine food industry programme. Now I'm not going to talk on behalf of the parties in Stortinget. But on the government side, we believe that we already have this type of programme. The government prioritises nationwide schemes through Innovation Norway, as the 2016 budget also shows. There are several reasons why I am a little skeptical or want to have general programmes in terms of innovation. As far as the competitive part is concerned, there are many different challenges for the marine food industry. And last but not least: Increased complexity requires a combination of knowledge. I also want to mention this with recruitment. So we have youth fishing, youth quotas, student enterprise schemes, educational quotas, school quotas, recruitment quotas, and we're going towards this amazing thing in Bergen, with the civil engineering part. We have a lot of higher education areas where more and more young people are now taking the direction of fisheries and aquaculture. We're betting widely to get recruiting, and I think we'll succeed in doing that. At least that's what I register when I'm out traveling. Then I would also like to say that when the swallowing message is presented, of course, fishing will be well mentioned there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1770	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1773	The representative, Mr Grimstad, claims that we demand that the Minister for Fisheries should kneel down, but that is not what this matter is all about. This case is not about what we want, it's about repatriating the trust of the Marine Research Institute as a free and independent research institute, which is not easy to manipulate. And the Minister of Fisheries' statements from this chair have been read about in newspapers – that's much of the same thing as was said here, as was said there. The problem is that the minister does not go back on, does not withdraw, he was appointed by e-mail to Bergen's Official Journal in an interview with them and in meeting the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Marine Research Institute. Why doesn't the minister go back on these statements, why does it get clarified, just? That's the big question, and that's what's in doubt in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1780	When the representative Grimstad says that the company organisation is the reason why the various obligations have not worked, I have to say that the assumption from the Workers' Party has always been that the obligations are clear that the companies should follow up, regardless of how they are organised. They will be followed up, and I expect that there is an attitude shared by the Right and the Advance Party as well, and by the Government. Something else would be quite mind-blowing. Then the representative Grimstad also says that he has heard the Minister for Fisheries recently saying that he feels completely misunderstood. There is no one in this room or in this Kingdom who has not heard the Minister for Fisheries – now or before he became the Council of State – claimed to be totally misunderstood, preferably weekly. The point here is that the Minister for Fisheries has had quite different expectations for the research of the Marine Research Institute, when he thought that it should be both free – yes, of course – and that it should be nutritious. I was thinking that it is possible for the Minister for Fisheries to think that research should be nutrient-oriented, which is something other than business-friendly. In that case, there is an honest mistake, which the Minister for Fisheries, having read through his statements in the Official Journal of Bergen, has the chance to correct. But the Minister for Fisheries said more. He also said about the ambitions for growth in the marine food industry that the marine research institute should ‘share ambitions’ for growth, and he said: the marine research institute ‘should assume that it is sound’. It is also a position on free research which, at least for me, as a representative of the Education Committee, is a bit amazing. The role of the marine research institute and the research institutions must be to determine whether it is sound and, where appropriate, in what way it can be justified, not to assume that it is almost without further delay. I am relieved that the Minister for Fisheries says another thing here today, but he has not gone back on his previous statements. I can't help but admire this ability to either mean more things at once or to interpret myself much more freely than anyone in this room, academy, the press, trade unions or anyone else has ever done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1791	I also want to make some comments for some of the articles here today. The first is for the representative Trellevik, who is on the floor and wishes to express his own opinion. In fact, when a blending agricultural and fish market access customs walls, this is contrary to what has been said in the Committee's position. I would like a clear answer from the Right: Is this the right point of view? Elevation of the participation law is a number of things that have been mentioned here today. Yes, the government is proposing permanent derogations for new species, for LUR species, for seaweed. This stops Stortinget, and then it must be allowed to say from the pulpit here that Stortinget stops a hollow. This was the representative of Grimstad who mentioned it, if I am not completely wrong. It was the same representative who was about the changes in the fish salad law. I just have to admit that when I first read the message, I actually believed that this was a calculated defeat from the government's side, that one had realized that the majority of people were talking about something else, but during the debate today, I understand that this was not the case. The government also proposes changes to the law in the message, and then it must be allowed from the pulpit to say that they maintain a void, for example. the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not agree that the expert group should remain within the Fish Salmon Act. There's a private outside. Since I first got – or took – speaking time, there's something I didn't at all have to do with my first post, which is to stop the structure that the government has laid down. The Council of State must have noticed that a Joint Committee has said that the implementation of amendments in the field of structuring should wait for the work of the Eidesen Committee, precisely because we want a holistic approach to structural policy and thus see the consequences of these changes. So we have to expect that the Eidesen selection can continue to meet without ever getting any new changes into the image. I mean it's good that Stortinget put his foot down there. Sandberg will not realize that the highly disputed instructions would have led to the disappearance of the medium-coastal fleet. – It is all of us who have misunderstood, including the Norwegian Fisheries Team, who submitted a seven-point plan to the Council of State and asked for changes at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1800	The majority has withdrawn the fisheries policy, says Odd Omland. Yes, I fully agree with Omland in that, and it should just be missing with the constellation that we have today on the Stortinget. Through dialogue and discussions in the Committee, we have achieved good fisheries policy objectives, and we have some processes that are being presented to the Stortinget today. What I'm more amazed at is how some people try to do a large number of the lost hits in the business committee's proceedings. The fact that Stortinget has a broad consensus – and then I say really broad agreement on the most important fisheries policy issues, which is most important for the marine food industry – helps to give it the industry and parts of Norwegian industry the predictability and the framework you can expect to get from Stortingen in terms of both investment and how to act as a business operator. That is what matters to those who are going to feed, and that is what should mean for us who are going to run the fisheries policy. I believe that the Storting can be both proud and satisfied with the way this is done, and with what is going to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1807	Quite a card to the representative Heggø regarding the law of participants. The government’s communication states that the government will ‘implement the activity requirement of the Participant Act’ and that the government will ‘implement practices other than the activity requirement, which also facilitate the appropriate development of new biomarine activity’. We also made it clear during the work of the committee that the government would not have a permanent derogation from the participation law, as Hegø claimed from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1816	I got a question here from the Labour Party representative on trade policy. So in this big message that we are discussing today, we have a statement that we want more market access, but we have to look it up against the defensive trade policy that we have in other areas. But we haven't defined what we mean by our defensive trade policy. Then we have to go back to Report. St. 29 for 2014-2015, on globalisation and trade, and see what the Stortinget meant then. For we have just addressed a big message on globalisation and trade, and it goes much further when it concerns market access for fish than what we are doing in this big message here today. In fact, she suggests that achieving our objective of market access for fish will have to lead to changes in Norwegian policies in other areas. I don't quite think about it, because I don't have the message in front of me, but I have a good cover for what I brought up in my article today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1821	Now the case rapporteur was up and made a correction. It's also very important, I think, when discussing the most important industry in the future, that at least you're pretty precise. The government has not proposed to ejaculate the participation law. On page 49 of the message: ‘The activity requirement is established as a basis for the government’s fisheries policy.’ It's below point. 7.8: ‘– Continue the activity requirement in the Participant Act’. It also says: ‘This is a continuation of the principles laid down in the Notice. St. 22 the world's foremost marine mammacy». [[2012-2013]] Then I find it a little strange when you have come so far in the process in the committee, that it is still believed that the government has proposed to undermine the law on participation in the activity requirement. It's directly wrong. Then I have also registered the opinion of the representative Heggø that my instructions from 12 January have been stopped by the committee. It must be a misunderstanding. My instructions from 12 January have nothing to do with what is underlying the committee. On the other hand, the directive of 12 January – contrary to what has been said in the Committee, which must be fully respected – does not now structure until the Eiden Committee presents its position. I fully agree with that – done with it, so we don't have to discuss it any more. The instruction which fell on 12 January applies to something else: Granting of admissions to participate in an application for the replacement of a fishing vessel or the splitting of fishing permits under the Participant Act. It's something completely different. One must say that one would have stopped the instruction from 12 January, which already works, if one has a wish to do so, but then one must propose it. But if you were to cancel the instruction from 12 January, it means liberalisation. It means back to the old system, where you can, under the discretion, open up for the transfer of allowances from below 11 meters up. If that's what's wanted with that, I think it's a little weird. Now I have the Fishlayer's input to assess in relation to some changes. But they are not the same as the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party wants. The fishing team wishes to adjust this instruction, inter alia: to continue the ban on moving allowances from less than 11 metres upwards. But they also want to introduce a new group of 21 meters. It is very important to clarify that there are two different things, but when the Storting has said no structuring now before the Eiden Committee presents its position, I am, of course, obliged to follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1864	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1871	The Committee, with the exception of members of the SV, supports the government's assessments and proposals in the proposal. Unfortunately, there is enough reason to believe that the ministry is right when they write that this is about risk capital. Why, then, is it right to support both the provision of capital and the conversion of loans? Yes, because there is still a possibility that the coal market will turn around and that in the future one will have profitable operations. But perhaps equally important: the coal industry is so important for the settlement and business of Svalbard, and for the Norwegian svalbard policy, that the closure of the coal industry should not be a result of the economic situation in the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani – it is a political decision. The Committee notes that one says something about the forthcoming swallowing notification, and that one asks the government to take up the uncertainty regarding the prospects for further coal operations. That means, as I understand it, that we believe that one in the design of the svalbard policy must take account of different futures, where coal and coal are not part of the future of Svalbard. Then there are several instruments to ensure settlement on Svalbard, which could be tempting to come in. In the previous case, a majority proposal was put forward pointing to fishing activities and the use of marine resources. I just hope that the government towards the presentation of the swallowing message has an open mind and is receptive to the input of measures necessary to ensure the Norwegian swallowing policy and the Norwegian settlement there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1882	Large Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani is in a difficult situation, which means that they now choose to reduce coal operations to a minimum level. This is because not only does the situation look demanding in the short term, but it appears that the low coal prices persist, giving rise to a demanding economic situation in the long term. This is particularly demanding given that for many years the jobs associated with the coal operation of the group have contributed significantly to stable Norwegian activity and residence on Svalbard. Many employees have now been laid off, yet we see that the resource base can provide new years of production if the market turns upside down. The size has already agreed to purchase property from Great Norwegian for 295 million. kr and increase liquidity by 205 million. kr. The size has also redeemed remaining shareholders in Great Norwegian to provide the State that owns increased flexibility in the further development of the group. With this decision, Stortinget grants 144 million annually. kr for a period of up to three years from 2017, which is conditional on the market situation being as bad as it is, and the need for a continued rest period. It is important to have a professional state ownership that ensures sound operation and social responsibility and takes care of the employees in this situation. This situation is challenging the development of the swallowing society in the future. The size has asked the government to provide a swallowing message that can describe the direction of how society in Longyearbyen can develop in the future given the uncertain future of coal mining. It is reported to come in April, which we believe is high time. The Workers' Party believes that the conversion of the swallow-bard society must begin now, while there is still coal-fire there, and we believe that Great Norske must have a central role in this work. It is also clear that research competences, travel, space, fisheries, the marine sector, port development, infrastructure and preparedness are areas that should be included in such a commitment, which we also expect to be in the government's swallowing notification when it comes. We believe that industrial development and activities, resource use and research should take place within the framework of the conservation of Svalbard's unique natural environment and cultural heritage. Today’s decision prevents a crisis, but the case also shows that it is important for the government to focus on the swallowing effort and to present in its notification measures and direction for the conversion and development of the swallowing society — quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1893	Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani is the cornerstone of Norwegian presence at Svalbard. The company's activities have created jobs and a full-time presence on Svalbard. Norwegian sovereignty requires us to be present, and the loss of mining activities will significantly weaken the basis for Norwegian presence. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal for a decision and participates in and forms the majority in the position of the Business Committee today. But this decision we are making today is not a simple decision, because through this decision we are involved in subsidising polluting coal activities. With an increasing amount of climate noise and rising temperatures, there is concern that we are doing this at the same time as we have a responsibility to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. However, the Norwegian presence at Svalbard is so important that we still choose to support this proposal. At the same time, it is important that the nutritional basis of Svalbard be further developed so that the Svalbard community has more bones to stand on. Both the research activity in Longyearbyen and New Ålesund, and especially travel life, are important. New jobs have been created and must be created, and new industries must grow. The Christian People's Party therefore has a strong expectation that the nutritional basis of Svalbard and the questions surrounding it will be answered in the government's notified svalbard announcement. In the previous case, we dealt with the maritime food industry notification, and it is therefore also appropriate to recall its setting, which is designed to increase fishing activity on Svalbard. These are examples of measures that are necessary to obtain a broader business base and more jobs outside coal. A warmer climate also opens up to new waterways. Preparedness, rescue and service will then be important to have good and realistic plans and activities for. We see this matter in a larger whole and support the government's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1910	There are enough people on Stortinget who thought it was a little special that we should constantly allow new money into an even environmentally hostile mining on Svalbard. We had things up just a year ago, and it's been rounds here before. All posts have a bore mark that now we need to take the big step and help Svalbard get other legs to stand on. Svalbard is extremely important for Norway, and having a proper plan and strategy for the island must be of the highest importance. When we just keep giving the same answers over and over again, it's problematic. It's a kind of microcosm of the situation Norway is also in general, where we continue to have very good framework conditions for an industry that isn't future, while what we see is the future industries, they don't get the same framework conditions. When it comes to Svalbard, there have been some ideas about fisheries, tourism, etc., but there is little concrete commitment. What Svalbard really needs now is that the big community really invests in what's going to be the future of society. And as long as the big investments don't go to it, but go to keep this environmentally hostile business alive, we're at a disadvantage, and we can end up in a much more difficult situation for Svalbard than today. Norway has already decided that the oil fund is going out of coal. The fact that the Storting manages to agree that investment in coal is stupid, but at the same time huge money is involved in holding up coal operations on Svalbard, is also not logically consistent. I encourage this whole Big thing to work for the future Svalbard and look at the new, big solutions, and that we don't get into the same situation once again – next year. It will, I think, not be taking Svalbard seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1923	It was the previous speeches that made me take the floor. When he uses words like ‘continually’ and over and over again, it is creating a wrong impression of what Great Norwegian has contributed. Great Norwegians had stable profits for many years and contributed to profits to the state, but then there was a dramatic fall in coal prices. First of all, SV’s attitudes in the attitude reveal that one does not understand how extensive and challenging the transformation to which the Svalbard society is subjected. Everybody's up to it. The entire committee realizes that here things will take time. When you point to an overall strategy, which the government is going to come up with, as a solution to today's situation, it would be dramatic for the Svalbard community if the government did not take responsibility for it through this proposition. It is absolutely necessary to make capital injections in order to keep the activity up today. It has to be related to SV. The government takes that responsibility, certainly not with an easy heart, but that's the only option we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1932	It's probably exactly one year since the department promoted the previous proposition about the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS. After a rapid treatment in Stortinget, the necessary decisions were taken at the time to allow the mining activities of Great Norske to continue with minimum production in 2016. The company was added 500 million. kr by the government purchasing land from and lending a loan to Great Norwegian. Now, when it's necessary to promote a new proposition, there's more than one aspect. Firstly, it says something about how challenging the market conditions are for coal. In the last year, large Norwegians have carried out large and demanding cost reductions. However, the company is now in a situation where, at the discretion of the board, the market is so demanding that further re-examination in Lunckefill, in the short term, is not commercially feasible. Secondly, the demanding situation of the coal industry in Great Norwegian underlines the need for the conversion of the Svalbard community. The government is taking an active role in this, and I have noticed that the committee in its position is concerned about this. On a proposal from the government, Stortinget has already granted 50 million. kr from the State budget in 2015 to jobs and conversion in Longyearbyen. The government will also promote its own big message about Svalbard, where this will be the theme. The Ministry has put forward a proposal seeking to address the different concerns of the Great Norske and Svalbard communities in a good way. Following an overall assessment of the importance of maintaining and further developing society in Longyearbyen in a way that supports the overall objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy, the government proposes that the State owned in Great Norske contribute capital to facilitating operational rest in Svea and Lunckefill for up to three years and to the continuation and extension of operations in Gruve 7 in Longyearbyen to two shifts. The proposal is in line with the recommendation of the board of directors of Great Norwegian. Further operations in Gruve 7 will contribute to the continued supply of coal to the power plant in Longyearbyen for a decade. Operational rest in Svea and Lunckefjell for up to three years will facilitate the maintenance of some activity in Svea during a demanding transition period. It will provide opportunities for mining start-ups in Svea and Lunckeberg if coal prices increase significantly during this period. Further operations with two shifts in Gruve 7 and operational rest require the strengthening of the capital and liquidity of the Great Norske Group. The Ministry proposes that, in 2016, Great Norwegian be allocated new equity to investments, working capital and other activities in order to plan operational rest in Svea and Lunckefjell and to initiate two shifts in Gruve 7 as well as to partially cover the group's unsecured pension liabilities during the operating rest period. In order to continue operations in Gruve 7 and carry out operating rests in Svea and Lunckefiell, the Great Norske Group will need additional liquidity at the end of 2016, inter alia. in order to serve intragroup claims and external creditors’ claims against the mining company in the group. The liquidity need will depend on the economic development of the company in 2016. The alternative to providing such capital would involve bankruptcy in the mining company. In addition, the implementation of operational rest in Svea and Lunckefjell, with current market prospects and expectations, requires an annual allocation of 144 million. kr for up to three years from 2017. As stated in the proposition, the government will come back to the Stortinge on this, among other things. based on the further development of the market. Finally, let me thank the Committee for a quick and tidy examination of the matter and express my satisfaction that an overall committee, with the exception of the member of the SV, will conclude whether the proposal has been promoted by the department. I think it's a strength for the further development of the Longyearbyen community and the transformation that's going to happen now, that there's a great deal of consensus about the steps that are now taking further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1949	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e1965	The EFTA trade policy strategy has mainly been to follow the EU in obtaining free trade agreements with other countries. The aim is to ensure Norwegian and other EFTA countries' business as good market access as EU business in important markets. In the 2000s, EFTA was also ahead of the EU in some cases. The agreements with Singapore, South Korea and Canada are examples. Today, the EU also has agreements with these three countries, now most recently with Canada, and they are more extensive. EFTA must now follow up on updates to these agreements. This applies in particular to Canada, where EFTA has only one trade agreement. The priorities of the EFTA Council for the first six months of this year were to continue negotiations with Georgia and the Philippines, resume negotiations with India and Indonesia and have two rounds of negotiations with Malaysia, and start talks with Turkey, Mexico and Canada to update, modernise and extend the free trade agreements with these countries. This is all right, but if we compare it to the trade policy programme of Trade Commissioner Malmström last autumn, the ambitions are a little bit more puzzled. One thing is the EU's ambition to conclude TTIP with the United States, the free trade agreement with Japan, the investment agreement with China and resume the negotiations on a free trade agreement with ASEAN. Equally interesting are the objectives of using trade agreements to strengthen the work of ensuring sustainable development, employee rights, corporate responsibilities through the value chain and human rights – and safeguarding the European social model and regulatory standards. In other words, a trade policy to promote and safeguard European values. In the light of the debate on what TTIP and TISA can mean for Norway and our political space, national and local, it is of great importance that the EU strategy states that EU trade agreements should never prevent governments from governing and organising public services, regulating and setting standards and never requiring privatisation. In the EFTA context, we are much more modest in our objectives. I remember well the fight that was waged, from the Norwegian side, to get accepted into the EFTA family to demand their own chapters on sustainable development and employee standards. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee of the European Parliament was a driving force in this work. We finally got a pass at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Reykjavik in 2010. Until then, consideration of the environment and decent working conditions had only been referred to in the so-called foreword. The question is: Will the government take the initiative to develop an equivalent, broader and value-based trade policy strategy, on which the EU will now focus? Through EFTA, we have a comprehensive network of free trade agreements, but it is a challenge that Norway is without agreements with some of the largest and fastest growing economies in the world – Japan, India, the United States, Brazil, Indonesia. Another challenge is that modern trade agreements have evolved to be far more extensive than in the past. Now it is less and less about tariffs and more and more about broader agendas, such as investment, standards, environmental considerations, employee rights and development elements. In addition, we see the development of regional and multinational agreements with strong elements of global and regional power policies. This requires new approaches and new approaches, including for us and for EFTA. In many emerging economies, investment will be important for their development. This is an area where Norway can take advantage of the oil fund, but in many of these markets investments may be risky. Last year the government sent out a model for bilateral investment agreements, BITs, at the hearing. Since then we haven't heard anything about it. The size gave some overall leads in the Message settings. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. What's the government doing? Has it found a model that it believes balances investor protection against illegal regulation and the right of countries to legal regulation? The EU has launched a new model dispute resolution panel on investor protection, with a permanent panel of judges, and has been implemented in its agreements with Canada and Vietnam. I think this is a model Norway should end up about, because it meets a lot of the criticism of having different panels on a case-by-case basis. What is the government's view of this? A third important element of the new EU trade strategy is transparency. EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström and her staff have monthly meetings with the European Parliament's Trade Committee, INTA, as well as regular meetings with case rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs on different negotiating lines. A reading room has been set up for the members of the European Parliament where all documents, including the positions of the counterparty, are presented. Corresponding reading spaces are set up in the Member States to enable national parliamentarians to follow the progress of the negotiations. The Danish reading room was recently opened. The need for more transparency in trade agreements has led to this practice during the new Commission, also initiated by the growing debate on negotiations with the United States on TTIP and the TISA negotiations. The Commission also publishes its own positions on EU websites. However, the members of the European Parliament, and in particular the members of the Committees, are thus given additional information and basis in order to be able to record and participate in the public debate that is taking place during the negotiations. The European Parliament has also adopted, by a broad majority, a comprehensive opinion leading to a TISA agreement, the views of the Commission know it must base its view on the fact that a negotiated agreement will have a majority in Parliament. The government — at home here — has a trade policy liaison body with representatives of civil society, NHO, trade unions and trade and development policy organisations. These are regularly briefed on the TISA negotiations and probably have more detailed insights into these negotiations than we do at Stortinget. It is good that civil society is included on advice, but I think we need to think again also about how the Storting should be kept informed along the way. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a written question as to whether he would publish Norwegian input into the TISA negotiations and, in an appropriate manner, regularly consult the Stortinget on developments in the negotiations. The answer was that the government is seeking transparency about the TISA negotiations, and that he intends to publish an update of the Norwegian offer when it is available and that he will consult the Stortinget appropriately, as it is called, along the way. Well-reading is a positive answer, but it is not a matter of initiative to bring more insight and publicity to these negotiations, which is currently being debated. It is a debate which, as far as I can understand, is concerned with undue concern for the consequences, especially when reading the demands made by the European Parliament, and the demands of EU trade policy are based on both political governance and action spaces and standards in the environment, consumer protection, etc. It's just openness and insight into what's going on in the negotiations, that can eliminate this kind of turmoil. Therefore, the invitation to the Minister for Industry is that she inspires her colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to be more offensive in terms of transparency about the negotiations for which he is responsible. It will also make her job easier in the negotiations she is responsible for. One of the last challenges facing Norway and the other EFTA countries after 23 June is the United Kingdom. If the British voters say no to Cameron's agreement with the EU and yes to the United Kingdom leaving the EU, they will also leave the EEA and us. Norway will stand without a trade agreement with one of our largest trading partners. Has the government and/or EFTA started preparing for such a situation? Although it is likely to take time before the United Kingdom is out of the EU, there will be very many countries outside the EU that will be in the same situation as us, and there will be very many countries with which the United Kingdom will have to negotiate agreements. I think it is important that Norway does not last in this queue. EFTA will hold its ministerial meeting this week after the referendum. The outcome — especially if it would be a ‘Brexit’ — should naturally be a theme of that meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2009	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for focusing on the value base of the Norwegian trade policy. This common basis of values is and has been essential for the general general expansion of Norwegian trade policy that we have had in the United Kingdom, in the labour market and in Norwegian business. Trade policy is an important prerequisite for Norwegian business and for the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and therefore for the creation of value added and the basis for the welfare society. These issues were addressed in depth in the main communication on globalisation and trade, which was presented in May last year. I will come back to the contents of this message. In the transition to business, it is even more central that Norwegian enterprises are guaranteed market access and good and stable framework conditions in foreign markets. The changes in the oil sector mean that the mainland economy, both the export industry and the service industries, must contribute relatively more to the creation of value added and employment in Norway. This transformation in Norwegian business is already under way, and we are gradually getting more bones on. Norwegian trade policy choices must reflect the changes in the Norwegian economy and take on board the changes in the global trade policy image. Global trade policy is largely defined in bilateral, regional, megaregional and plurilateral trade agreements. We need to look at our trade policy in the light of these changes. Last year's announcement of enlargement on globalisation and trade provided us with a good basis for this. Norway is, through EFTA, part of a comprehensive network of free trade agreements. We are negotiating today with a number of important trading partners, focusing on the emerging economies of Asia. We have ambitions to modernise the agreements with Canada, Mexico, Chile and Turkey. We're having a dialogue with the United States and the South American Mercosur Association. Among the plurilateral processes, I would also like to stress that the negotiations on a service agreement in TISA will be very important for the Norwegian service sector. We share the values that the EU presented in its strategy ‘Trade for all’ last autumn and have applied the same principles in our various trade agreements for a number of years. Norway and the other EFTA countries and EU Member States are anchored in a common European value tradition. This is reflected in trade policy, where the same values and principles are used by EFTA and the EU for their work. Through our trade agreements, we recognise the environmental and social dimension of trade, and, like the EU, we can state that trade agreements we conclude should not restrict our right to regulate the society we are set to rule. I would also like to take the opportunity to stress that these agreements do not require the privatisation of the public service. These principles are otherwise governing all work in Norwegian trade policy, in bilateral agreements through EFTA and for agreements between several countries within and outside the WTO. Initially, in the FTAs, we reaffirm the principles underlying the agreements, including: common values, such as our support for democracy, the rule of law and human rights, to work for sustainable development, thereby recognising the link between trade, the environment and workers' rights. Our rights and obligations arising from membership of the ILO and multilateral agreements, the fight against corruption and the promotion of good governance and the importance of corporate social responsibility for sustainable development are also underpinned. These principles are enshrined in the international declarations to which Norway has joined, inter alia. in the UN, OECD and other organisations. The social and environmental dimension of trade has become more prominent in recent years in the debate on trade policy. In 2010, EFTA countries agreed to include in all their agreements a chapter on trade and sustainable development. Norway was a driver to get this done. The chapter is presented in all negotiations, be it with new partners or when updating existing agreements. The provisions on trade and sustainable development of EFTA agreements are somewhat different from those of the EU agreements, but offer the same level of ambition and commitment. Our free trade agreements are thus anchored in our values and reflect the relationship between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. In other words, trade agreements are actively used as an instrument in promoting Norwegian values. Although EU and EFTA trade policies are based on the same value base, there are important differences in the form of cooperation chosen in the EU and in EFTA. In the EU, a common policy is pursued in a number of key areas of the single market, and the EU is a customs union. Although individual Member States may have different industrial interests, EU cooperation creates different conditions for pursuing a coherent policy on, for example: foreign, environmental and labour market areas. EFTA, for its part, is a free trade association which does not have the ambition to develop a common policy in these and other areas. Nor do we have a customs union in EFTA with common external tariffs. This is also reflected in the fact that each EFTA country enters into a free trade agreement with the respective partner country – it is not EFTA as an organisation that concludes the agreements. Nevertheless, the EFTA countries are drawing up a common approach to the issues raised by the representative Hansen through a very close, and let me add, very good cooperation. The EFTA countries share a common value base, and we actively use trade agreements to promote this. There is no disagreement among EFTA States as to how these issues should be reflected in the FTAs and we will continue to update this work in order to reflect the global development of trade policy where such issues become increasingly prominent. However, given the good cooperation of the EFTA, but which is nevertheless of a less committed nature, and the different policy conditions of the Member States, I am doubtful whether it is appropriate that the work on these issues be reflected in a separate EFTA strategy paper. I believe it is more important how these issues are addressed in the agreements we enter into. The government's trade policy is in continuous development to adapt to the economic and political realities of our export-oriented business and to reflect the values and attitudes of the Norwegian society. In May last year, the government presented the first single commercial policy notification in almost 30 years, where the points highlighted by the interpellant were dealt with very carefully. The Communication gives an adequate account of how the government’s trade policy reflects issues such as sustainable development, employee rights, corporate responsibilities through the value chain and human rights, as well as issues related to the government’s right to manage and organise public services and set standards. The communication also provides a picture of the challenges we face in the coming years, and what we see is the way forward. The message was dealt with in Stortinget in January, and I am very pleased that a large majority in Stortinget were behind the main points of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2045	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She says that she is in doubt as to whether these values should be clarified in a strategy paper, if I understood her correctly, as the EU has. It is true, of course, that there is a great difference between cooperation in the EU and cooperation in EFTA – the EU, through its cooperation, will also be able to have a larger toolbox to assist trading partners, especially in poor countries, in incorporating development elements into the agreements. However, I am not so sure whether it would have been reasonable to clarify these values and objectives in a strategy paper for EFTA, because I do not think it is perceived as being what the Council of State said, that these are the values and objectives that EFTA has been working for a long time. I will not dispute what the Council of State said, but I do not think that is perceived in the public debate. We took quite a lot to get accepted to get our own chapters on sustainable development and employee rights and get it more than in the preamble or in the foreword. The goodwill was not as great in all EFTA Member States, I think we can safely establish. I have been following and working in the central political environment since the mid-1980s, and trade policy is one of the areas in which there has been the least discussion, both here in the house and in other forums. We see that when it appears above the horizon, there is commitment out there – it's a demanding field. I think the more transparency and the more discussion we can have about it in the political environment, the better, because that's what the Council of State said, and that's also thoroughly explained in the Report. St. 29 for 2014-2015, on which the Committee fully concluded, is very important for Norwegian value creation. When we export 40 pst. Of our value creation, it goes without saying that many tens of thousands of jobs in Norway depend on exports, and that we have good framework conditions for our export companies. Finally, let me just challenge the Council of State on one thing that we could read in the Nation at Easter, that we do not know for sure who will sit in the working groups that will investigate the consequences for Norway of a TTIP agreement. I hope it's a misunderstanding, even if it wasn't in the April 1st newspapers, because it would be a secret that just... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2056	Then the speaking time was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2059	Of course, I will not dispute the representative's description of how things were going back in 2010. My assessment is based on what I have experienced for well over two and a half years in this work through EFTA, and I perceive that what has been clearly fought through from the Norwegian side in its time, now at least there is as a base wall and is not the subject of debate or negotiations today. Then we can come back to whether to look at this with strategy or not. Just a few things that I didn't mention in the main post. But first I want to answer Hansen's questions related to the impact assessment of the TTIP – it should of course be open. We had an open bidding round, the assignment is assigned. When the members of the working group were not publicly available, it is because they were not yet appointed. But of course, we are interested in maximum transparency, legitimacy, around this very important work done to look at the consequences of Norway, given that the EU and the United States are coming to an end. I was also asked about ISDS, the new model that the European Commission introduced last year. We had, as we know, a hearing related to a model agreement for BITs last year. There were a lot of hearings in the autumn, and we look at both the hearings and the model that the EU has promoted and that is very well suited. Let me also say – I did not respond to this with the United Kingdom’s possible exit from the EU – that we are pleased with the agreement with the United Kingdom with the Commission in February, which also has an impact on our part through the EEA. Neither Norway nor EFTA as an organisation is preparing for a withdrawal, but the United Kingdom is important to us both in terms of trade policy and foreign and security policy, so I would rather say that we are very closely following what is happening in the United Kingdom in view of the vote on 23 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2070	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Norwegian business and value creation are one of the foundations of the welfare society. Norway is dependent on trade, and in a historical perspective, we have been good at exploiting the opportunities offered by trade, and in particular the EEA Agreement is important. As one heard, exports amounted to nearly 40 pst. of GDP in 2014, and a significant proportion of imports are also inputs for exports of goods and services. As the interpellant had in mind, the EFTA trade policy, smart strategy, has essentially been to follow the EU in getting free trade agreements with other countries. The point is, of course, to ensure Norwegian and other EFTA business as good market access as EU business in important markets. Through its new strategy, the EU aims to use trade agreements to strengthen efforts to ensure sustainable development, employee rights, corporate responsibilities through the value chain and human rights. At the same time, I see that it is important in this context to also stress what the EU is now making, that trade agreements should not prevent the right to manage and organise public services and to regulate and set standards, and never imply privatisation requirements. In this context, I would also like to draw a parallel to a matter that is now under consideration by the Business Committee, namely the new law on public acquisitions. This is a piece of legislation covered by the EEA Agreement, partly based on EU directives. The proposed legislative changes come partly from an EU audit of legislation to increase flexibility and reduce administrative burdens on contracting entities and suppliers and to clarify legal issues. This legislation now provides for increased space for action for different societal reasons for the different stages of the procurement process, and at least on our part we are now also concerned with exploiting the space for action in the EU regulatory framework, also in the interests of Norwegian enterprises. I hope that the Council of State will follow up the question raised by the inter-pellant, whether or not the government will initiate the development of a strategy similar to that of the EU related to trade agreements, although I believe that the Council of State determines that these values are nevertheless taken into account. With regard to the debate here at home on TTIP and TISA, the above-mentioned views that I had had were of great importance in the discussion. Another important element has been openness around the negotiations. We now see that the EU demands more transparency about trade agreements, and the progressive debate on negotiations on TTIP and TISA has followed this, and has created a so-called reading room, which also deepens the interpellant. The closedness that has been here at home, among others. on the TISA negotiations, has led to much unnecessary noise, and we are also seeing various speculations about the investigation to be carried out due to the consequences of the TTIP agreement. I hope that the Council of States will help us to have transparency about these issues, as one does in the EU, and that this transparency will be put in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2091	Norway's trade policy should reflect our socio-economic interests. Both industrial policy, development policy and foreign policy interests are to be addressed. Trade is a good thing. It creates benefits, it creates development, and it creates growth for the participants. But the oil price drop that we've had, and the fact that by today's date there are few large oil finds to be mined here in the country, makes us face significant changes in our economy in the years to come. The switchover we are currently in needs to ensure more export of goods and services, so we get more profitable jobs here, rather than the traditional role as a commodity exporter to which we have now had. I think that we need to take greater advantage of globalisation and international trade in goods and services, as well as the oil and gas industries that supply us. The objective must be to establish agreements that make the largest possible contribution to Norwegian value creation, while contributing to global value creation and sustainable development, for the benefit of all parties involved in international trade. We should be among those who are in the forefront of developing modern trade agreements that cover both the scope of trade and trade-related instruments — like EFTA, when appropriate. I think we have to strive for a cooperation that is as open, fair and prudent as possible. An active and open trade policy is very important to understand the importance of trade for the welfare of our country and for each country participating in trade. The Free Trade Agreement with EFTA is a key instrument to promote Norwegian commercial policy interests. In addition, it is of course also resource-saving to negotiate agreements in cooperation with EFTA. The interpellant raises questions about the government will initiate the development by EFTA of a corresponding value-based trade policy strategy that the EU has. The challenge, as I see it, is that EFTA is a relatively small negotiating party and a small player measured up against the EU. The commitment of the EFTA to the EU is necessarily not correct, and we should be able to stand far more freer than the EU, given the situation and individual circumstances, as a significantly smaller player and adapt them to the current circumstances and possibilities that need to be settled at all times. In Report. St. 29 for 2014–2015, which we have recently discussed here in Stortinget, we can read that the government wants to increase trade with, for example. developing countries. Free trade agreements with EFTA facilitate increased trade and economic cooperation, which are positive for the economic growth and development of a country. Factors such as governance, political conditions, democratic principles and human rights are emphasised in the choice of free trade partners. I think that this is a very good principle, and I think it should be a good idea to negotiate good agreements both for Norway and the country we are negotiating with. So the interpellant, the representative Hansen, mentions in his speech that he wants more debate on trade policy, and I support him in that. I would like to thank you for the initiative for this interview debate here today. We would like to have a broader commercial policy distribution and debate here in Stortinget, just to discuss the more fundamental and good aspects of trade, which poses many challenges, but also very much benefit and joy to society, and which become more and more important to us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2108	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate. Interpellanten, Svein Roald Hansen, has been working on these questions for a number of years, and in 2010 the representative Svein Roald Hansen himself appointed as head of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to just EFTA and the EEA, and signed there as vice-chairman already at the time – if I don't remember completely wrong. It was an important debate that went on at the time, and it is right, as the representative points out, that it was probably not all the countries – without mentioning concrete countries – who were equally interested in mixing things other than the purely commercial element into these kinds of agreements. And there are many ways in which part of the discussion went on: are we just going to have the purely commercial policy involved in the agreements, or are we going to be able to base other things on the agreements that are negotiated? One of the things you saw back then was that it could create some challenges. Sometimes it has come down to the fact that with human rights and employee rights it has been natural to include in a side agreement rather than in the main agreement, in the trade agreement. You've also seen other ways of doing it. It is clear that with the ongoing work relating to Indonesia, and we have seen it in Russia, in which one was interested, so that we can quickly turn things around in some countries with regard to Norwegian trade. We have deciphered the largest market in terms of the number of people – and soon also economically – China, where we also see very clear challenges in a number of different areas. So it's clear that the question is where we want and where we're going. I think the Council of States is responding very well, because there are significant differences in the way in which the EU has organised itself through the work of both the Commission and the parliamentarians on who is responsible for what, how to set it up, and not least what is the strategy behind the very association. There is a completely different design in the case of EFTA cooperation. It is clear that we are several different countries, we have different approaches to this issue, and therefore we need to be able to find a solution through discussions with our partners on how to implement these things in practice. Norway is a country that is highly dependent on international trade. Even I come from a district in Norway that is not least extremely export oriented. Just trade agreements are what are involved and regulate these things, which makes you have predictability when you go into the single market, and know what meets you there. It is based on guarantees and guarantees that you get a settlement, and that you do not risk – I kept saying – the withdrawal of both shares and other things as a result of things and elements changing in the country you enter. The Council of State just invited to take that conversation with the other EFTA ministers to see how we can manage to strive for even greater transparency. Transparency in itself is positive, because it will also be a part of, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen is about to create a wider debate on these issues. Clearly, themes and discussions relating to international trade, regulation of international trade, what we are to base on trade agreements, are very important. But I must also be allowed to point out what the ministers are doing to the parliamentary delegations within the EFTA, EEA and others. That dialogue is very important, and I feel that at least in the years I sat there, that dialogue was very open and good. You got information. So it's up to us and those in these delegations to transfer that competence and what's being discussed there, back to the group, back to the Storting, and join in and create the public debate, just so that we can develop this tool even better, so that we also have a greater focus on what this is actually about. And the Council of State comes up with that invitation and says yes, we want to talk to colleagues, we want to go in and look at the way the European Union has arranged – there might be something about these reading rooms, there might be something about the way they do things. The only thing I'm sure of is that Norway is at least served to be a participant in as many trade agreements as possible. It needs our business. And I really look forward to what's happening. We're going to go into it with open eyes and know what we're doing, but trade is what creates development, trade creates relationships, and trade creates good neighbourly relationships, good relations between nations, which also means that even if the countries have a little different device, the dialogue could do us better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2127	Thank you to the interpellant for putting important questions on the agenda. Interestingly, more people in this room today speak out for openness. The centre party and SV make a proposal for openness about the TISA agreement that only got 12 voices in this room, as far as I'm concerned, but it's fun that more people think it's important today. The interpellant points out that the EU through the TTIP will strengthen labour rights, make clearer demands on companies’ social responsibility and generally promote ‘European’ values. These were excellent praises, which are used as arguments from EU and TTIP fans. I want to refer to a document like this. Corporate Europe Observatory reports that they have been contacted by the TTIP negotiations. It states that the EU Commission wishes to establish a regulatory council to co-operate with any attempts to introduce new rules or standards in the EU or the United States. Citing from the document: The EU Commission proposes to set up a ‘regulatory advice that will assess existing and future regulations on both sides of the Atlantic to ensure that they are ‘compatible’ and not undermine business interests. The enterprise will be involved from the start of the process, long before any public and democratic debate takes place, and will have good opportunities to oppose important measures to improve food standards or protect consumers. If any European country wants to introduce better protection of the environment, health, consumer or employee rights, this can be very difficult, because one has to ‘ex ante’ this with representatives of the industry concerned and with the United States. What could that mean in practice? One example is that we can find in the chemical industry. The US business community is concerned that parts of EU legislation are based on elements of the precautionary principle, i.e. that one does not allow anything until one knows that it is not harmful to health. U.S. policies are more guided by the principle that there must be scientific evidence, science based, that something is harmful before one can prohibit it or regulate its use. What happens on the day someone inside the EU suspects that some chemicals are harmful to health? Indeed, according to the legislation proposed, a long round with the United States and industry representatives will have to take place before any one can prohibit it or introduce regulations against these substances. Does the Council mean that leaks about a regulatory council are incorrect information, and that no such regulatory advice will be established, or does it mean – or interpellant for that matter’s sake – that this regulatory board will not prevent governments from introducing new regulations and standards? If the Board of Regulators does not limit its right to introduce new regulations and standards, what is the meaning of the Council? There are different potential models for the coordination of legislation through the TTIP. One possibility is that the TTIP provides harmonisation where the EU and US legislation is similar, both for the production and sale of goods in both markets. Another solution is the mutual bilateral recognition of legislation whereby American producers who obtain their approval for halls in the United States are also granted EU halls approval and vice versa. A third option is mutual recognition where producers from third countries are also entitled to sell their products in both markets when the product is authorised for sale in one market. In an informative study of TTIP, Ferdi De Ville from Ghent University and Gabriel Siles-Brüg explains that if TTIP results in bilateral mutual recognition, third countries are facing an unchanged situation. Today, one must be verified for halls in the United States and the EU separately. If TTIP results in mutual recognition also vis-à-vis third countries, TTIP will not raise global standards but, on the contrary, act as a ‘race to the bottom’, as manufacturers will adapt to the lowest standards in the US or the EU and, through this, have access to both markets. The government's previous EEA Council and relationship to the EU have repeatedly mentioned the possibility of increasing global standards as an argument for TTIP. Can the Council of State or the inter-pellant explain to me in concrete terms whether they believe TTIP will provide harmonisation or mutual recognition of EU and US legislation? Do they think that TTIP will provide better standards in labour law, environment and consumer protection also if TTIP will be based on mutual recognition of US and EU legislation? Back to openness: German parliamentarians have had the opportunity to go to closed rooms and read the TTIP Agreement as far as he has come. It was a quote from one of them, in an interesting chronicle that I was reading recently, which says that there was no mention of strengthened employee rights in one place. It's interesting, given the content of raising standards and what's behind the good intentions of the interpellant proposal, to get a little more meat on your legs if you really believe that this agreement will give such extra rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2154	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for raising an important trade policy topic for debate. There is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian trade policy – it has recently been established during the handling by Storting of the wholesale communication on the globalisation of trade, the first purely commercial communication of about. 30 years. For Norway, a trade nation, and in many ways the last decades have been a golden age for the Norwegian economy. High oil prices and high activity in the petroleum sector have contributed to growth and prosperity. But the fall in the oil price suggests that the oil industry will no longer slow down the growth of the mainland economy, as we have been accustomed to the last decades. It will require conversions for enterprises and workers. The new jobs and value creation must come in the private sector, and it must come in other industries with international competitiveness. In a demanding transition phase, we need more trade and more international cooperation on the framework for trade, not less. Therefore, the importance of the government’s active trade policy, the initiatives taken in international processes, the strengthening of the WTO international framework, the TISA negotiations and the close follow-up of the government by the TTIP process through available channels are so important. So Norway still lacks trade agreements with six of the largest economies in the world. Here it is a formidable task on the part of the government, which I am sure they will take very seriously, because it is important that Norway maintains an offensive trade policy. Good, predictable framework conditions for trade are essential if the Norwegian economy and our business life are to succeed in the transition we are facing. Because this is what trade agreements are all about: securing our competitiveness. The core of Norway's interests is to ensure equal and fair rules of play in today's open global economy. The representative Hansen concerns important considerations such as transparency and involvement, and he says that trade agreements should not be governed by how the public organises its activities or reduce the right to regulate. This is the very support of the broad cross-political consensus on Norwegian trade policy. As the Council of State has clearly underlined, trade agreements will not lower standards. Neither TISA nor other future free trade agreements will reduce Norwegian politicians' right to regulate the environment and safety, consumer protection or employee rights. The issue of safeguarding the state’s regulatory rights is also central to the government’s work on a new Norwegian model of investment agreements. As regards the consequences of the TTIP for Norway, where we are outside, the government has ordered an independent investigation of these. The Council of State has stated that this government shares the values of the EU in its trade policy strategy, and we will, of course, be inspired by the EU on these issues. As former governments, it will not negotiate but will maintain full political space for the production and organisation of hospital services, basic education and welfare services. The Government will ensure transparency and involvement, and not least respect for the principles of trade and sustainable development. In the long run – and therefore – the inter-pellant needs are well taken care of through government policies. Nevertheless, I would like to say that a commercial policy statement and a debate are a good idea that we should look into and assess in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2174	Thank you for the debate, thank you for your commitment. It shows that there is a broad consensus on the importance of trade. The representative Nesvik really raised the question: how much are we going to solve through trade agreements of good things – good regulation, good working conditions, etc.? It has been during the debate we have had in EFTA on these matters. Once the undersigned and Nesvik have traveled around on so-called third country visits, where we have tried to help the government with the negotiations by giving it a parliamentary dimension, our slogan on EFTA to those we have met – whether it be in India, in Vietnam or where it has been – has been that ‘EFTA is pragmatic and flexible’. That's what Ove Trellevik pulled up here, that we don't have as much power to get to maybe everything we want, like a bigger EU has. But EFTA is, in fact, a quite big player, a big trading bloc. We are not so many people, but we are big economies, and the smaller the country, the more trade, while big countries can trade with themselves. But what has gradually emerged in the debate on these things – I think – is that it is the enterprises and industries that are sustainable and that have decent working conditions that have a future ahead of them. It's those who can survive in a globalized world, where it's more about participating in the value chains than selling simple products. I think that's what I've been doing and that we've been focusing on these things in terms of agreement. Then I got some challenges from the representative of Navarsete. To what Navarsete called praises from the EU: I think it would be difficult to discuss these things if, as a starting point, the Commission wrote in its strategy and which has full support in the European Parliament, namely that agreements should not be concluded that prevent governments from managing and organising public services, for example, are just praises, and are being negotiated away. Then the debate becomes quite demanding. I don't know how it ends with the regulatory – whether it becomes mutual recognition or a common regulatory framework. I would think that the probability that there will be mutual recognition in some areas, where the standards are equal, but the way to testing them may be different, is a nearby solution. But I assume that when you say both on the EU side and on the US side that it's not about reducing standards, I think it's actually going to be the result of the final agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2187	Again – thank you for an important debate and for putting it on the agenda. Of course, when it comes to the question of a commercial policy statement, I am more than willing to do so, if the Stortinge would like to have it. This is important, it is in many ways more important than ever for Norwegian business that we have good access to international markets, and therefore this work is so important to the government and high on the priority list. The representative of Navarsete asked some questions about TTIP. First of all, it is important to state that Norway is not sitting at that negotiating table, this is happening between our two main trading partners. What we can do is follow up, ask questions, keep us up to date and, not least, carry out an impact assessment of what such an agreement would mean for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian exporters. There was a question about a regulatory advice. So I don't understand that the parties here are discussing, almost is a new, undemocratic institution that is going to force something down the ears of people. I understand that this is a proposal for a consultation mechanism to have good dialogue and to interact with the development of rules in a common free trade area. And as far as harmonisation is concerned, the TTIP agreement will not affect or force harmonisation through in third countries, the question is whether there is anyone who will not adapt to what is happening in the world’s largest free trade area. That is the challenge if this agreement becomes a reality. When it comes to the question of transparency, we have always been clear that we want to have an open and good dialogue. I would remind you that last year, when we presented a proposal for bilateral investment agreements, in addition to having a consultation period of actually four months because it was desirable, we also organised a large recording meeting where there was an opportunity to ask questions, have a debate on all aspects of that matter – because it is important, and we are concerned that this type of agreement should have legitimacy. Then we get back to BITs when the government has concluded. But it is absolutely essential that our exporters do not get any worse conditions than those we compete with. That is why we must have this high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2203	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2217	Clean soil, air and water are essential to public health. Contamination entering the body causes health problems, because the body's sewage treatment plants are unable to separate everything from the pollution that comes in. Something's left. The result is poorer health. Fresh, clean air is a great asset that people in Norway can have in everyday life. However, not all have that possibility. It is therefore very gratifying to present the opinion of the Monitoring Committee on the National Audit Office on the work of the authorities to ensure good air quality in urban areas, because it is a very cumulative setting. It is a rare cumulative setting, in my opinion, in a field that is very important, and that very many in cities and towns are concerned about. The main findings of the Riksrevision report are that air quality is not in line with the objectives set. Compliance by municipalities and follow-up by the Environment Directorate with the pollution regulation is not good enough to achieve the objectives of air quality. Central transport policy instruments can contribute more to good air quality, and sharing responsibilities and tasks across sectors and levels of management makes it difficult to achieve local air quality objectives. As to whether air quality is in line with set targets, the pollution regulation establishes legally binding limit values for the level of contamination of both particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. More stringent national local air quality targets have been in place since 1999 and would be achieved by 2010, cf. the annual budget proposals for the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The level of pollution of particulate matter has decreased in several cities and urban areas between 2005 and 2014 and the limit values of the pollution regulation have mainly been observed in most municipalities. However, 11 out of 14 municipalities monitoring particulate matter levels are still far from achieving the national target. The level of nitrogen dioxide pollution has been stable over the period. In later years, cities such as Bergen, Drammen, Oslo, Trondheim and Stavanger have repeatedly breached the pollution limit value for nitrogen dioxide, and since 2010 they have also been far from achieving the national target. The national audit considers it serious that both MRLs and national targets are exceeded in many municipalities. The national audit also comes in this setting and in its report with recommendations, which has not been for so many years. The National Audit Office’s recommendations to the Ministry of Climate and Environment are to simplify the target structure for local air quality, to strengthen its guidance and follow-up to municipalities as a pollution authority, to ensure that the Ministry of Transport passes through the division of tasks and responsibilities between relevant sectors and levels of administration, with a view to more efficient use of instruments and achieving objectives, and to clarify for municipalities the measures available and feasible and the impact they will have on local air quality. As I said, there is a very convergent attitude on the part of the control committee, without any divergent proposals. There are some dissidents, and at one point the majority of the Committee, all except the Right Party and the Progressive Party, considers that the Riksrevision here has shown that it is serious when the requirement to investigate measures has not been followed up in a significant proportion of the municipalities. This majority have noted that while the Directorate-General for the Environment’s 2014 guide to municipalities has had an impact on the matter and that the Directorate has started developing better estimation tools in this area, we are still in the situation that there are many more municipalities than those that monitored air quality in 2015, which have too high levels of air pollution. It is an overall committee that points out that the target structure in this area, i.e. the limits and assessment thresholds of the regulations, national targets, the Public Health Institute’s air quality criteria and recommendations made in the Guidelines for the treatment of air quality in spatial planning, provide different objectives with different statuses. The National Audit Office points out that they are only partially comparable, and there is an overall committee that shares the Riksrevision’s assessment that this creates an unbridled picture of levels of various public actions. There is an overall committee that will also point out that this situation becomes difficult for local authorities to deal with, and this shows that there is a need to simplify – I would stress simplification – the local air quality target structure. There is an overall committee which notes that responsibility for following up local pollution is spread across several sectors and levels of administration. The Committee points out that, when examining the national transport plan, the Storting has pointed out that both State and local authorities have a high responsibility to facilitate measures that collectively improve both air quality and accessibility. There is an overall committee which points out that the study shows that the various actors disagree as to the adequacy of the instruments available. The Committee considers this to be a major need for political clarification and leadership – political leadership – in this area. The Committee endorses the comments of the National Audit Office on whether the current division of roles and responsibilities between sectors and levels of government can open up a game that can easily lead to the pulverisation of responsibilities and inability to decide and take effective action. The Committee considers that there is a need to go through the organisation and responsibility of ensuring effective use of instruments and achievement of objectives. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, refers to the Riksrevision that municipalities that have been notified or imposed measures have experienced a lack of impact on state agencies. Among other things, Trondheim and Oslo have asked for more frequent washing of state roads and temporary bans on heavy transport and diesel passenger cars, respectively, but the measures were stopped by the State Road Administration. The same majority share the Riksrevision's recommendation that the State Road Administration should accept the local authorities' orders for action when the municipality is responsible, as a pollution authority, to investigate and implement the necessary measures. There is an overall committee which notes that the government is considering a number of new instruments in this area, including the provision of access to the establishment of low-emission zones, the rejection of ships in ports on high-pollution days, the setting of environmental requirements for taxis and environmental requirements for the public acquisition of vehicles. Furthermore, a common code for urban road procurement and the possibility of environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system is under investigation. On my own account, I would like to add that there is also a need for a legal basis to be able to collect a heavy-duty tyre charge when passing bombing around the larger cities. The current voluntary payment scheme and its associated controls prove to be ineffective, and the large cities want to have such an opportunity to limit suspended particulate matter due to heavy-duty tyres. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the Committee recognises that difficult target conflicts arise in terms of ensuring good air quality in urban areas. Nevertheless, the Committee – once again an overall committee – will clarify that the demands of the population on clean air in cities are also an overall environmental asset in the work on good public health. Where the legislation sets binding limit values for particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, these must be complied with. The alternative is that the legally binding limit values change politically, so that we get an open political change of words about air quality versus pollution related to the necessary – I stress the need – transport work on cars and boats. It is therefore gratifying that there is an overall committee asking for the legally binding limit values to be followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2247	I observe that the Council of State – I kept saying of course – is also actively present in this important debate, and that is good. I would like to begin by saying that I expect the Council of State to observe very poorly what the rapporteur is now doing in a very good way, that in this matter it is a very collective committee that supports the comments that follow from the Riksrevision report. Something more obvious from Stortinget in this important area is hard to give, and therefore I start my post in this way. But I think the State Council Helgesen has understood it in a good way. I believe that the case rapporteur made a very comprehensive and good contribution on behalf of the entire committee and its work, but of course I will also have some reflections on this. Of course, it is very serious for Stortinget to get a report that shows very clearly that air quality is not in line with the objectives set by Stortinget. Now it's not like there's necessarily some concrete criticism about this, in the sense that it's probably very difficult and challenging to achieve the goals that have been set. But nevertheless, it is a fact that we can establish, regardless of the colour of the government, that it is simply so that these objectives have not been achieved. The question that is relevant in such a context in a debate in the United Kingdom about this is, of course,: does it mean that the objectives are unrealistic? Are they too strict, so they're unrealistic? Or do they have a form and a content that is such that they are technically very difficult to reach? I suppose the Council of State will have the floor in this debate, and then we can hear a little bit more about that, because I think it's a very relevant issue that I'm pointing at here. The report states that: ‘air quality is not in line with the objectives set’. And one says, ‘The compliance of the Communities and the follow-up of the pollution regulation by the Directorate-General for the Environment’, i.e. both parts, ‘are not good enough to achieve the air quality objectives’. And this is underlined in the report: ‘Central transport policy instruments can contribute more to good air quality’ — if used effectively. And finally – and this everyone knows, but I say it anyway – the report shows not least: «Distribution of responsibilities and tasks across sectors and levels of management makes it difficult to achieve local air quality objectives.» I am tempted to make a special comment on the very last point, because from the point of view of the Control Committee, which is out of many fields – and I am looking at the Council of State now too – it is typical of arguments as to why we do not achieve objectives, that there is not cross-sectoral cooperation at a good enough level. It's pointed out in the area by area, and so we also experience it in this case. That's why there's an area where I think the government really needs to put forces and commitment in, in order to try to achieve better cross-sectoral cooperation that can help us achieve these very important goals. This is a very serious matter, as the rapporteur also said, and I don't spend much time saying it, of course, because it's very serious. Population concentrations are getting stronger and stronger – almost unavoidable – and we are getting bigger and bigger air pollution problems in areas where many people live in Norway as well. These are also the areas with the greatest demands and needs for transport and communication, and therefore there is a very difficult situation to deal with. We see on a daily basis these challenges in the media related to people, which are simply becoming physically ill by all of it, as the rapporteur was concerned about. In particular, this applies to Oslo, where it is also stated in the report that 100 000 people are affected by health-related air pollution on a daily basis. This, of course, is a very serious situation. That is why the Labour Party says that it is important and correct – I use both words – that the Council of State now says that the government will consider changing the national targets for local air quality in line with the Public Health Institute’s air quality criteria and come back to Stortinget with it. I'm going to listen intensely to what the Council of State says at this point, because it's important, I think, that he deepens this point and confirms that what is expressed in the National Audit Office's report is also reflected here in the Main Room when we deal with this matter. Then I say – but I say it a little with a handshake – that we criticize that it has taken two years for the government to do just this. It's a little critical, but I expect this to be a little bit complicated. I hope that the Council of State can also respond well to the Committee's criticism on this point. Then I have written “critical”, and I mean it, but I also think it is very serious and a little typical that the municipalities do not reach with their proposals for state agencies. There we have again this coordination issue that the rapporteur pointed to, and that I have also pointed out. For the National Audit Office, you say that municipalities that have: ‘announced or ordered action has experienced a lack of impact on state institutions’. That's nice. Among other things, Trondheim and Oslo, which are two important population concentrations in Norway, have asked for more frequent washing of state roads and temporary bans on heavy transport and diesel passenger cars. However, these measures were stopped by the State Road Administration. And here I'm just saying what the representative Lundtigen said, that the majority, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, share the Riksrevision's recommendation that the State Road Administration and the State should accept the municipality's orders for action. So it is also the view of the Labour Party, and I just stress this, because it is not always obvious that the Labour Party believes this, but we mean it in this case. That's why I'm saying it the way I'm saying it. We recognise in the remarks that there are also difficult target conflicts in terms of ensuring good air quality, but I would like to make it clear that the population is entitled to clean air in cities as well, and that there is an overall environmental benefit in work, of course, for good public health. I agree – finally – with what the rapporteur said in a good way, that ‘the law sets binding limit values for particulate matter’, and that these must be followed. - These must be followed. The alternative to legally binding limit values is to change them politically, as the representative Lundtägen also said. This joins the Workers' Party, and I hope and believe now that the government is following this in such a clear way that the Control and Constitutional Committee has presented itself in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2301	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his work. I agree with everything, most of all that he explained to me here, and I can also say that I join much of what Mr Kolberg brought up. This is a matter which is not entirely unanimous, but which is agreed to some extent on what I would call the main problem description and the majority of the solutions. That's why I'm not going to spend a lot of time on just those things, because you can read that in the settings, and it's also explained earlier. But I'm going to address the point where there's a disagreement, the point of the charge conversion that gave significant incentives to acquire a diesel car. It becomes impossible for me to have this debate without discussing that point, although the causes of bad air in cities are many and complex, and unfortunately – or fortunately – are also phenomena that we cannot control politically, such as. the duration of the proceedings. As stated in the statement, a change was made by then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen in 2007 which led to the market share of diesel cars moving from just over 40 pst. up to nearly 80 pst. from one year to another. We also know that the largest emission source in terms of NOx in cities is diesel-powered vehicles, so that the share of diesel cars increases in general, is a problem in itself if you look at NOx. However, the diesel cars that came into the Norwegian market from 2007 are also a different type than the old cars, because the conversion of the diesel cars was not a conversion because they were diesel-powered, they got tax-free because CO2 was taxed higher and NOx was not taxed at all, and it created an incentive for car manufacturers. If they ended up in a situation where they were forced to balance between NOx and CO2, they could completely ignore NOx if there was a marginal reduction in CO2 emissions – and so did they. The technology works so that increasing the combustion temperature of the engine reduces CO2 emissions by a few percent, but multiplicity of NOx emissions. So in a short time, one went from a situation where NOx-powered diesel cars had a market share of just over 40 pst, to a situation where NOx-verts of diesel cars got a market share of almost 80 pst. If you think that a car's life span is usually 15-20 years, everyone realizes that no matter what good arrangements we have on hybrids and electric cars and other favorable cars, it takes time for the diesel cars that are now phased into the road network to disappear again. It is irreversible for all practical purposes. Of course, it is important to remove them, but as I read the political debate now, no one is going to discuss it. So one might say that it's easy to be a follow-up clock, but that's what this committee might try to be to some extent. But here it's not just in the light of the after-clock you can say that you should do things differently. Even with the knowledge you had at the time, you could say that you should act differently. The Public Health Institute strongly warned against the consequences, but the Ministry of Finance dismissed the opinion: ‘There will be no significant health consequences in this conversion’. It was State Secretary Axelsen. What we know today is that it could have been avoided if you had really figured this out, and that's something we have to learn from. So finally, I would like to comment briefly on the comments of the Central Party on this, which defends the change, or at least it is possible to read the comment like this. It is quite right, as the centre party suggests, that replacing petrol cars with diesel cars outside urban areas has a positive effect, because it reduces CO2 emissions, which is a global problem, and increases NOx emissions, which are not a problem outside cities. But unfortunately, there were no instruments involved in this change, which meant that it was primarily outside the cities where diesel cars were purchased. Diesel cars were market-leading everywhere, and the then government spent years responding to the introduction of an environmental differentiation of tolls, among others. in Bergen. Fortunately, it is now under investigation, and we are hoping that this investigation will end up with elevating conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2358	The National Audit Office’s survey shows that several of the largest cities in Norway have adverse health air pollution in parts of the year that exceed the limit values set. One of the problems is that different limit values are set, which give an untransparent picture and make it difficult for local authorities to deal with. This issue also shows the need to simplify the target structure for good air quality. There are mainly two sources of reduced air quality in Norwegian cities: suspended particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. Many people think that car use is the biggest sinner in terms of air quality in cities. An area that I do not find in the report, and which is not mentioned anywhere else, is particulate matter from refurbishment, which amounts quite up to 50 pst. of the fraction of suspended particulate matter. Unfortunately, only car use gets focus when action is to be taken. The problem is more than just driving. The Progress Party wants a more holistic approach and the adoption of best-performing measures. If refurbishment is the greatest sinner, measures should be inserted there. Other measures that are known to have a good effect on suspended particulate matter can be clean-burning wood stoves, tip-top bans, and not least the salinisation of our roads. In the case of nitrogen dioxide, these emissions may be reduced by new engine technologies, such as: Euro 6, and that one gets several ships that are now at port, across the shore, etc. Many of the proposals that have been made to reduce the use of diesel cars in the worst-polluted days have only a symbolic effect on air quality problems. Finally, let me get a quote from the Daily on Thursday, January 7, this year: ‘Sleep dust from urban refurbishment is more dangerous than emissions from cars, showing a report from the European Environment Agency [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2378	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good review, and thank you to the Committee for good cooperation on a very important topic. Since 2001, it has been agreed that transport policy should contribute to good public health, i.e. policy should contribute to good public health. In addition, decisions to ensure good local air quality are being taken as far back as 1998, and it is in agreement that this study from the National Audit Office shows that many municipalities have still not prioritised assessing air quality and proposing measures, as they should, although this has improved somewhat since the entry of the Directorate for the Environment into the municipalities in 2014. However, it is even more serious, in the opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee, that the State, particularly at the Ministry of Transport, which unfortunately is not present here, and the Vegvesen has failed directly to focus on air quality in the transport sector and to provide the municipalities with the means they need. We find many such examples from the National Audit Office that the state has become a direct disability, an obstacle, for cities that want to take action when they look at the period up to 2013. In addition, as we know, we have new examples from Oslo and Bergen where these cities have asked the government to introduce low-emission zones in cities to take care of people's health in accordance with the policies adopted by the Stortinget, but these issues have been directly trained by the government, which obviously does not want that kind of action against car traffic. The main measure taken against local pollution in many European cities is permanent low-emission zones. This applies, for example: Some 50 cities in Germany, 100 in Italy, 15 in the Netherlands, 6 in Sweden, 4 in Denmark and also in countries such as England, the Czech Republic, Portugal, etc., so these are well-tested interventions. The low-emission zones should become a reality in Norway for the very simple reason that they work, and that the option is for cars that destroy people’s health to drive there. The evolution of breaches of the limit values, the judgment against Norway at the EFTA Court – a very, very embarrassing judgment in an international court of law against the modern, rich country of Norway, which is thus unable to keep the air quality in our large cities at a level that makes people not sick of it and that it happens because we do not want it, it is quite special – together with the Riksrevision report suggests that it is now really urgent to put in place low-carbon zones in Norwegian cities. It's half a year until winter starts again, and we get the exact same problem in several Norwegian cities that we've now had years in and out, and that leads to people getting sick. That is why I hope that broad support in the Storting to the proposal from the Workers' Party, which is now under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, will be given to the adoption of a law on temporary low-emission zones based on a system of wafers. So this is an action that can be taken when the weather forecast indicates that there will be dangerous conditions. Then, by means of a modern and flexible oblating system, one will be able to steer car traffic away from the areas where it will cause direct health damage. We must be able to put this in place by the next winter, by November, and this is a direct call to the government to contribute to that happening. It will be quite embarrassing after a debate like the one we have now, if we experience the next winter the same as we have experienced this winter, once again. It will be a heavy responsibility to bear for the government. Several Norwegian cities say that they want a legal home for such zones, and this is probably the most practical and flexible form of low-carbon zones, because the alternative is to introduce more or less permanent, inflexible zones based on an assessment of where it can work best, even next winter to avoid the kind of pollution situations that we have now had, and we had a very serious situation in January this year. This matter is still topical, and the report from the National Auditorate could not have been more timely, so I would like to thank the National Auditor for having gone into this matter, and hopefully clarified it in a way that makes the measures come now. It is critical that so few of the concept selection studies in the transport sector have at all included good air quality requirements when these studies assess solutions against each other, despite the fact that all urban areas demonstrate that they have problems with local air pollution. That is why the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens agree that when transport policy has conflicting objectives and the overall target hierarchy is not defined, it is essential to include good air quality requirements in each project. Similarly, the socio-economic analyses of different transport solutions found by the National Audit Office find that the impact of improved or worsening air quality is rarely priced, and this is done in a transport policy with the overall objective of improving public health. In addition, the methods used for pricing make air quality very often unpriority, and this is a purely technical question of introducing parameters into models that allow you to get the result you want, and it is very difficult to see that the inertia of both the political and the professional systems towards getting something that has been so great that we are still in the situation we are in. But I am pleased that there are many parties that are now asking the Council of State – I would say both Councils, honour the Council of the Environment for him to set up – to ensure that the transport modes hereafter show the impact on local air quality of the measures they are investigating, and that the methods used today for pricing good air quality change, so that air quality for the citizens gets crucial – and I believe that, and I refer to the rapporteur’s reference to this – significance for the choice of transport solutions. I am particularly pleased that the majority, all parties other than the government parties, are gathered on a request that says clearly and clearly that the State Road Administration must accept the local authorities' orders for action when the municipalities are responsible as a pollution authority for investigating and implementing the necessary measures. This means that state agencies should no longer be able to prevent municipalities from implementing acceptable air quality measures, although they can, of course, provide advice and guidance on good measures. This is an important request, because sometimes there will be a direct conflict between the reasons for ensuring good air quality and ensuring the availability of private cars. Up to this point, the emergence has thwarted health. Here the Committee says that it is now the health of the citizens of the municipalities who will come first, and then we have to plan the transport policy accordingly. Finally, I would like to mention that there are two sections of the Committee's position where we in the Green Group would like to be left with the minority, but where, for practical reasons, we were not told whether or not this was the case before the vote was taken, and it is the first thing to clarify our support here and now with the comments from the Workers' Party, the Left and the SV that the government has spent an undue amount of time considering changing the national air quality objectives in line with the Public Health Institute's air quality criteria. This also applies to the more general comment of the Socialist Left and Left, which calls for better coordination of environmental policy and transport policy in the future, and of course we wholeheartedly support this, because broad objectives and unclear priorities between them are one of the fundamental issues in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2404	The review by the National Audit Office of the work on local air quality highlights a very important problem, namely the quality of the air we all breathe into the cities. Poor air quality can lead to severe health problems for the population and affect particularly vulnerable groups such as foetuses, children, the elderly and already ill. Although air quality has generally improved in Norwegian cities over the past decades, and although it varies from year to year and depends on meteorological conditions and the impact of instruments deployed, it is also such that we know progressively more about the adverse health effects of air pollution. Therefore, local air quality work is a high priority in the government, and we are in the process of following up the national audit report. And the broad consensus demonstrated in the good work of the Committee on this matter, as underlined by the rapporteur, shows that this is a matter of high priority across the political landscape. Firstly, the National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Climate and Environment should simplify the local air quality target structure. In the work on local air quality, it is operated, inter alia: with limit values and assessment thresholds in the Regulation, national targets and the Public Health Institute’s air quality criteria. I agree with the Riksrevision that this structure is complicated. The Directorate-General for the Environment, the Directorate-General for Road Transport, the Directorate-General for Health and the Institute for Public Health recommended in 2014 as well as the establishment of new long-term and health-based national targets based on the Public Health Institute’s air quality criteria. In line with this, the government increased the maximum levels for particulate matter with effect from January 2016. It would be natural for the government to assess the target structure more closely in the context of the work of the Stortingen request Decision 574 for 2014-2015 on sound limit values for particulate matter. Secondly, the Riksrevision recommends that the Ministry of Climate and Environment should ensure that the Environment Directorate strengthens its guidance and follow-up to municipalities as a pollution authority. Local pollution authorities, according to the pollution regulation, are the municipalities. Municipalities are responsible for compliance with the limit values and for carrying out adequate action investigations. The Directorate for the Environment, as the Riksrevision points out, has had close and good follow-up of municipalities since 2013. The Directorate for the Environment has developed several guides on action studies and a number of meetings have been held with the municipalities concerned. The Environment Directorate has also recently reviewed the up-to-date action studies carried out by municipalities and has given feedback to municipalities that there is still a need to improve them further. In addition, the Directorate for the Environment has recently started training of the county councillors with a view to monitoring local air quality in municipalities. The follow-up of the Directorate for the Environment, as the Riksrevision points out, is important, particularly as regards the preparation of action studies. I will therefore ensure that the Environment Directorate continues its good work in this area. In addition, the National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport go through the division of tasks and responsibilities between relevant sectors and levels of administration with a view to more efficient use of instruments and achieving objectives. The municipality is a significant site owner, planning and possessing local knowledge. This is one of the reasons why municipalities are now assigned the role of local pollution authority. However, the government is aware that the existing division of roles has led to certain challenges in the work of local air. The Directorate-General for the Environment will therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry, carry out an assessment of Chapter 7 of the pollution regulation on local air, including the distribution of powers and the sanctioning apparatus. The State has taken more steps to improve air quality in urban areas. The 2012 climate agreement set a new objective of taking the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Funds from the reward scheme are already an important contribution to achieving the goal of zero growth. In the longer term, future urban environmental agreements will be a key tool to ensure good target achievement through effective and coordinated use of instruments across administrative levels. In addition, we see promising technology developments in the transport sector. The development of battery technology makes electric vehicles both cheaper and more efficient. Routes have e.g. the introduction of fossil-free public transport targets in Oslo in 2020, where electric power will be an important component. We also see, for example: in Hordaland a major investment in environmentally friendly ferry operations, with as late as today a new Enova allocation to charge current. And new figures today from the Statistical Central Bureau show that for the first time since 2009, the sale of autodiesel was reduced in 2015. Furthermore, the Riksrevision recommends that the Ministry of Climate and Environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the State Road Administration, should make it clearer for municipalities what measures are available, practicable and what impact they will have on local air quality. Municipalities are local pollution authorities according to the pollution regulation, and it is therefore central that municipalities have a good understanding of the available instruments and their impact. The Directorate-General for the Environment has, among other things: develop an action guide for the municipalities that are electronically accessible and are updated in the light of new developments in this area. The Minister for Transport also presented a letter to the municipalities dated 22 December 2015 on available instruments. In addition, the Government is assessing several new instruments in this area, including: low-emission zones, environmental differentiation through the AutoPASS system, access to set environmental requirements for taxis and common rules for road charging. A major effort has also been made to develop and establish a national local air estimation tool. This could help to facilitate the work of municipalities, among others. power calculation of different measures. The National Audit Office's work and report and the Storting's work on the matter demonstrate that this is a serious issue. It demonstrates broad agreement on the need for progress, while not stifling the fact that there are target conflicts – policies are fundamentally concerned with the management of target conflicts. A recent example of this is the issue of rejecting ships from port, where it is clear that municipalities have the power to do so, but an assessment of the environmental impact must be made versus costs. Predictability of shipping is a very important consideration, because we want more heavy road-to-sea transport, and therefore this shows that there is not only a conflict of objectives between transport and environmental considerations, there may be target conflicts and a balance between different environmental considerations. So it is simply not in the individual case, but that the need is present, and that we take seriously both the Riksrevision report and the examination of it by the Monitoring Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2442	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contributions. The Council of State agreed on the seriousness of the situation, emphasised the broad consensus, said that it was important to deal with target conflicts, and I did not understand it any other way than that the target conflicts should be dealt with in the future in such a way that it is the legally binding limit values that must be complied with. And as the Council of State said, the government is taking the initiative to tighten the limit values, and that's in line with the committee's position. When I asked for the floor, it was in connection with the representative Skutle's comments about the charges and car use. We are so lucky – I would say so – in Norway that we have high charges for car use, because when we have the lucky situation, we can change the fees and thus achieve good results faster than countries with a lower level of charges. This is now widely recognised throughout the political scale in Norway. What happened in 2007 was that we received a fee conversion – which the representative Skutle had in mind – that led to diesel cars becoming more interesting, and we got an increased sale of them. It's because it's not just NOx that's a problem, but also CO2, and when we have the technical fact that diesel engines are more energy efficient than petrol engines, they get less emissions per unit of energy using diesel than using petrol, and then it becomes less CO2 emissions. At that time there was no very big debate in this room on that topic. There have been a lot of people who later expressed themselves about it and pointed out that this was wrong with regard to the city air, and I can agree to that. But at the time there was no big question, it was quite a pleasure that we were able to reduce CO2 emissions through those tax changes. So in the light of the afterclock one must also bring with it that every thing is marked by the attention that is at the moment it comes out. Otherwise, I would just like to stress that in the case of the urban air, it was wrong to prioritize CO2 so strongly, with the negative NOx consequences it received. Otherwise, it is now possible to differentiate this and to get both low NOx emissions and low CO2 emissions – with new engines, seagoing – but in the relationship between petrol and diesel, one with bombing around the big cities could have an environmental differentiation if we legally and technologically facilitate that one there may have a higher tax burden on diesel cars than on petrol cars, based on what we are talking about. As I also said, it is important that one by the bombings provides a legal opportunity to differentiate the environment between those who have high tyres and those who do not have high tyres. I expect that the Council of State, along with the Minister of Transport, will take it further, because it is important to have a much better system in that area. Finally, we've been talking about travel and more and more travels, and that's a fact, but we're now in the technological situation that we have an opportunity to take away the distance costs about completely by connecting households and workplaces with fiber technology. All those who have a theoretical work, where there is no physical handling of goods, can have their workplaces much closer to their home, which will result in much less transport. I also think that we need to develop an infrastructure in that area, be here, which could allow jobs and businesses to be distributed across the country in a much more decentralised way than we can do today – that is to say, that we introduce a digital all-man's rights and get an offer-driven expansion of it, where we get fiber for everyone. But it requires that there is a public company that stands for the expansion, that manages to finance this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2476	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Case No. 7–9 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2516	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2522	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2529	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Lise Christoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 8, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the review of government governance models in the public sector with the aim of eliminating time-consuming bureaucracy, reporting, control and detail management, and instead of allowing employees to use their professional judgement and trust their assessments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2555	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of tripartite cooperation with a view to increasing the degree of organisation of Norwegian working life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2569	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure the possibility of anonymous alerts, while clearly demonstrating the right to open and/or confidential alerts without retribution.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit legislative proposals to reinforce the protection against retaliation of alerts.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of legislative proposals requiring businesses of a certain size to introduce alert management procedures. The procedures should also be capable of adapting to smaller establishments.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals or to draw up regulatory changes specifying that there is no right to impose regulatory restrictions on freedom of expression and the right to notify, either in the private or public sector.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals clarifying that the alert rights cover all employees, both permanent employees, temporary employees and hired workers. In the case of lessees, a legislative proposal must clarify that the term ‘activity’ applies to all stages of a contract chain, regardless of the term in which the lessee is formally employed.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2608	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the creation of a separate alert agent or a separate alert unit at the Labour Inspectorate’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2637	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Green Party has also announced support for the vote. Then the President has reason to believe that the vote will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2667	During the debate, Per Olaf Lundtigen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the following amendment is made: the second paragraph of Section 14-12 is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2710	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 4, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a Commission to review all three obligations in the terms of supply, on the basis of their intention, and to return to Stortinget with a recommendation based on the Commission’s proposals in autumn 2016. The Commission shall make concrete recommendations to address climate resilience, climate and environmental efficiency, ecosystem-based and socio-economic good solutions that contribute to profitability in both fleet and industry, while contributing to coastal district settlement and employment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2736	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of a gradual and long-term transfer of allowances from trawl to coastal fleet, in order to reduce the share of allowances to trawl strongly.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals and to take the necessary steps to ensure the academic freedom of researchers in the institute sector, including the Institute for Marine Research.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2759	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for its own marine food industry programme in Innovation Norway to stimulate product and market development, automation and quality development.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2814	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2953	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2964	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e2986	Case No. 7–9 is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative acts. 49, 50, 51. There are no comments. Bill No. 49, 50 and 51 are thus approved for second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-05.ana.ud174e3029	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like.
