ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e26	From 10 May to 12 May, in order to participate in missions with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to Ankara and Istanbul, an application has been made for the permission of the representative of Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Lene Langemyr, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e41	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Mandt, Anette Trettebergstuen, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a strategy for increased bet on Norwegian television series.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e58	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e65	A week ago, the figures showed that Norway now has 135,000 unemployed, and that is the highest figure Statistical Central Bureau ever measured. The Labour Party has long asked the government to do more to combat the growing unemployment, see it as a national problem, and has stressed that we have this high unemployment in parts of the country, must be seen as a challenge for the whole country. It's a personal crisis for those who are affected, but it's also a national crisis when we have the highest figures ever measured. From the government we hear that this applies to some areas and some sectors. But it's important to go into these numbers and look behind them, because numbers and percentages don't have faces. There are people we're talking about, and what we're now seeing the contours of, should worry us. In the shadow of oil-related unemployment, we see increasing youth unemployment, young people who have not completed secondary education. These are not vacant engineers and skilled workers, these are young people who have never worked in the oil industry. Among young people under the age of 24 who have primary education as their highest level of education, there are now 17 pst. who are unemployed. That's 40 pst. more than at the same time last year. Among young adults between 20 and 29 years of age, the proportion not in work has increased by 8 percentage points since 2008. A total of 72 000 people under the age of 30 are neither at work nor under education. The acute increase in unemployment in the south and west is at the top of a growing inclusion challenge in Norwegian business and working life. The Prime Minister says that the government's economic policy now works strongly to combat unemployment. But I want to ask, when we see that 72 000 young people are neither at work nor under education, and we can expect that maybe 15 000-20,000 will fall out of higher education during this time, will Erna Solberg still describe the fight against unemployment among young people as successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e76	In my national meeting speech, I described the many different parts of the Norwegian economy that work to counteract increased unemployment: monetary policy, the responsibilities shown by employers and employees to keep moderate wage-fixing, but also the fiscal efforts made by the government through the budget. And as a conclusion to that review, I said that economic policy is powerful in combating unemployment. Since we dealt with the state budget, we have received many reports that show that economic development is worse than we anticipated in the last harvest of the national budget, that our growth is lower, and that the oil price has fallen further, then to rise in the last month. The figure that came last week showed that the proportion of the unemployed is about the same level as when the State budget was presented. This means that economic policy actually works, in the sense that when there is an even more difficult economic situation in Norway, the proportion of the unemployed does not increase. The fact that the Workers' Party chooses to take out a figure that has never been used before, which is not seasonally adjusted, and say that it is therefore increasing when the seasonally adjusted comparable AKU shows a decrease and not an increase in the proportion of the unemployed, is probably more because it fits the rhetoric of the Workers' Party. But that's 4.6 pst. in the AKU numbers, which is the seasonally adjusted vacancy – it was 4.6 pst. when we presented the budget. It's too high, it's too many people who are unemployed, but it's like, in a difficult situation, total economic policy does not increase the unemployment rate of the workforce. We should actually be a little happy about that, because that means that many of the decisions that this House has made are producing results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e85	This is a statistical pirate. 135000 — that is the highest number we have measured in Norway. Whether it's that percentage or that percentage, and what number it is, doesn't suggest that it's a big challenge. My question concerned one group of the unemployed, and I tried to get behind the numbers and look especially at the young. 135,000 are unemployed, 72 000 young people under 30 are neither at work nor under education, we have about 20,000 refugees who will be qualified and come to work. This job we can do if we solve it together and use some of the mechanisms Norway is actually good at. Then I would like to ask a specific question: I know from the Prime Minister that she sees that economic development has been less good than expected, and then there is something in the revised budget. LO and NHO have made good suggestions on how, through a payroll subsidy scheme, we can ensure that more people are given the opportunity to qualify for a job. Next Thursday, the government will have the opportunity to do something about the matter, and then I will ask: Will the government consider – and even implement – a stronger commitment to wage subsidies to qualify more people into Norwegian employment, especially young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e94	First, I'm concerned that we have too much youth unemployment. Too many people fall out of school. Over many years, there have been too many people who have not completed, falling out, and who become part of the chain that helps you fall out of the workforce over time. It's important to do something about it. This is why the government has, among other things, have been given the majority of the population on a duty of activity, which we shall focus in particular on young people, who will ensure that young people are not passive but come out actively and participate. That is why we also put measures for young people in the budget, and we are working on new measures. The Minister of Labour has also pointed out that she should make changes to the day-to-day pay legislation in order to help bring more young people back to life more quickly. In the case of wage subsidies, it is one of the measures that this government has already launched towards Stortinget that we are going to use more of. We have increased wage subsidies within the range of measures in recent years, and we will continue to do so. So the inclusion challenges are huge. It is important to bear in mind that in the context of the large increase in employment during the 2004–08 growth period, we were unable to include more disabled people. I think that's one of our major social challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e103	It opens for follow-up questions – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e106	We're busy with unemployment, and one of the places I've visited lately, was Haugesund last Monday. And if one then uses Nav numbers, which the prime minister obviously wants to use, gross unemployment is 6.5 pst. It has happened, exactly what we have warned against since the fall of 2013, that when we do not put in strong countermeasures to a growing unemployment, it spreads. Now it's the construction industry that really notices the increase in unemployment. In Haugesund, they are puzzled that the government's package of measures was gone, because a few kroner were proposed to the municipalities. We proposed it in our budget. It is now quite clear that the municipalities have projects that can be implemented, and there are people who have nothing to do. Therefore, my question is: When unemployed people want to do something, and when municipalities have things that should have been done – why won't the Prime Minister help them to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e113	The action package did not disappear. We still have a package of measures with a main angle towards the South and the West. The important thing is that I have gone through the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and then I have looked at how many measures directly related to the South and Western countries they have that can be identified – those that have then called our package of measures for cursing. Ten million. kr to Sørlandslaben is what they have more. Is that what is going to solve the unemployment question? The rest are general schemes that we have argued for have a positive effect, but as they say, there is a bluff towards the South and the West. But ten million. kr to a laboratory in the South that needs 200 million. kr, and where the government has already given four times as much as the Workers' Party proposes – is that what solves the unemployment problems? There is a lot of rhetoric from the Workers' Party, and little of what we can identify as action through the budget. We are very concerned that we should do more on maintenance. That's why we've done a lot of maintenance in the budget that is, and we're working on plans for how to strengthen this further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e120	Astrid Aarhus Byrknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e123	There is no doubt that we are in a very demanding time in all of the South West, and we see that the number of young people in general who are unemployed is alarmingly rising. For those who are in the middle of this, it's a crisis. Young people are hard times, many lose their apprenticeship, and some wonder if they have an apprenticeship in the fall. All approved apprentices, whether they're public or private, now need to bet on apprentices like never before. It's important that the public also do their job, and then the Christian People's Party believes that the apprentice's initiative needs to be increased to help more young people with professional careers into working life, and that's a win-win situation. Together with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, we've gotten an increase before, but now we're going to have to take more and more steps. My question is: will the government propose an additional increase in the apprentice contribution in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e131	With respect for the Storting: I am not going to answer questions this week about what we are presenting in the revised national budget next week. That's not the tradition either. We're very concerned about the apprenticeship situation. We are particularly concerned with the apprentices who are now losing apprenticeships, who are being outsourced, and other. We're looking at measures to do something about it. I can say that we come back to the arrangements related to this. The important question is to raise the volume of apprenticeship places in general. Then there are two important steps the government has taken. One is that in the public sector, we've been very clear that we're going to have apprentices. We have given a very clear message to all parts of the public sector that they must hire apprentices to ensure that the state takes part in it. The second is that we have said that we should make it a requirement when submitting a public tender. This will mean that everyone who is to submit a tender to the public sector must have an apprentice where it is natural to have an apprentice. This probably means a significant requirement, which many enterprises have to follow up in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e140	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e143	Now it's important to create new jobs. But it's equally important to secure the industry we have. The food industry is Norway's largest mainland industry, it recruits widely, and many young people get their debut in the labour market in this industry. Two important processes are now in progress concerning this industry, namely the agricultural settlement and negotiations with the EU on trade in agricultural products. In the past, the Right Party and the Advance Party have shown little willingness to stand up for Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs in that process. My question is: When one knows that one needs these jobs and this industry, and with the situation in the labour market in Norway today – can the Prime Minister guarantee that the government actually stands up for Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs also in the negotiations with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e150	The Government has negotiated a new EEA financing agreement. And we have side-negotiated a market access agreement related to fish, which has just been justified in our strong commitment to securing jobs in Norway. It is completely wrong when the representative says that we have not stood up for Norwegian jobs. On the contrary, we are working to ensure that we have more Norwegian jobs and the possibility of lower customs duties and greater access, which help to strengthen business in Norway. Then there will be the agricultural negotiations. The offer from the state is coming today. We are committed to achieving the important objectives that we set ourselves in the previous period in the United Kingdom, namely to increase agricultural production in Norway. That means that we also have to make sure that we contribute most to the farmers who can actually increase agricultural production. If we are to achieve the overall objectives, which I believe the Centre Party is also concerned – i.e. more agricultural production in Norway – we must ensure that we reach those who can increase the volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e157	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e160	A major distinction in society is between those who have completed secondary education and those who do not. This is often what determines the possibility of having both legs safely planted in the workplace, rather than having a very loose relationship with the world of work. We know that 60 pst. of those who fall out of secondary education, there is no action whatsoever – 60 pst. And we know that youth unemployment is increasing. The Prime Minister refers to social clients meeting with an activity obligation. I would like to point out that it is a problem that young people are in practice without the right to activity. I wonder why in the world the government doesn't do more for young people who have fallen out of high school, and young people who are now out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e165	We're working to ensure that fewer people fall out of high school, and we're working on securing them action when they're out of high school. In the budget, we have, among other things: actions aimed at youth and youth unemployment to ensure that they enter into activity and meet. I don't believe anyone's motives, but there have been guarantees for young people, from the previous government, among other things, with a strong SV initiative behind, which, when the Riksrevision went through them, turned out not to work. Then we have to look for the measures that actually work, that reach the youth. And one of the most important things to prevent falling out of school is actually to make sure that we have good basic knowledge in school. The reason why many fall out is because of other social problems. Therefore, we strengthen the health services related to the school. The second thing we do is to strengthen our professionalism in school. This helps to raise knowledge, which causes fewer people to fall out because they don't have enough knowledge to cope with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e172	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e175	The Christian People's Party will continue to focus on the biggest social problem we now have, which is unemployment. It means something to the individual, it means something to the quality of life, it means something to the community, it means something to the families affected, and to the kids who hear that mom and dad talk about this, and it means something to society, because we can't really use the resources we have. It is serious that unemployment is as high as 4.6 pst. Employment has fallen most in the oil industry, but also in the industry around it. Many companies report that they still have cutting needs, and many single families live up to this threat every day. Traditional industry has benefited from a low price of krone, but although business seems to be doing well some places, it is part of the country that is not doing so well, and where the unemployment is hitting extra hard, and that is the South-West. The reason for this is significant reductions in the oil industry, which is one of the main key jobs in the region. The housing structure goes down because the unemployment rate is rising. If we do not put in place dedicated measures to combat unemployment in the South of the West, it will become firm, and we will later need more action to be taken. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the government come with immediate action dedicated to the South-West, and not least to the young, in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e184	First of all, I would like to stress that I share the full description of the representative Bollestad. There is a dramatic situation in the West and South at the moment, and especially in some regions. It's dramatic for those who experience it, but it's dramatic far beyond it. All of us who come from there know that this affects much wider than just those that are directly affected. If you have a family working in the oil industry, you can see that all of these cuts are toiling on those who experience this directly – and far beyond it. Then we have a package of measures, where we have exceptional employment measures in the form of maintenance and activities, which are now being rolled out. A number of companies in the South-West have been commissioned. Some large national companies are also commissioned, but they also have employees from the same region. In addition, we see that many of the funds made available for the longer-term transition in research and development are being applied for even more from businesses in this area. For example, from the Demo2020 allocations, there are a lot of companies, not least in the oil and gas industry, that have wanted more, because they now see that they need to change and find new technology and that they can keep resources with this. That's why it's good that we've jointly increased just this kind of money. With regard to the revised national budget, we have to wait until we present it, but we are very concerned about this situation. Fortunately, there are also some points of light. When the employment statistics and the Nav survey related to employers were published this week, it turned out that there was a slightly higher degree of optimism for new employment. We see in the figures that employment continues to increase in Norway, but we do not produce enough new jobs for the number of people coming out of work. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e193	I thank you for your answer. The Christian People's Party agrees with a long-term transition. At the same time, we are committed to immediate action for those with challenges right here and now – measures that do not necessarily prevent the long-term transition we are talking about, and that we can reverse as soon as we see that more people are actually getting into work. Exceptional maintenance, upgrading of buildings, infrastructure in municipalities, etc. something KS has notified the Size can be done in the short term. It can actually help the individual in the short term, and it can be stopped if you see that unemployment is falling again. The Christian People's Party wants to prioritise this in the revised national budget. We want to spend 1 billion. in addition to apprenticeship grants to increase the working capacity of young people. How does the Prime Minister put himself at the forefront of short-term action while we have long-term action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e201	In the budget we have this year, and in the agreement we have with the cooperation parties on the Stortinget, we prioritised conversion, activity and work. We gave priority to implementing measures of the kind that Bollestad is now calling for and wants more. That is a direction the government agrees with. We have to raise our activity for the time being to make sure that more people experience being at work and not outside, but at the same time we have to cope with the long-term transition that gives us companies that are healthy and that can have safe jobs for the future. So it sounds like it's going to be easy to agree with the Christian People's Party on the revised national budget this year, and I'm glad to see that we are now rolling out a lot of the measures that we promised in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e208	There will be follow-up questions – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e211	I see that the Prime Minister is becoming more and more stated that in the opposition, we cannot just settle down with the government's speech points that this is a budget for work, activity and conversion. But as long as unemployment continues to rise and stagger in spreading to other industries, as long as oil money consumption increases and the differences between people increase, the Labour Party cannot tacitly accept the policies that are now being pursued. Kristiansund is one of the toughest cities on the coast, with higher unemployment rates than Stavanger, and is now experiencing the nearest loss of jobs. When the unemployed in Kristiansund turn to the government and seek political help, they see the following: The so-called Western Action Package never went off. Regional tools are cut down to the bone, and billions in tax cuts did not create new jobs. Then it's tempting to ask: does the government really have anything to offer the unemployed along the coast, except for a friendly pat on the shoulders and some tired words from the prime minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e218	It is absolutely right that the situation in Kristiansund is difficult. It is Kristiansund, Haugesund, Stavanger and the Kristiansand area that have the highest levels of unemployment. That means we have a special focus on those areas. We'll get back to that. I have to say that this attempt to say that the package of measures was a bluff, which I have heard from some of the Workers' Party say, or that it does not exist, must be extremely provocative for those who work in Dalane Hageservice, in Åsane Construction Master's Store, in Vassbakk & Stol AS, in OBAS West, or for those who work in Bergen Group, all those who are actually working now because we have a package of measures. I have a long list of jobs that exist today, jobs that are not a bluff, jobs that are completely real. Families receive their income. That the Workers' Party says that this does not exist or is a bluff, I find quite insulting to those who actually go and pick up their wages because we have created a government budget that contributes to activity – especially because the Workers' Party does not have any other activity itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e225	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e228	The third major round of cuts starts these days in the oil supply industry in South Africa. For example, in National Oilwell in Kristiansand, the number of employees will range from 5,000 in 2015 to under 2000 now. These are dramatic numbers, and many are strongly affected by the crisis. In 2015, Innovation Norway allocated non-competitive means of conversion to the clusters of Kongsberg, Raufoss and Halden. The South did not receive support for this type of action from Innovation Norway, despite the government’s emphasis on the need for migration in the region. Nor are there any means of conversion to business networks for 2016 in Innovation Norway. These would be instruments that could contribute to the pooling of companies on important efficiency and competence building measures, with a view to increasing competitiveness and competence in new markets. How will the government contribute to maintaining and putting into service the skills and technologies of South Africa in new markets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e235	There are different types of measures and instruments. Among the measures taken by this government was Demo2020. National Oilwell's got $15 million. kr of it, which contributes to the precisely the transformation to further develop its technology associated with this. We have increased all the mechanisms related to innovation, innovation and others for which it is possible to apply for different types of action. I can't say exactly when it comes to networking, but we have a lot of money. The government has increased its business-oriented research and innovation activities by over 2.4 billion. kr since accession. Some of the conversion measures are carried out, among others: the failure to become the Global Centres of Expertise at the time of publication because they did not meet those requirements, and the Norwegian Centres of Expertise, with some of the instruments, continued for a transitional period. But we are very closely following where this is, and we are looking in particular at developments related to those places where there is the highest unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e242	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e245	When members of the government are in the South and West, one of the most important points is talking about investment in transport. One boasts uninhibited, but it is not possible to find this again in the state budget. For if one looks at railway investments, they in the adopted state budget for 2016 are actually lower than what they were in the last budget provided by the previous government. When you look at national road investment, one is miles behind the national transport plan adopted by the Stortinget. The government itself writes that national road investment is primarily under the economic planning framework of the national transport plan, so here it is a big word without the reality remaining in investment budgets. My question to the Prime Minister is: what will a person do to increase investment in transport, not just talk about investments in transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e250	We have made a significant increase in investment in transport. That's almost 50 pst. increase in investments during this period in relation to what it was in the previous period, so it is a little obvious, this argument from the Centre Party. One of the challenges facing the railway budget is that it takes a long time to plan the major projects. In 2012, there were almost no planning agents. It gives an effect, because the only really big project going on is the tunnel to Ski, and so it takes longer to finish the others. That's why we're turning money into maintenance on the railway side, because we were going to spend more money on it. Therefore, there is also more money for the South and West, because it is primarily through maintenance money for the Railway and maintenance money for the Vosebane that we have put in place exceptional measures and contribute to increased activity. But it is not planned to be completed by the previous government in terms of major projects in the South and West linked to the railway. We increase it through the maintenance activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e257	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e261	The crisis in the West means a crisis for Norway. There are highly competent people who are now or become unemployed in the west. It's professionals, engineers, who are world-class in their fields. The Westerner, and perhaps the special coastal westerner, is also a people who almost genetically see opportunities and business potential where many others had reported passports for the longest time. So the thresholds for creating new jobs are very low. I'm totally in agreement with the Prime Minister, and I want to pay tribute to the fact that the government has no doubt helped to mitigate the worst side effects of the crisis. The left does not stand in the choir that criticises; on the other hand, we have launched our own package of measures of 4.5 billion. kr, where the key is to lower innovation thresholds for existing companies and new companies and to actively use market forces to create markets for green technologies. I expect the Prime Minister to have studied this package of measures to the Left carefully and can now confirm that she will ensure that she proactively and closely cooperates with the Left to ensure that this is implemented. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e266	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e269	I think there are many interesting suggestions from the Left. Some of them follow what we have already agreed on, and the direction we have taken in several budgetary agreements here in the United Kingdom, and some measures are completely new. The raising of innovation and innovation is important, and ensuring that we move towards a greener society – a low-carbon society, which is our common objective to achieve – is necessary. But money is needed for this, there is a need for a framework for this, and it also needs – I want to stress that today – the ability to attract private capital through what our tax system will look like in the future. It is good if we now have a tax agreement in port, but it is also important to say that private ownership is incredibly important for the companies that are growing. But we are studying all the proposals, we are preparing for negotiations in Stortinget, and we are preparing for our own submissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e276	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e279	In NRK's Political Quarter on Monday, Finance Minister Siv Jensen said: ‘That’s why we spend the large amount of money on combating unemployment, as well as making provision for lower taxes, so that we can get better investments.’ It's a glan number from this government to claim that the big money goes to things other than what the big money actually goes to. Stavanger Aftenblad has revealed that not only the package of measures is much smaller than the tax cuts, it is also about approx. half of the money in the action package going to the South and Western countries. In addition, the government keeps repeating that the money goes to something other than tax cuts, despite the fact that we can read in the government's own budgets that the government has cut income tax and property tax by 15.4 billion. kr and spend almost four times more on tax cuts than they use – in doubt, I would say – for their package of measures. Shall we now hear the Prime Minister say what we can all read: that this government spends much more money on tax cuts than on measures against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e291	14 pst. of the space that this government has so far had, we have used to create a better, fairer and more investment-friendly tax system for the future. 86 pst. we have spent on public expenditure in various areas – a powerful strengthening of the local economy, a lot of investment in infrastructure, improvements in the hospital economy that means that we are treating more and more people in hospitals and cutters in the waiting lists, just as the Right promised in the election campaign that we should do. You can repeat from the opposition as many times as you want, that the maximum amount you spend is at tax relief. Then the answer is back: if you were to reverse all the tax cuts, how do you think it would work for the entrepreneurs that are going into the green economy? How would it work for those jobs that depend on someone willing to invest? Fortunately, we still have increasing employment in Norway, although the proportion of people employed still falls slightly, as it did in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e298	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e301	Many municipalities are discussing community reform. Sometimes they say yes, sometimes they say no. Many people have a referendum, and elsewhere they have a population survey. In other words, we are in the middle of an important local democratic process. In an answer to me in the Question Time on 16 March, the Prime Minister said: ‘We are based on the reform that has been addressed in the Stortinget. It shall have a voluntary basis.’» She stressed in the same question hour that she has great respect for referendums, great respect for the people and for local elected representatives. With the curvatures made by the government in the income system for municipalities, you can wonder how voluntary reform feels too many. As many as seven out of ten rapporteurs say to the NRK that they feel pressured in the merger debate. Nevertheless, one continues to say that this should be voluntary. Then we feel that a so-called process supervisor from the County of West Agder is going to be with the Right-Rapporteur in Lindesnes to try to persuade the majority of the local government who will respect the referendum, to nevertheless not respect the referendum and change their mind. And in Buskerud, the County now presents its own municipal maps that remove two thirds of the municipalities in the county, long before the local processes are completed. With the respect that the Prime Minister says she has for local elected representatives, I guess she's reacting strongly to it. Is it still the government's objective that this should be a voluntary reform? And how will the Prime Minister ensure that government officials do not override local democracy and the local processes we are in the middle of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e319	This is a voluntary reform, but everyone has to endure hearing arguments about why we need to change, including from government representatives. You have to be able to stand in the debate for the choices you make locally. For example, in the case of the income system, what is proposed — and now there is agreement with the Left on a system of changes — is that what is actually chosen should have a consequence, not for all the other municipalities, but for each municipality. When you choose to be a small municipality based on a democratic process, you shouldn't be able to compensate for that choice, because it's a choice you've made yourself. That, I think, is a quite logical principle for an income system that is initially designed not to be the political choices you make, but actually real inequalities to be compensated for, in order to provide the same basis for creating good welfare services for everyone around the country. It's a logic that I thought should really be clear if you think that a resident in e.g. Rack Town and a population of Ålesund must have the same basis for well-being, that it is the political choices that determine it. That's why I think it's important to have an income system that doesn't reward different political choices, but that's actually based on objective criteria. That was the basis of that income system originally, and then we have had some measures within what has not been like that. This has to be one of the consequences you have to be able to take with you. But I think, then, that the state must be allowed to think about how well-being services are being optimised, without that mean taking away the duties and wishes and local democracy of the local people. To hear that the elections can have consequences and that better services could be provided with other solutions, I think it is quite logical in a public democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e328	The central party believes that local democracy should be allowed to decide this. We believe that everyone must be allowed to argue for their vision, but it is not to argue the County Council in Buskerud does. She is so zealous in her service that long before the local processes are completed, she draws a map of the municipalities in Buskerud where she removes two thirds of the municipalities. It is not in line with the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left adopted last spring, which states that the statesmen shall make their recommendation «after» the municipalities have made their decisions. It is difficult to see this as anything but an improper attempt by state bureaucrats to override local democratic processes. The reports of the staff shall be based on the decisions taken locally. It makes no sense for them to submit a report before the local decisions are taken. Is it the case that the Right Party and the Advance Party have now become so afraid of the outcome of the local processes that they intend to use their officials in the counties for the pure extortion of local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e335	No, I'm not so afraid of the outcome of this process. And I actually think better about municipal politicians than they can't bear to hear that a county councilman – maybe a little too early – has put forward a proposal, and that it's part of the discussion base. So sarte are not Norwegian municipal politicians. They're adults, who are able to argue for their own business. What's more interesting is that the Central Party really always argues against any part of the debate to be disclosed, any change that has been made, so that it affects the elections. There are elections on behalf of the weakest municipalities now, there are elections on behalf of the service provider. Then it's incredibly important that you have an open discussion. The county officials must then also be allowed to say how they think they would get the best possible service offer in their counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e345	There will be follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e348	The Prime Minister does not get away with the fact that the County is preparing a report here until they know what the local decisions on which they are going to build the report look like. That's kind of weird. Now we are in the middle of the local processes, which the Prime Minister has said she has respect for. In fact, they must be respected. I can see no other reason for such an attempt to override than that one is afraid that the local processes will not get what you want, and that one is trying to scare the local politicians in place. It's not voluntary; it's not good local processes – it's an attack on local democracy. The County Governor of Buskerud is the state's top official in the county, she's the government's representative. From her side, 6 major municipalities were proposed in Buskerud to replace today's 21. It is a proposal for confusion similar to the map proposed by the NHO for Buskerud. Does the Prime Minister agree with the NHO and his official that six municipalities are enough in Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e355	If I had answered that question, I could be attacked to put undue pressure on the municipalities in Buskerud, which are now going to make their own choices. I have said no to answer any questions about municipality maps in Norway, precisely because we should have respect for it. Then the Central Party should respect the fact that I am not going to answer a question about which municipal map to be in Buskerud, until the local process is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e362	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e365	A few weeks ago, government parties and the Left presented an agreement on changes in the municipal income system. One of the points of agreement is that municipalities should be halved for their basic grant to be stimulated for community mergers, and one of the consequences of this agreement is that municipalities with between 10 000 and 20 000 inhabitants lose income and are the group of municipalities most affected. That is the size that the government's own expert committee thought should be the minimum size of Norwegian municipalities. At the same time, the government and the Left will introduce a new grant to municipalities that merge and receive more than 10,000 inhabitants. Can the Prime Minister explain the logic that municipalities that become large enough should be premiered, while municipalities that are already large enough should be penalised financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e372	We make changes to the income system of municipalities at regular intervals. The main purpose of the change we are making now is to make sure that what you make, whether you are big or small, is not affected by the income and income system as it is. Today, the less you are, the more income you get. It seems like it's becoming a bigger municipality. Then, overall, in the local economy, there will always be how much money we put at our disposal, which determines how good service provision there is. Moreover, I believe that we should have an income system that is least politically controlled, and as much as possible guided by objective criteria, and there are some of the last policy-driven areas that are now gradually changing to become more based on objective criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e377	Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e380	One of the documents that takes the lead in the municipal reform is the task message, and we could read that the dental service is to be transferred to the municipalities. However, through the political negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party, the aid agency was changed to move the «should» to the municipalities. This has led to some anxiety. This is a powerful professional environment. The dental service has been developed with considerable competence at regional level since 1985, so it is a good service provision today, and today it is in the county municipalities. Then came the regional message, and there we can read on page 25 that larger municipalities can be given responsibility for dental health, so that there has been a development in helpful verbs from «shall» to «breed», but today it is reduced to «can», and that delights us in the Christian People's Party. But what does the Prime Minister think? Can the dental service now continue as a regionally organised service, where one does not move tasks from the county and down to the municipalities when the regional reform goes counter-clockwise? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e389	Time's up. In addition, this is on the side of the main issue thematically, but the Prime Minister may choose if she will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e392	I have to answer in general. I believe it is important to remember who the public dental service is for. It exists for those under 18 years of age, and it exists for users in the care of the elderly and institutions that are the responsibility of the public. All of these groups are really within municipal responsibility. This means that there is a quite natural place in the municipalities of dental care. So I know that it's always like that when it comes to change, that the groups that are there, don't want it. Actually, the Dental Association wanted them to become stately and to move completely away. I think that's wrong. I think a get smaller connection locally, and I think it is fully possible for municipalities to create good cooperation solutions between municipalities to ensure municipal ownership to find these solutions. But we're going to discuss the task message at regional level, and then we're going to discuss this question. I think you'll find new solutions that give more proximity to dental services in municipalities, when the user groups that are going to have this dental service are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e397	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e401	It's a bit of a strange debate when it's that if you have a system where those who are self-elected are premiered, then it's democratic, but if the election has any consequences, it's undemocratic, and when it's very important to stop anyone who has a different opinion than yourself, to participate in the public debate, at least when it comes also from the parties that are most eager to send big ones out to the different regions to tell them what they should be against. What worries me is that anyone who doesn't think this is a relevant issue for them, who doesn't participate in the referendums, and who doesn't think politicians actually manage to solve the challenges you see as relevant. My question to the Prime Minister is how we are going to manage to get these processes to also initiate all those who are passively associated with them and who do not think municipal boundaries are relevant to the service they actually receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e408	I believe that this is entirely relevant. There has been a very low upturn in some of these referendums, which is worrying about how to actually interpret it. Does it mean that you don't care, does it mean that you think it's okay with a community merger, or are you just mobilizing those who may be opposed? What worries me, too, is that the discussion about who the municipality is most important to is so small. The municipality means most to the weak groups. The municipality means most to those who need a lot of help and care. That discussion is quite small. It's very much about geography, the location of town halls and other things. It's clear that a lot of people are almost not in a town hall anymore, it doesn't matter that much anymore. But mobilising for a larger debate means that we need more actors to participate in. Then it may be that a county that is a little rowdy helps provoke more people into the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e415	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e418	The Paris Agreement was concluded in December last year, and we are soon through the first half of the year when we are to measure how we follow up the agreement and our obligations – that is also true of Norway. It is right and important that, compared with the previous period, a civil majority on the Stortinget exercise a significantly more ambitious climate policy. We are strengthening research and various support schemes, whether they be environmental technology schemes, it is Enova, it is strengthening the railways, or it is improving collective action – and we are in favour of taking State pension funds abroad out of coal. There are tax conversions that make biogas and biofuels more competitive, and environmental authorities are delegated. Yesterday, issues concerning environmental zones were delegated to the municipalities. Nevertheless, if there is one area where we really need a more clear policy, it is in climate policy, where we need a much clearer management and systematic work, not least for business, so that we know what to do with the transformation and transformation we need in the years to come when we are going to achieve our goal of reducing our emissions by 40 pst. together with the EU towards 2030. It is then that all matters coming from the government must be linked and have the same objective, whether it be the national transport plan, the state budgets or, last but not least, the energy message, because this is not the case today. The Energy Communication is very clear on what the EU's objectives are, but not on how to achieve our own objectives. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister agree with the description, and what will the Prime Minister do to ensure that all issues presented by the government relate to the climate goal in 2030? And can she tell how these are to be reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e429	I agree that it is important that the issues we have in the major areas in the future, and the long-term perspective messages must include the climate dimension – and have it integrated. I disagree a little about the energy message, I'm going to get back to it, but I think there are two different areas – of course. We have a quota system, and large parts of the Norwegian economy and large parts of Norwegian business are within that quota system. That means that we have chosen a framework system in which I believe the main task must be what we are already doing: providing more innovation, more innovation and less emissions by lifting new technologies and new jobs using that technology. I think it's a major act related to it, and that means what we're saying, for example. do within green shipping – which is both a little inside and a little outside. That means we have to use the principal instruments associated with it. On the non-quota side, the transport sector is the absolute largest – in addition to the other, which is the agricultural sector. In both of these areas, over the next year, the Storing will receive clear roadmap messages. One is the National Transport Plan, where we asked all the agencies to base these targets, so that we could have a plan and a menu in order to put the policy together in the future. The second is the agricultural area, where the Storting has asked for an agricultural message, and where we also believe that we should deal with and talk about environmental challenges and how to do so in relation to agriculture. There are many dilemmas in the relationship between imports and own emissions, as is known from many other discussions. I believe that the Energy Communication is taking us a step towards those climate goals. When we change the mandate of Enova – which is our absolute biggest energy-related instrument and to be more climate-oriented and focus on climate emissions as part – it is a powerful instrument in the future for energy policy and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e438	I thank you for the answer, also for the last clarification about Enova, because that is a very good example that the energy message is not good enough. Yes, it changes the mandate in relation to what they want to achieve, but it has no clear objectives or what objectives Enova will have to work to achieve this. What are our objectives in the transport sector? How much cut are we going to have? When do passenger car transport and vehicle sales only have to be a zero-emission vehicle? How are we going to achieve the targets of fossil-free heavy transport by 2030? All of this must be done according to the Environment Directorate in order to achieve the 2030 targets. Therefore, what we need is much clearer goals from which they can pursue their policies. Today, environmental policy and climate policy are too much the result of the struggle of different forces, and then we get results. The left is very much in favour of pushing forward the policy, but we are not in line with the 2020 target of getting down to 47 million. tonnes of emissions in 2020. That's the climate agreement. What will the Prime Minister do to make concrete work on concrete actions both towards 2030 and not least towards 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e443	I understand we're going to have an exciting discussion about how much we're going to put into practice under Enova's objectives. It's possible that there's room to concrete more than that in our big message. At the same time, I would say that some of the favorable things that have been with Enova are that they have had flexibility to see where they get the most effect out of everything. If you control Enova too much, the challenge will come back by maybe we'll end up not having money for what's most important, because they've spent the money on something else. So there's a balance in this. We've given Enova a lot of freedom in energy saving to find the most efficient and innovative, and then there's a balance between how many goals, how much detail management and making sure we spend the money where the technology goes the fastest. We know that sometimes things can go faster in some areas than in others, and then we have to have flexibility in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e448	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e451	There is a danger that I have asked this question before. That is why the Prime Minister is probably well prepared and can answer yes or no. The State Budgetary Authority, with the Left for 2016, notes the following: ‘The government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2017 to propose a green tax shift as part of the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission’s suspension. Such a shift shall involve an increase in CO2 emissions taxes, equivalent to a sectoral reduction in other taxes and taxes. The charging and tax conversion shall be of a magnitude that enhances climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate emissions.’;» So my question is: is the Prime Minister ready to present a budget in which the tax and tax conversion is to be of a size that strengthens the climate agreement and provides a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e464	Yeah, and we're working on that between the four games. The budget is not finished yet, it is not finished by the government until the end of August, at least not publicly. But we're going to take seriously the relationship we have with the Left, we're going to deliver on it. Then it is important to think that there are more sectors than one sector within this. As I mentioned, it is e.g. some of the dilemmas of agricultural policy and of how we get smarter and less emissions into agricultural policy, which are also important issues. Then it is important that this is sectorial and that we should also compensate sectorially. It is going to be a challenge to find targeted, good action on and compensate for any changes in the same sector. But we are working on that, and we are taking seriously the commitment we have signed in connection with the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e469	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e473	We can discuss how much, for example. The energy communication will mean for climate policy in Norway. I believe at least that what has been presented by the government is relatively immaterial when you think about climate from the energy message. On 12 April, the State Council of Helgesen made a statement on the Paris Agreement in Stortinget. That's an important agreement, I think we agree very much on that. Action is urgent, and there is no doubt that you will have to make very clear, concrete actions in the future, precisely to achieve the objectives and commitments that we are required to achieve. But in the 2011 climate agreement, all the conciliators agreed that if there was an ambitious, binding agreement in the climate field internationally, Norway would go ahead and show that we would assume a responsibility to be carbon-neutral in 2030. Does the Prime Minister agree that carbon neutrality from 2030 is now a commitment Norway should assume as a result of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e482	It's an ambitious deal. It's not global, as we thought it would be in the negotiations we had in 2011 – and I remember being part of those negotiations, so I know what we discussed. It's not global, because it's not a global framework, it's national, registered priorities. That means that we don't have systems today to exchange, which is good enough to say that we can promise climate neutrality in 2030, because then we need to know how to account for any investment in other countries as well. For Norway as such, we will not be climate neutral on our own domestic territory until 2030. That means that the mechanisms we need in other countries are not ready yet. Therefore, I would not dare – if I were not to shut down the entire Norwegian oil and gas industry from the ground up already today – to say that we can be climate-neutral in 2030. Our ambition is that we should be able to do it, but then we need international mechanisms that can account for this, and we're actually not there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e487	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e490	Green Innovation is part of the solution to the climate issue. We are now in a situation where many highly qualified people in the oil industry become unemployed. Many re-school from an engineer to an engineer, for example. teachers, and of course it is positive for the school, but engineering competence is largely the same as it is needed to develop new renewable energy sources such as offshore wind, wave power and tidal power – and solutions we do not know today, but perhaps just see the contours of. Does the Prime Minister think that Norway is offensive enough when it comes to using the available brain power and developing alternative solutions for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e497	This government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has promised the Green Climate Fund significantly, even far beyond the climate agreement provided for, in line with what we were actually promised to do. This means that we have more money available for this kind of technology development action. With the changes in Enova’s mandate now, more of this money will be directed towards it. We have strengthened all the innovation measures, and we are implementing a tax reform. I just want to stress that all of this is related. Because if you're really going to develop new technology, if you're going to create new technology, someone has to invest in those companies. It is necessary to ensure that they have growth potential and create jobs. In addition, we have targeted measures, such as: Demo 2020, for which we increased the appropriations, and for which we see that many of these companies are now turning towards getting more money from, because they see that they can use their technology, either to be more efficient and more environmentally friendly in their own oil production or in new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e504	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e507	Oslo and Akershus have, on orders from Stortinget, jointly established a regional plan for land and transport. The plan is a significant contribution to follow-up to the commitments in the Paris Agreement because they establish 50 pst. climate-cut by 2030. The State is obliged to comply with the plan and is therefore also obliged to ensure that all its transport projects are in line with the new climate objectives. In concrete terms, it is expected that any continuation of projects will be justified. However, the state plans to expand the E18 West Corridor even if the trade unions conclude that it is socio-economically very unprofitable and even if it does not contribute to car reduction. The majority in Akershus decided to limit the project after the elections. Similarly, a broad majority in Oslo, including the Prime Minister's own party, has done the same. Nevertheless, the Swedish Road Administration met yesterday and said that they are unable to scale down the project. Is it because they're instructed by the government to do this, or because they're not able to follow up the overall spatial plan that Oslo and Akershus have adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e516	The government has ensured that we get better planning action in the future that sees residential areas and the development of infrastructure in the context. I'm glad that SV also thinks it's fine. We do that because we want a balanced development of our cities and ensure that we have good solutions for both public transport, infrastructure and housing, which are seen in the context. We haven't instructed anyone about the size or evolution of the E18. We're very concerned about the pace of what's going to be the funding package for Fornebubanen. The changes that have occurred in the Oslo City Council, and the time it now takes to find solutions, are probably shifting the project at the moment. I think that's very sad. The state has been clear. We've gone into areas we haven't done it before, we've been involved in planning, we've been involved in financing, we're clearly involved in participating. Now it is important to find common solutions, and I think this is among the most important projects, for which I am now very concerned. We will follow up on Oslo and Akershus’ common solutions for E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e525	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e528	Both the abandoned City Council in Oslo and the City Council have expressed high ambitions to realize carbon capture and storage at the waste facility on Klemetsrud. The government has decided to have carbon capture and storage in place in at least one plant by 2020 – if the Norwegian climate targets that were at the time were to be achieved. To achieve the objectives we necessarily face under the Paris Agreement, several major Norwegian emission sources need to get carbon capture and storage very quickly. But the Klemetsrud plant in Oslo is completely dependent on state funding, and the question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister set to contribute to the financing of an installation that her own party in Oslo also wants, so that carbon capture and storage can be realised at the Klemetsrud plant by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e535	It's an exciting project. The review of how to implement CCS is now under way. I can't short-circuit the process of saying that that and that project should be the right thing to do. But the government still has an ambition to implement CCS projects. Then we have to be careful that we do not do the same thing as the big defeat associated with Mongstad, that is, that you had invested so much on the state side that you got a contract that didn't keep reductions in costs up at all. That's why we have chosen a process where we don't choose the projects until we actually have the analysis and know how the instruments should be in the future, but it works with the Ministry of Oil and Energy. But it's an exciting project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e545	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e548	The whole Storting is behind the intention to combat the ISIL terrorist movement, but on the SV side, we are very concerned about the concrete mission that the government is about to take on Norway in the training of Syrian soldiers. Everything about this assignment seems to be unclear. We know that the American training assignments that have already been carried out have been a daunting failure. It is very difficult to get a clear message from the government about how this Norwegian military contribution can make a difference, and it makes it natural to believe that the government is once again primarily acting to get the Norwegian flag on the table of the Americans, without having a clear strategy for how this could contribute to a better development in Syria. It's unclear who we're going to train, it's unclear who we're going to work with, it's unclear who invited us, it's unclear why the government thinks this can make a difference now. And when none of these questions have been answered, it's hard to understand that the government and the majority of the population can already say yes to the use of our scarce military resources on this mission. My question is, how in the world can the government say yes to a military mission that it is obvious that the government knows very little about what will look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e559	If we're going to fight ISIL, we're also going to have to fight ISIL in the area they're actually ruling out. That is what we must do in Iraq and Syria, respectively. The government has been very concerned about having a good basis for international law. Since the fall of 2014, I have been busy with one thing, and it is that this should not be a struggle from the West against ISIL, for I think it would be negative. It also did that we got criticism at the beginning when the first ones came, because we weren't fast at the lab and were going to attend, but on the contrary we said we have to see a coalition present, and we have to see that this struggle is to be conducted by forces, not by Western forces, but primarily by local forces, against ISIL. That's what we're now going into, and we're helping to realize. We have a basis of international law that I believe is clear and clear. It's the same thing that makes other countries participate there: it's the defence of Iraq, it's the supply lines between Syria and Iraq to ISIL, which is the main line in the area we're going into, and the mission we're going into. Who has asked us is quite clear: France and the United States have individually approached and asked that we contribute with other countries, and we go into cooperation with France, the United States and the United Kingdom, where we practice in Jordan. So to the question of who we're going to train: there are local Sunni-Arab groups, for which a good and thorough assessment is to be made. What we have to contribute to is the fight they have against ISIL. Is that unproblematic? No, but there is nothing in this region at the moment that is unproblematic or simple. But if we're going to fight back ISIL, it's actually like someone has to fight on the ground in Syria and Iraq. It shouldn't be our troops. There should be other troops doing, but they need training to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e570	Everyone agrees that ISIL must be combated militarily. However, it does not exempt Norway from making an independent assessment of what we are doing, is wise, whether it will work, and whether it is the proper use of our scarce resources. What we know is that those who are in practice our allies in the war in Iraq, who are fighting against ISIL there, have also committed serious violations of human rights. The last example is the siege of Fallujah, where drugs and food are not admitted to the civilian population. We see that the Kurdish and Iraqi forces that Norway has trained separately are at risk of conflict. We see revelations that ISIL and Assad are working together in practice, and we know that for too many Syrian rebels, the interest is essentially for good reason about fighting the Assad regime. We risk repeating the mistakes of the past by once again entering into a military conflict without being well enough prepared and without having a clear enough plan for how it will work. Then my question is, how will the government guarantee that the ones we're training, are not used for anything other than that purpose, and may be guilty of abuse, such as our allies in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e575	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e578	The mistakes of the past are in and of themselves many. The faults of the past are also not to do anything. One of the reasons there are a lot of foreign warriors in Syria is that a lot of people experienced that the Western countries that should have backed up during the Arab Spring were not clear and present early. This caused ISIL to have an attraction. Not doing anything is also an effective choice. Doing something is a choice, and not doing anything is a choice. We're training for one purpose, and that's striking ISIL. That means that if it turns out that it changes, we have the full opportunity to stop doing this. Part of the training that we're giving is, of course, in international law, what needs to be taken into account internationally in such a situation. It's better that we are present and provide training on these kinds of issues than that this warfare is conducted without anyone knowing what the international rules for this type of warfare are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e583	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e586	The mistakes of the past may be to do nothing, but the mistakes of the past are also to invade Iraq. We see some consequences of that today. The United States spent about three billion dollars. kr to train around a hundred Syrian insurgents last year. According to an article you can read in the Evening Post today, only a handful of people are contributing to the fight against IS today. Now the United States is going to start a new round of training for Syrian groups, no one knows who, and Norway has agreed to contribute 60 people, including special soldiers. My question is: does the government really have a credible plan for this training to work and be appropriate, or is participation really about the Right's need to plant the flag on the table of the Americans?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e595	We've trained with the special forces in Baghdad, we've trained in Erbil with other soldiers, and now we're going to train in Jordan, for the same purpose: fighting ISIL in Iraq – and defending Iraq. We have done that because we believe that this fight is important also for terrorist reasons at home. That fight is important in view of world developments in the years to come, the refugee situation and other. It is not that all the answers are clear and simple, because it is not the case in this conflict that all the answers are clear and simple. But what we're going into is training for a fight against ISIL, and we have the opportunity to pull ourselves out and say that we're not into this, if this turns out to be something else. The Americans and others have also had other objects in Syria, where they have trained groups for, among others. to support under the opposition. That's not what we're into, that's not our ground of international law, and that's not where we're going to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e602	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e605	The Labour Party supports the contribution that the government wants to send to Jordan, based on the argument that people have to fight their own war. We cannot fight a war, but we can help to strengthen and support, as we do today in the Kurdish regions. But it's clear, as the representative Lightbaking is in it, that it's a very inconspicuous landscape. In such an unbridled landscape, it is almost impossible to guarantee anything, as the Light Hill is inside. But it is important that we, towards our allies, ensure that we train the right people and that they receive appropriate training. What will the Prime Minister do to our allies to assure us that the Americans and we are doing everything possible to ensure that these are the right people we are training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e613	We're going into an operation that's already started, and what we've done is we've had people in the planning phase to follow. And we've made the choice to participate here, because participation elsewhere could be more difficult, including. Because we have prioritised our home security related to aircraft, and the fact that we have a more tense relationship in the north and the need for surveillance and presence there has made us not to choose it. What we're doing is we're going in and we're also participating in this screening process, and we're going to see how these soldiers work. We want the officers present with a red card that makes it possible to draw it and say that this is not possible, for this will not be in line with what those people believe that we can do the job. It will always be the authority of the officers and of the support apparatus in Norway for those present.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e620	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e623	When the Prime Minister drew defence policy as one of the main elements of his national meeting last year, many of us believed that we could expect an offensive long-term plan that would come early and that we would have time to deal with. Now that shot is in the blue. In his talk in Oslo Military Society in January, the head of defence made it clear that Norway should reduce the number of missions abroad to strengthen our national defence capabilities. At that time, Norway had 113 soldiers in 13 different missions. Norway is today making its northern flank towards the Atlantic, and there is hardly any country that has bigger land and sea area per capita to defend. In such a situation, then, the government sends soldiers on a rather uncertain mission, and my question is: Does the Prime Minister think that there is a defensive priority for the defence of his very scarce resources, when will she possibly put down her feet and say that enough is enough, and that we must now give greater priority to our national defence capabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e630	Firstly, this is an additional contribution to be financed. This means that it is not part of the already allocated resources of the Defence. It will have the opportunity to decide when the revised national budget comes, but it will be the government's proposal. We've made assessments of the preparedness. This is because the government has increased our preparedness in the north, we have more sailing days in the north, we have increased intelligence budgets to contribute to information gathering. Marietta is now in place in the north to contribute that part of the work. We have chosen, for example: not to stop flying in this operation, because we need those planes in the north areas, both because we have too few planes at the moment that are operational, and because we have a mission there. But we believe that using special soldiers in this operation does not affect our own preparedness here at home. On the other hand, the special soldiers will also help to be more operational with others and help us to improve our interest rates in the future with soldiers coming to help in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e637	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e640	Before the 2013 big elections, Erna Solberg was ready: Norway's military capability had to be strengthened, the long-term plan was not well enough funded – it needed more money. The right was clear: they wanted to spend more money than the Labour Party – much more. Many in the defense then looked to the Right to enter the government offices and implement this, for it was precisely implementing power that was supposed to be the brand of this government itself. But then the Chief of Defense's sentence came after two years with right-wing budgets. He says clearly: Norway’s defence capabilities were weakened from 2014 to 2015. The Naval Defense sailed less in 2015 than was planned, the Air Force practiced less, and the Army trained less. The right could have chosen differently, spent more on defence, but for all over the world, the government spent less money on defence in 2015 than it was due to in the red-green long-term plan. What was too bad before the election was impossible to achieve after the election. At the same time, we know that the security policy situation in the world has changed. We have seen changes in Russia, ISIL has been on the rise, we have seen terrorist attacks against several European cities. There should be more money to defend. My question is: does the Prime Minister take responsibility for the weakening of Norway's defence capabilities on her guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e649	The defence capacity of Norway between 2014 and 2015 was weakened, among others. by the fact that our F-16 planes were in worse condition and had cracks. It was an unforeseen expense, which was then included. The cost of funding for the purchase of new fighter aircraft means that, according to the long-term plan laid down by the previous government, more efficiency will be required internally in your own organisation. In 2015, we significantly increased the defence budget, and in 2016 we have raised to 9.4 pst. increase. Last year we increased the number of sailing days, we increased the intelligence budgets – we have increased significantly for 2016 as well. What will be the sum after this four-year period is that we have strengthened the defence budgets beyond what was laid out in the long-term plan from, among other things. The working party. The interesting thing about the long-term plan from among others The working party is that it caused a deterioration in the defence other than the airside due to the flight purchase. Now, because of the security situation, we've seen that we've had to increase in some areas. There are many years of aftermath in the defense. We're going to put forward an ambitious long-term plan, a long-term plan that is clear that we need to have more endurance in our defense. What has happened over many years and under several governments – not only under the red-green, but also under several governments before that – is that you have less and less endurance, so that at the moment something happens that weakens an area, you do not have spare material or spare equipment to use it well enough. I believe the judgment over four years – and hopefully also four more – with this government will be that we have significantly strengthened the defence budgets compared to what was included in the long-term plan. 9.4 pst. This year is a solid strengthening.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e662	Defence is more than any other sector dependent on long-term plans, as it creates predictability for those planning for defence. It shall be submitted every four years and shall bind the individual defence budget. Friday was the last time-limit for the delivery of matters to be decided before the holiday. We waited, but there was no long-term plan. This is the first time since we started with the kind of long-term planning in Defense, in 1991, that the government doesn't deliver this. The disadvantage of the defense is quite obvious: they don't know what framework to deal with, and what the government is probably going to do is push on the problems. We hear a prime minister here pointing backwards to analyze what is wrong and pointing far ahead at those who are going to solve the problems. What is the reason why the long-term plan is delayed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e667	The security policy situation around us has changed significantly in recent years. I understand that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence in the previous government said when they presented their long-term plan that now was the time for the conversion to the Defence. The truth is, they're not. That's what we've discovered in this process. There is a need for significant adjustments. There is a need for significant efforts in the future – bets that have not been close to what we have so far had in order to balance the dilution of defence that has occurred in the last ten years. It's a demanding process and a demanding puzzle game. The government spends its time creating an excellent and good long-term plan that the Storting will be presented to and will take time to deal with. But the important thing is that we make sure that treatment ends in predictability of a strengthened defence, and I am glad to see that the Workers' Party is also involved. We're going to set significant priorities in the years to come, not a zero growth, that was within the previous long-term plan, but a significant growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e674	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e677	We live in a time when I think a lot of people feel insecure. We have record unemployment, we have an experience of greater differences between people, and we have a security situation, world unrest, terror and conflict, that people feel is unsafe. Making people feel safe must be a government's prime task. Not so many might have had expectations of it with unemployment and distribution, but in terms of defense, I think many thought that the Right might keep the promises. Now we hear the head of defense say that defense is impaired. The Prime Minister today admits that it is weakened. She says that this is due to unforeseen expenses, but then it is incomprehensible that the Right is based on the long-term plan that they thought was too bad before the election. Why does the Prime Minister not at least ensure that she complies with the long-term plan if she agrees with the head of defence that the defence capability has actually been weakened while she has been Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e683	With the budget we have for 2016, we have gone significantly over the long-term plan. We have more sailing days, we have turned our resources more northwards to be present, we have 9.4 pst. growth this year, and we are thus contributing to the adjustment of intelligence, to our presence there, we are contributing to the construction and maintenance of our marine vessels, and we are providing the large purchases of aircraft in the budget. So I totally disagree that when you see the totality of that budget, we're in line with the long-term plan. So for some of the questions go up and down depending on the cost. But what has been revealed, and which was much discussed when the long-term plan was discussed, is the question of whether the long-term plan we dealt with in the previous period actually took over the imbalance that was. There is considerable evidence that it did not. This is why there is a need for both changes and significant investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e688	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e700	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be taken up by the representative, Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Question 7, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e715	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There is a cross-political agreement to transport as much goods as possible by sea. What steps has the Council of State taken, and what action will he take to make progress in the work of increasing the share of goods carried by boat?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e724	Thank you for the question. This is something we have informed Stortinget about on many different occasions, including. in the State budget, and it is a pleasure to be able to repeat many of the points now. It's a goal, as the representative says, to get more goods over by sea, but also over by rail. It is about improving road safety, reducing road wear and tear, and getting a better environmental perspective. We have received a freight analysis in connection with the work on NTP. It was delivered to me on 4 September last year at Drammen harbour. It shows that of the tons en route today, there are some that are most suitable on the road, simply because it is going from one area to another where neither ship nor railway will do very good. However, it has been identified that approx. Five to seven million. tonnes of today's road transport is well suited for sea or rail transport. It's important that we go after where we think we can get results. However, I would like to stress that most of the freight is already at sea. 75 pst. the transport takes place by ship, often because much of this is about bulk cargoes that are too large or unsuitable to carry on the road. But like I said, five to seven million. tonnes should be a realistic objective of transferring in the short and medium term. That's where we've got more grips. We have put forward a national port strategy where there is also money to stimulate ports to cooperate better. Some of the goods analysis pointed to is that the main thing is not to have very large ports, but to have well-suited ports with large volumes of what they transport, so that one does not spread containers or other goods very thinly beyond, but gets them assembled so that one gets done a lot the times the ships enter the port. Then it's about bringing down the cost of the work that's going on in the ports. We have reorganised the pilot service with a view to improving the framework conditions for short sea shipping, we have a reduction in the cost of loos, which benefits shipping, and we have made sure that evidence of fairway is used much more often. This also reduces costs. We have made changes to the charging and charging regime, which strengthens short sea shipping. We made changes to the 2015 budget, but not least in 2016 we reduced the bulk emergency fee by 86 million. kr. We have a device where ships up to 8,000 gross tons get 100 pst. a discount on this charge. That means that you get a particularly good arrangement for the ships that go as short-haul shipping. There are also exemptions from the safety charge for ships of less than 70 m. We also have work to do to evaluate the Law on Ports and Waters, again to see how we can bring costs down. So a number of measures are being taken on economics, on legislation, and on improving port efficiency. It hasn't given a significant increase already, but we see that you can now reverse the downward trend that has been over time, and I'm also very positive in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e739	The Council of State expresses so far fine ambitions and wants in terms of more goods at sea, as we have so far heard before. While the Council of State shall be commended for the good follow-up of the railway and the useful follow-up to the national transport plan, as proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government in 2013, there is a lack of implementation when it comes to the region of the Coastal Works. Here the follow-up rate after three years is only 64 pst. The main reason for this weak follow-up is that the government has barely taken action to strengthen short sea shipping. I would like to remind you that measures for short sea shipping, to get more goods from road to sea, are set out in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, and it was unanimous. Here we're talking about a follow-up rate of only 18 pst. And the government is actually over 500 million. kr after the form. So my question is, why is the government so incredibly passive in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e746	I record that the representative Juvik once again has a strange way to figure out, because on the way we are well on the road, on the railway we are far ahead of the form. The point is that we're not just doing what the red-green adopted. First of all, today's government parties were with and adopted the same things. It is quite natural, then, that we in the government implement what we ourselves supported in the opposition. But we are also doing much more than what is in the national transport plan – it forgets the representative Juvik to mention again and again. We can cut the railway budget by 5 billion. kr in 2017 and still have done more in four years than the Labour Party plan when they were in government. That's how I think we have a lot we can be proud of. When it comes to the coast, it's not just about how much money you give. It's also about what structural changes you're making. We have e.g. entered the coastal area into the Ministry of Transport, which makes it now regarded as a transport area. Secondly, the reductions we are making, for example: in the case of fees, it is not included in the NTP follow-up, as the representative Juvik does, but it is nevertheless for the benefit of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e755	I re-register that the Council of State does not want to answer, or does not want, questions from the Workers' Party and the opposition and to the extent that it draws close to the criticism. There's nothing wrong with our calculator, and the former statements of the Council of State that someone is unprofessional, I take with me a crushing calm. In this case, it is not just the Working Party that is critical. NHO Logistics and Transport, which otherwise praises much of what Solvik-Olsen has done, recently concluded at a lunch meeting here in Oslo that in the case of maritime transport, the government is not following up. If the council doesn't have that plan, he can have it. This criticism repeated the NHO in a cross-border hearing on short sea shipping last week. This is where the government just gets the smears of the NHO. If the Council of State does not have it either, I can also send it, so that he sees what they mean. So it's not just the Working Party. I ask again: why does the government not have the ability to prioritise relatively reasonable measures that business believes will contribute to the transport of more goods by sea, which we all have as our goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e764	I have mentioned a number of measures that save money for short sea shipping, for which we are commended. It is possible that the representative Juvik believes that when we largely attend port association meetings and that gets a lot of praise. It's probably mostly about the ear he's listening to. As I said, when we reduce the disembarkation fee by 80 million. kr, is not normally included in NTP’s follow-up framework, but there is still money that benefits the sector. I don't think it necessarily is that you have to give a subsidy to support an area, while a tax relief is considered to have done nothing. The important thing is that we make sure that operating ports and operating short sea shipping are cheaper and more efficient. The grips we have taken are grips that we also proposed in the opposition, but that did not receive support from the Workers' Party. The fact that the Workers' Party now seems to be doing what the government is doing, we should do even more of that, is very good and indicates that we now have the government that the Workers' Party wants, when they were unable to carry out such things when they themselves ruled. Our goal is to get good measures that move more goods across the sea. We're doing a good job, we're having good dialogue with the actors. That the Workers' Party doesn't like it, I don't take so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e777	This question, from the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e780	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘What is the reason why the Council of State chose to instruct the Environment Directorate to grant permission for the exceptional killing of the bear on the ownership of the leader of the Nord-Trøndelag Right, Anders Kiär?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e787	As the representative is well-known, the predatory policy is based on a two-part objective. This means that we give grazing priority in some areas and predators priority in other areas. We shall have a low threshold for the harvesting of predators that can do or cause damage in priority pastures, and at the same time we shall have an equivalent high threshold for the felling of predators in predatory game priority areas. This government has always been clear that we want to use the space available in the forest game management to mitigate the conflicts and loss of grazing animals. That is why we have been very clear that, among other things. has a lower threshold than the previous government for the killing of predators in priority grazing areas prior to the grazing season. It is the general backbone of the instructions given to the Environment Directorate in this matter. The bear in question was located in an area where grazing activities are prioritised and it was assessed as appropriate to rapidly initiate the killing of the bear in order to avoid a possible adverse situation when the sheep is released on pasture. It is not common for the departments to instruct the authorities in individual matters. However, with a background in the need for rapid decision-making, situations may exist where appropriate. Then, of course, the premise is that it happens within the framework set by the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the Robbery Agreement. I am concerned that the directorate is managed in an efficient and appropriate way. The instruction in this case does not involve the setting up of a new practice by my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e800	I would like to stress that there is no written assessment in the decision, and that must be contrary to the nature diversity law. Last year, three sheep were taken in this area, by the bear. That bear was shot last summer. The bear that was now shot has not done any known damage, and there was no historical basis in the grazing area that this bear was going to do any damage. Experience suggests, on the contrary, with great probability that the bear after awakening would wander far from the area where it was lying in hi. The Councils of State referred to grazing area. But most of the land area in Norway is grazing. Does it now mean that all the bear present in grazing areas from now on is ‘dissatisfied’ regardless of the type of damage potential it is at the bear, or are they only ‘dissatisfied’ if they are in the grazing area of a right-wing member who is good at lobbing at the bar at the national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e807	With reference to the last point of the representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, I would like to stress that the application for this fall was submitted by the municipality of Stor-Elvdal, and that it happened before the Røjre national meeting. So it's the way we think it's going to be a low threshold to allow the killing of predators in priority pastures. That is why we have lowered the threshold because in cases where a predator is considered to be a potential harm in the coming grazing season, we want to take preventive action. We thought in this situation that there was a need for a quick killing to avert future damage to the sheep in the area. It is in line with a practice we have followed. Providing an instruction in a single case is not a practice, but it is not excluded either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e814	An instruction was given, but there was no written professional evaluation in the decision. That is why my question is: when new issues of this kind come, will the Council allow the Environment Directorate to make its own professional assessment before the decision is taken? For there is reason to ask questions about what kind of procedural practices are currently in force. The Council of State has a responsibility to follow up the Storting's target of 13 annual juveniles of bear in Norway. There is some decline in bear populations, from 166 animals in 2010 to 128 bears in 2015. The annual youth for 2015 is estimated at less than six, in other words far below the goal of the Storting. What is the probability that the Council of State will be able to achieve the aim of the Storting, if the Council of State intends to shoot bears that do not harm but that are in grazing area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e821	I would like to stress that there is a clear zone management and a low threshold for harvesting predators that is the background of this case. In this case there was a need for a quick decision, and that was the assessment, among other things. because there were good tracking conditions during this period, and knowledge of the position of the bear had recently been received. It is often challenging to have exceptional outlets, and then it is important to take advantage of good conditions for killing when these occur. The instructions were given in writing. It was also important for us to ensure transparency in this matter. With regard to the need to raise the bear population, the main measure we can take there is to protect bear guts. That's where the spread in both the number and the area is increasing very slowly. They live largely in the border areas of our neighbouring countries, while male bears are more reptiles and will more often be in pasture-prioritised areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e832	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘What will the government do to ensure that the stock targets for wild game above the contract’s target are reduced to agreed targets to ensure the dual objective of the predatory game settlement of continued grazing throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e839	The final stock figures show that we are below the stock target for bear, gloupe and wolf, while we are above the stock target for you. For the king eagle, we're in the middle of the interval measure. For the species below the target, the bear is the biggest challenge. We've less than half the young coal size has decided we're going to have. An important measure is and will continue to be to protect female bears from killing. We should also consider closer cooperation with Sweden, as the bear population is cross-border. For gaupe, last year we had a population of 4.5 young coal below the national target of 65 annual young coal. The ostrich stock is effectively regulated by quota hunting and the target shall be achieved through the quotas set. The final stock report for the wolf showed two helorian young coals in the winter of 2014–2015. The target is three-year-old Helnorse youth coal. Preliminary stock figures for this winter show that we are probably well above the stock target, but the next final stock report is available on 1 June. In the case of wolves, licensing is a good stock-regulating instrument and the target shall primarily be achieved through the quotas set. In recent years, the stock has been above the stock target of 39 annual young coal. The latest reporting showed 65 coal in 2015. Of these, 17 were extracted through exceptional extractions, so that the population of grazing season 2015 was 48 young coal. That's nine above the target. The biggest challenge we have with yours is to streamline the licensing agreement. That's why last year we opened up practical testing of new tools to make licensing of yours more effective. The active substances shall be tested for more than three years and include the use of artificial light on keratosis and the use of electronic monitoring of fishing booths. In addition, upon application to the municipality, we have made it possible to use snowmobiles to oversee your carpentry and use snowmobiles for the transport of bait and jersey booths. This spring it is so far registered far fewer yorks than in 2015. Until May 3rd, 30 young coals of yours have been registered. Two of these are taken out by exceptional outbounds. In addition, exceptional withdrawals have been made from 19 individual animals, bringing together 25 individual animals. Finally, the number of the herd is available on 1 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e856	As the Council of State has probably understood, I am from Uppland, and I am seasily very concerned with the yew population that is in Uppland. As the Council of State says, there are 65 coals of yew puppies, which are probably worth approx. 340 adult animals, in Norway. There is 26 coal above the stock – the stock target is 39. In 2014, we had 52 coals. All regions are over. In Hedmark it was last year 17 coal, and now it's 10, Uppland had 10 coal, and the goal is 4. There was a hunting quota in Uppland this year on 21 animals, and the license hunt took out 7 animals. That means we have 14 extra animals in the mountains, which shouldn't be there. The Councils pointed to the measures taken in the field of eating and light — scooters to look after their teeth, among others. – but we know that we have very difficult hunting terrain in Uppland, with weather and traffic conditions and large areas... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e863	We agree that the licensing agreement has not been effective enough to keep the stock of yorks on the national stock target of 39, and that's also why we have made regulatory changes: to try out new tools. There are a total of seven projects, distributed almost throughout the country. One of these projects is in Oppland. I believe that we need to let these pilot projects go – they will last three years – and that we need to see the impact of this before we evaluate the effect and, if necessary, assess new, further, other instruments. One measure that I believe will have a significant loss reduction effect is, among other things: previous sinking of sheep in priority nitrogen regions. Up to half of the loss is reported by surveys after 1 September, and I will therefore ask the regional administrative authority to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e868	The problem in Uppland is that there are too many animals there. We haven't been able to take the extraordinary measures, and then we have to look at what's wrong with the extraordinary measures. These include: the fact that people do not get into the area early enough to take out the animals that are there, due to weather and traffic conditions, storms in the mountains, etc. One understands that it is not very easy to hunt then. What Rovviltnämnde in Oppland has asked about is to be allowed to take over the administration from February 15th to June 1st, and I personally think that would be a very good idea. We also know that the Council of State has previously called for an evaluation, which is coming to summer, but it is nevertheless a good time until summer, and there are too many animals in the area now. The question is: what are the measures that the Government will take now to take out the remaining part of the quota, which is too high, and the animals that are too many, now before we put the sheep on the graze?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e877	It is not surprising that it will take some time before these extraordinary, new measures will have full effect, but we are recording this spring – the country over – far fewer yeavers than in 2015. This indicates an effect. And I think it's important that we let the trial plan get some time before we conclude. But it's important to keep a constant eye on this. We want to get down to the stock target, and it is also important to have a good dialogue with regional administrations on development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e886	I have a question for the Minister of Health and Health: ‘In the long-term plan of the Sørlanden Hospital HF, it is planned to cut 400 annual works. The size has asked the government to ensure that regional health businesses start a process of moving more of the elective surgery in the enterprise to the emergency hospitals. Does the Council of State believe that the Sørlande hospital's plan is in line with the objectives of the Government for the healthcare of patients, and what does the Council of State consider that Sørlanden hospital should decentralize, as the Stortinget has asked?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e893	The board of the Sørlande Hospital dealt with on 2l. in April 2017, the long-term economic plan for 2017 to 2020. The plan shows the need for reduced staffing in the somatic disciplines in the future. Southern Hospital HF states that there are several reasons why they reduce staffing. Over the past five years, there has been too high a rise in staffing, the need for digital renewal efficiency, the need for cost reductions in order to be able to use new forms of treatment and drugs, and the need to ensure the economic sustainability of necessary investments. The South Hospital believes that it is necessary to turn the priority of funds towards investment. Southern hospitals expect rotation to contribute to increased patient availability and quality in patient treatment. Together, the Sørlande Hospital informs us that there is a need for an adjustment of the crew with nearly 200 annual work over the next four years. It is also stated that the ongoing reorganisation will help to ensure better operation and resource utilisation. Although the allocation of health regions facilitates the growth of patient treatment, the regional health businesses and health businesses are the closest to assessing how best to make best use of resources for patients. In the business meeting with regional health companies earlier today, in line with the Stortingen decision, I have given guidance to start a process of moving more of the elective surgery in the enterprises to the emergency hospitals where it is possible to do so. This must occur within the appropriations in force at all times, and there need be no contradiction between that and the fact that the Sørlande hospital has seen it necessary to make changes in its operation. I also pointed out that the board of directors of the Sørlande Hospital decided to await guidance signals related to the National Health and Hospital Plan, and that they would take these into account in further work on the development plan and revision of the long-term economic plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e906	I read in the media that they have added to the Sørlande hospital, which has given a message of alarm to the management of the company and the rental in Health South-East that they planned annual workcuts at the hospital in Flekkefjord – this is where the Council of State evaluated – can lead to a reduction in quality and patient safety. Looking at what has happened at the Sjukehuset Telemark, about which I have another question today, where de-manning and de-scaling have led to the health agency being now supervised by the County Council due to irresponsible operation – can the Council of State guarantee that the dramatic cuts proposed by Sørlanden Sickehus now face should not go beyond either patients or coverings and secure defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e911	As the representative is aware, it is the management and management of the individual hospital that is responsible for their proper functioning and that is in line with the national leadership provided and, of course, with the safety requirements of health law. It is also those responsible for carrying out good processes with the employees and trustees. It is those who are responsible for keeping the budgets in line with the budgetary appropriations allocated by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e916	I have a question of follow-up to the decision of the Storting in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan, where a mass increase calls on the Council of State to ensure that regional health practitioners start a process of shifting more of the elective surgery into the lead population of emergency hospitals, where appropriate, in order to strengthen the general surgical competence of these hospitals. I did not get the full answer from the Council of State on how the Council of State will take care of this, and on what specific Southland hospitals will come up with new reports and plans to implement this decision. I would like to ask the Council of State quite specifically: does the Council of State defend the proposed 400-year-old work at the Sørlande hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e923	The follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan has been carried out in an enterprise meeting today, where all health regions have been audited in line with this, and where one of the tasks is to launch such a process in accordance with the leadership of the National Health and Hospital Plan, as presented by the Government, to which the Stortinget has joined. This work will be followed up by health regions and businesses in the usual way, both in the planning work they have, in the budgetary decisions they take, and in the development of the service. For the first time, there has been a clear indication of the strengthening of the smaller hospitals in a mission document.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e932	‘Force is a serious intervention. Norway tops European statistics on the use of coercion. The UN and the Council of Europe have repeatedly addressed this issue. Now VG proves that the Health Directorate has misinformed, and that there is actually an increased use of coercion and not less. Nor can the Health Directorate say when they will be able to report correctly. VG also refers to large geographical differences in the use of coercion. When can the Storting expect correct information on the use of coercion, and how will the Council of State ensure less use of coercion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e939	I fully agree with the representative Grung: using coercion to treat sick people is a serious intervention. Force is often a poor solution, and it should be the last resort after everything else has been tried. I am therefore disappointed that health services – apparently – have so little been able to change their practices in this area. We have long been aware that national enforcement figures have been deficient — despite repeated, clear demands on health businesses to ensure proper reporting. As the representative Grung refers to, the review by the VG of coercive decisions gives reason to believe that the scope of certain types of coercion is far greater than that reported by healthcare companies to the Norwegian patient register. This is alarming. There should also be a clear motivation for health businesses. When the press proves that hospitals report false and under-numbered use of coercive measures compared to actual practice, it is very understandable that patients, relatives and others ask questions about adequate control of health services and the extent to which quality assurance of the treatment of the most serious mental disorders is being undertaken. It is unsustainable that the health authorities and the public have not been properly informed about how much force is being used in the service and that this has been going on for many years. It is serious if the health establishments themselves do not have an overview. Knowledge of self-enforcement, how much and what coercion is used in what situations is a prerequisite for keeping track of developments over time and initiating measures to increase volunteering where it is effective. In a short time, I will invite the professional and user environments to a meeting on efforts to ensure less use of coercion and proper use of coercion when such action is absolutely necessary. In addition, we are taking the initiative to amend and review the regulatory framework for the use of coercive measures. In the case of coercive data, the issue has been raised in the dialogue with regional health businesses and with the Health Directorate. I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when quality assured figures are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e954	I perceive that the minister takes this seriously what it should be taken. Last Monday I visited Health Bergen and had a whole day tied up against psychiatry. I was, among other things, out at Sandviken Hospital and got to see what a protocol is. I was quite surprised – it's actually just a line. So I wonder, what work does the Control Commission do? Actually, they just see if a doctor has signed, and it doesn't last. At the same time, there is a long time to improve the electronic tool, because there is evidence of what has been done in advance — or should at least do — in preventing the use of coercion. The follow-up question is: Will the Minister take the initiative to put in place electronic tools, so that you do not have independent old-fashioned protocols, but that everything is available in one place? Then it should also be easier for the Control Commission to do its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e961	We're going to follow up pretty broadly. Of course, at first we have asked regional health companies for the status of ensuring good data. A central question that needs to be answered is: When can we expect the data provided to be correct? This was also the theme of my overall business meeting today. The Ministry will also discuss the matter with the Health Directorate, which is responsible for the SAMDATA publications. We will then assess the need for further action. Good and user-friendly electronic reporting can, of course, be an important measure, but it cannot be an excuse for not reporting correct figures. The figures are available and shall be reported. Something else is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e968	What I also got more insight was that of course there are major differences in the use of coercion, and it is difficult to know what is right and what is wrong. I was also at the BUP, and they don't use coercion at all, while a large proportion of those who experience a relatively high level of belt use – which we who are not involved, perhaps feel is one of the biggest interventions – are just young girls who are under attack, and who may think that there is better belting than being held by men. The drug use may not be correct either. I know the minister has said he's going to start a new NOU work, but I hope we're using the knowledge we have now, to start action already, because this is one of the most vulnerable patient groups. And those who work in the area should get good documentation, so they can compare, see the history and see what happens next to the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e975	Yes, before the summer, the Stortinget will be presented with extensive legal work in this area, where we continuously strengthen the patient’s legal security in connection with the use of coercion. One of the measures proposed there is that in cases of coercion, the patient should be entitled to an evaluation interview with healthcare professionals afterwards, where the patient’s experience of the use of coercion is to be recorded. In this way, if an assessment of the need for coercion arises at a later stage, one can look at what the patient himself assessed in such a situation, and focus on it. It will also provide us with increased knowledge of the use of force in the service. There is one of many measures that will now be proposed. In addition, we're going to set up a NOU committee, but it's more extensive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e984	‘The County of Telemark has carried out the supervision of defensive patient treatment in case of overcoating at the Hospital Telemark HF. The draft report, dated 21 April 2016, identified three non-conformities. The Hospital Telemark HF has a periodically unresponsive high patient coverage; they do not have a sure defenceful follow-up of so-called ‘satellite patients’ and lack control tools to record and monitor patient coverage. Will the Council of State report to the Stortinget on the situation at the Hospital Telemark HF?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e991	The representative Toppe refers to a preliminary report from a supervision carried out by Fylkemansen at the Surgical Clinic and Medical Clinic in Skien. The report is preliminary, and I will not go into the matter while it is under consideration. However, the Telemark Hospital acknowledges that they have had challenges with overcoating in some posts, especially where the main emphasis of patients is put in place as immediate help. They indicate that the attention of the State has led to the implementation of a number of improvement measures. The hospital reports that they have increased the number of beds and increased the number of staff at the most heavily charged bed posts during the last year. They have also increased the number of beds in the winter months – both on the Notodden and in the Ski – as it is at this time that there are most infectious diseases. The hospital also works with measures to ensure that no patients have to lie on the corridor. The Hospital Telemark believes that having an emergency room consultation contributes to the early clearance and initiation of treatment for acutely ill patients. The hospital has established a cancer ward which, according to the hospital, also helps relieve the regular bed posts. The fact that municipalities accept ready-to-print patients when they have completed hospital treatment has also had an effect. On a general basis, I would like to point out that there are several factors in addition to the number of beds that affect the occupancy rate, among others. establishment of daily services for immediate assistance in municipalities and increased competence in reception. As can also be seen from the National Health and Hospital Plan, the specialist health service will be under considerable pressure in the future. It is therefore important to look at how to improve the use of capacity in hospitals and how to improve cooperation with municipalities. The Hospital Telemark informs us that they take the report from County State very seriously and are working to solve the challenges. They have been working to improve the situation, and a number of measures have been put in place in recent months to improve staffing, reduce labour pressure and prevent patients from lying on the corridor. The Hospital Telemark is responsible for ensuring that patients are treated well and properly, and I assume that the County Council report is followed up to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1010	The County of Telemark submitted a draft report on the supervision of the Hospital Telemark: ‘We find it critical in itself that healthcare companies do not have good enough systems to record patient coatings and that this makes it difficult for both the board members of the company, the supervisory authority, political authorities and others to have a proper understanding of the size of the patient coating.’ My question is whether the Council of State can confirm that healthcare professionals do not have a unified, good system to register patient care, and what, in case, the Council of State is doing actively to fix this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1020	The question again refers to the preliminary report of the establishment, which came on the basis of a statement of concern from the Association of Young Doctors. The report from the County is preliminary, and I will not go into it while it is being processed. However, the question has been submitted to Health South-East, which states that the Hospital Telemark agrees with this deviation that the representative is now addressing, and says that they have challenges with regard to the quality of the management situation in this area. They state that there are weaknesses in reports generated by electronic means that will provide an overview of multiple entries and coatings over longer periods of time. The hospital Telemark believes that the report shows too high a bed cover. The health undertaking is responsible for having tools and procedures which ensure that it is able to plan and operate properly. The Hospital Telemark has worked to ensure better use of DIPS in the planning and management of the business as a follow-up to this issue of supervision. The Hospital Telemark has also taken initiatives towards hospital partners and others, which could benefit other health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1027	It has been a development plan for the Hospital Telemark that the Council of State has approved. There's a known conversion that was going to happen. Then I thought it was very alarming that this supervision did not come as a result of the company itself, i.e. the Hospital Telemark, but after a written warning from the trustees. So the supervision has been expanded due to three deaths and a near-death last year, which they see in connection with high patient coverage and high work loads, and it has been found to be irresponsible patient treatment. I thought this was pretty serious. Even though the report is currently in progress, I ask the Council of State whether he thinks that the system through a conversion is good enough when this can happen and there are coincidences that make it alert.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1032	Once again, I think it is important that both the representative and I, as the Council of State, wait until we have received the final report and until the hospital has been given their version of what has happened, before we draw the bastant conclusions on coherence. Then I fully agree with the representative that it is important to have good systems in connection with changes and transitions. Part of the system is also to have trusted people who give a message and who send this kind of alerts. It's important, and it's a role that trustees have, which I'm also committed to supporting, because no matter how good systems we manage to create and establish, we also depend on the people who work in the systems and their compliance with the requirements that are, and their willingness to give a message if they experience that things are not as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1050	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1057	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: «At a discussion meeting on Monday 25 April, OUS Director Erikstein came with the positive news that Oslo University Hospital will give priority to building a new local hospital on Aker in parallel with Oslo Municipality building a new urban hospital guard there and that the pre-project could start all December 1st this year. [[OUT]] The Council of State has previously said that he is open to a new local hospital in Aker, if the health company agrees. Will the Council of State now support the OUS plan to prioritize local hospitals in Aker and follow this up at owner’s meetings in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1066	The report on the capacity challenges in Oslo and Akershu Hospital Areas and the recommendation from the Board of Directors of Oslo University Hospital on the idea phase project at Oslo University Hospital will be discussed on schedule by the Board of Health South-East of 16 June. At the same meeting, a long-term financial plan shall also be considered. I want to await the management board's treatment. I have, as the representative is familiar with, followed these processes closely. I have been concerned that Health South-East is making sure to look at the development of the entire capital region as a whole, and especially the relationship between Akershu University Hospital and Oslo University Hospital. In January, the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital went in for a target picture with a comprehensive and complete regional hospital – including local hospital functions – at Gaustad, a local hospital in Aker and cancer treatment at the Radium Hospital. In this respect, I have stated that it would be natural to consider whether it would be appropriate to add the three districts currently offered to Akershu University Hospital, to Oslo, and possibly to a new local hospital in Aker. I am aware that, during a debate last week, the Executive Director of the OUS stated that it is desirable to start developing early in Aker, but that the development of the Regional Security Department, the Radium Hospital, the Rikshospitalet and the Aker must take place in parallel and in stages. What will be possible will also depend on the overall economic carrying capacity of Health South-East. I have also noticed that Health South-East has stated that they are positive to the proposal for an early start on the development of Aker. I believe it is important that we now establish a direction for the development of specialist health services in the capital. I believe that the decision made by the board of Oslo University Hospital is positive, but that Health South-East must make sure to put this into a context that also clarifies the future of the three districts that today receive their offer to Ahus. At the same time, I would like to be quite clear that all changes in the capital must take place over time, both to ensure the good use of the capacity we have today, to prevent the build-up of overcapacity and to ensure that developments take place within the framework available to the capital area as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1081	I thank you for the answer, which I perceive so that it has a positive device. After clarifying that a new local hospital was to be built on Aker, as Oslo University Hospital did in January, it has been the leaping point when they wanted to do so, because the capacity challenges are booming in the Oslo area. The premise of a new local hospital that will change part of what forms the basis of the capacity challenge report, because the planning horizon will then change. So I think the Council of State should think about when health south-east, with which he has a meeting of owners, should clarify the decisive premise for further planning. Because it's clear that if you leave it open, some of the important factors here will remain open. I think the progress of what came last Monday was so good that the Council of State should take the spell further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1088	I have now experienced having these regular meetings with the representative Bøhler on this topic here in the Questionnaire, and my impression is that the representative is more and more satisfied with every time I meet him, and that is a good starting point. I think it's important that we let Health South-East, the health region that's responsible for the whole here, make their own assessments before I, as the Council of State, draw my conclusions. It has something to do with having a clear division of responsibilities between the different levels and, not least, ensuring that we have a good basis for decision making on this process. Experience suggests that shortcuts of this kind of question often become quite lengthy detours, so I think it's important that we have a neat process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1095	I thank you for the additional reply as well. In its first response, the Council of State stated that it was important to prevent overcapacity. I just want to stress that this is about Oslo/Akershus area, the danger of a large undercapacity and the pressure that is at Aarhus now, and that the population in this area is increasing by about 25 000 a year, that is. around the country may correspond to a new local hospital every five years. There are no plans to meet this if you do not now take this staff with Aker Hospital quickly. With regard to the criticism of Health South-East’s work on the capacity challenges that we have presented in recent times – after the same report has been submitted, which was now being discussed, which reported in 2007-2008, which proved to be such a disastrous mistake: three to four years after 160,000 patients from the reception area to Aker hospital were moved to Aarhus, they reported passports and had to send a large proportion of those patients to other hospitals. So when an environment has made such scandalous mistakes in its analysis basis twice in a row – or at least once before and now has been used again – it is important, in my opinion, that the Council of State enters and learns from the experience of the previous wave and does not now underestimate capacity needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1106	Yes, and therefore I have also chosen, since I became the Council of State, to follow this process very closely and have regular meetings both with Health South-East and with Oslo University Hospital. And I think that we now – and I think the representative fully agrees with me – are in a completely different place from where we were in the autumn of 2013. I am very concerned that we will soon have to draw the necessary conclusions, so that we have a target image to work from that which gives progress and results in this matter. This is pretty complicated, there are a lot of factors that need to be put in place, and it's important that the different factors get in place at the right time, so that we make sure we use the resources properly. And then what time a phase in the different expansions is, absolutely crucial for this to go well, also for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1117	‘Icelanders are significantly better off than Norway to ensure that the fishing industry uses the whole fish. The future of the industry is to exploit all the raw materials. At a time when Norway needs more than long to invest heavily in new jobs and increased value creation, we need offensive policies and government support to promote innovation and innovation. How will the Council of State contribute to increased employment and value creation through exploitation of the whole fish and how quickly will work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1124	I thank you for the question, because there is an important question, not least the focus on Norway's now in a period of substantial change, and that in this situation we show more than ever the capacity for innovation and flexibility. I fully agree with the questioner about this. The government has also made a significant contribution to research and innovation, but, of course, we cannot put all the emphasis on research to increase profitability. In addition, in the situation we are in now, we have made a significant uplift in infrastructure to deal with this low economic situation and unemployment to a large extent. When the government presented the notification of the seafood industry with concrete measures, it was in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the seafood industry in Norway. An important point in this communication, which may have been – and is – gone in the debate, was to use the whole fish, all year round. The marine raw material is a valuable resource and will also become significantly more valuable in the future. We have an enormous potential to exploit it much more than what we're doing. Particularly in the whitefish sector, improving the quality of raw material, streamlining raw material supply and exploitation of whole fish will be a very important contribution to increasing profitability. In the communication, we also set a target for the landing of all catches in the long term. However, there is no provision for a general ban on the landing of all residues today. Neither part of the fishing fleet nor the land industry is, at least for the time being, able to maintain this raw material in a good way. Until then, I believe that the industry should be given considerable flexibility and space for action to make the best use of the raw material. I will work to ensure that the regulation of the industry, including the regulation of the design of vessels, does not prevent valuable biological material from being conserved and exploited. I know that the industry is in fact in the process of preparing for this by replacing parts of its fleet in order to preserve the whole fish on land in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1139	There's probably a little bit of different political direction that's going out here when it comes to how we're going to get smoother access to the fishing industry. They're the ones who think you should liberalize more, so that more of the fish are caught longer at sea, in order to get smoother access – with the destruction of the fish value that it will bring with it. We in SV are threatened by a coastal-based fisheries policy, where even access takes place through different types of technological solutions. But what's really my question in this round is technological. When Norwegian companies are to invest in, for example: slot machines, which are very important to get the raw material used, but also to get an efficient production, they buy that technology from Iceland. What is the reason why a kingdom that is only a little bit more populous than the city of Bergen should be so dominant in this field? Why can't Norway have a larger technological program for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1146	It is no surprise that I disagree with the representative in the introduction. I think that the future will show that we need coastal fishing as much as we do for other types of fishing, to take care of industry, industry and profitability in the future. I think that's also going to prove to a greater extent. But I very much appreciate the fact that the Storting is engaged in this field. The size has asked us to develop a strategy for the use of residues and an incentive scheme for the landing of fish. But I believe that this must also be seen in the context of the fact that, together with other government councils, I am going to present a bioeconomy strategy during this year – it needs to be seen in the context of it. We're starting now, I'm starting to follow the decision of Storting, of course I am, and I'm going to listen to the industry. And I'll not least look at Iceland and see what they've done about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1151	Yes, it was our sister party in Iceland that had the Minister of Fisheries when the big structural changes happened there. And they're completely honest about it, Iceland's fishing is completely different, among other things. gives nature much smoother access to raw materials, which gives you a completely different situation there. Norway has to think Norwegian way, we have to figure out what our path is into the fishing future. That's where I think we need a bigger technological program, so we can get a higher price for the raw material -- we know we're much higher for fresh fish, i.e. coastal fish -- but we also have a technological program where Norway can be world-leading in this area as well. In other areas of marine fields, Norway is leading the world through different types of schemes, such as: inward farming, where one has much more uniform fish than inward white fish. There we have not had the same rush from state authorities, and I want to repeat the question of whether this is something the ministry and the council will consider starting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1156	I feel that I have responded to that challenge, not least what the Storting has ordered the government and me: to put a strategy for this. Then, of course, we have to look at all kinds of solutions we have, because we have a common goal of getting the whole fish on land, and then it's quite natural. It would be completely disrespectful of me not to follow up the decision that the representative was also behind in the Storting not long ago. But we have something to learn from nutrition in Norway too, because if you look at red fish and pelagic fish in the aquaculture sector, you are now approaching a hundred percent reuse, or delivery, of the whole fish. So we have a lot to learn from this field. Then, during the debate on the maritime industry notification, I also recorded that the house, which is also in its position, refers to the EU, and that the EU has made some legislative decisions in that direction. That's not right. For the time being, the EU has only concentrated on the food of fish on land, and not the whole fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1168	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The ongoing work on a long-term defence plan may have a major impact on our cultural offer. The music place of defence, which, in addition to having an important ceremonial and cultural significance in defence and defence culture, is also an important face for the defence against civil society, is thus an important cultural actor. Has the Council of State, with the overall responsibility for culture in Norway, any feeling that cultural infrastructure can be substantially changed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1177	As the representative of Haukeland Liadal points out, the defence music has an important ceremonial significance for the defense. In addition, the music of the Defense is an important face outside and also important, given that for the Defense there is a face out against the civilian population. The local music activities of the defense are – as I said – contributing to creating closeness and commitment between the defence and the civilian population, so the music of the defense is also an important cultural bearer. As Minister of Culture, I cannot comment on the ongoing work on the long-term defence plan, but I can assure the representative Haukeland Liadal that the government recognises the importance of the defence's cultural activity. The music of defence is also important for civil society in the regions they represent and is of great importance for the cultural infrastructure. The fact that changes in defence activities will also affect civil society is evident, and this is something that the government has brought with it in the consideration of the long-term defence plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1186	I thank you for your answer and for your insurance. I Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 says among others\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The music of defence is, through its presence and visibility, an important bridge builder between the Defence and the rest of the community.’ Has there been any contact between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Culture in discussing the cultural added value and social contract in the presence of the Defence Music since the Minister of Culture joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1198	I can assure you that, as Minister of Culture, I have a good dialogue with my colleagues in the government, including the Minister of Defence, and that, as I said earlier, I am concerned that the music of Defence is and will be an important cultural bearer, and that the music of Defence is of great importance, not least a ceremonial significance. I understand that earlier today there has been a debate in Stortinget where the Workers' Party has been very concerned that the defence's resources need to be concentrated on the operational capability of the defence. I'm glad the Workers' Party underlines that. I also believe that this is the main focus of the work on the long-term plan, from the point of view of several parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1205	I thank you for the answer and appreciate the good dialogue. A unanimous rally joined St. Meld. 33 for 2008-2009, on the culture of defence and its ambitions towards 2020. Is it now, in the light of a future race, that the military cultural institutions, with history back to the early 1800s, are considered less important now than six years ago when the message came?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1214	As the representative of Haukeland Liadal is well aware, the defence music is under the defence minister's portfolio. This is not the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Culture, and it is not natural for me to comment on the long-term defence plan. I note that the music of the Defence is an important cultural bearer. It is of great importance to the cultural sector, but also to the defence sector. I also stress that as Minister of Culture, I record the importance of the Workers' Party's commitment to the military's operational capability in the context of the long-term plan. Then we get back to what the content of the long-term plan is when this is presented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1221	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-04.ana.ud401e1234	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
