ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e28	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e33	On behalf of the representatives of Jenny Klinge, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I am delighted to propose a ban on the import of street dogs into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e38	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e43	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete, Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to wind up Norwegian participation in the PISA study.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e64	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Elisabeth Vik Aspaker and Anniken Hauglie will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e73	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. This spring we had a debate in Stortingen about increasing differences. The Minister for Finance then said: ‘First, there are no increasing differences in Norway. I just want to refute that claim." However, after asking written questions about the Minister of Finance's statements, she had to admit that the differences are increasing. This week, the SSB presented a report showing both an increase in income differences, an increase in the proportion of low income and an increase in the proportion of persistent low income. So there's going to be bigger differences between people and more poor people. The main economic distinction goes between those inside and those outside the labour market. Now the employment rate is the lowest in 20 years, and almost no jobs are created in the private sector. It contributes to increased differences. Another redistributive instrument is tax. In four budgets, the government has cut taxes by almost 25 billion. kr and increased the fees by 3,3 billion. kr. Last Friday, TV 2 was able to reveal the distribution profile after three years with the Right Party government: while the country's wealthiest gets $1,800 a day in tax cuts, most people get a few headsets. It also contributes to increasing differences. Then we have a third redistributive instrument, and that's the device on the state budget. Here the government has, among other things, the reduction in the child allowance for the disabled, the motor vehicle scheme for the disabled, the introduction of tax on termination benefits and the removal of the holiday allowance for the unemployed. Next year, the government is proposing cutbacks in support of multi-disabled, disabled and chronically ill people. It also contributes to increasing differences. My question is, is the Minister of Finance concerned about a development where the differences are increasing? And in that case, why has the government over the entire period led a policy that helps to increase the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e94	Let me start by saying that we're going to be very happy that we live in one of the few countries in the world with as little differences between people as it actually is in Norway. That being said, I agree that we should constantly strive to reduce the differences even more, for the more people who manage themselves, the better it is for a society. That is why I agree with the representative Marthinsen that one of the main reasons for differences between people is the distinction between those who are in work and those who are out of work. That is why it has been incredibly important for this government, when we have encountered this very difficult situation with a historic oil price drop, to reinforce the measures both in the short and long term to meet the short-term challenges and at the same time contribute to the long-term and very demanding transformation of the Norwegian economy. The government has met with measures on the expenditure side, and we have met with measures on the tax side. This is a government where the two government parties have gone to the elections to reduce taxes in Norway, and we have delivered on that. I want to remind the representative Marthinen that 75 pst. of the tax reductions we have actually given, have gone to ordinary people, to pensioners, to social security, to businesses and to reduce other types of taxes, while only 25 pst. tax reductions have led to a reduction in taxes on wealth. But we have also chosen to do something about it, simply because we believe it is wrong to have more taxes on Norwegian ownership in Norway than on foreign ownership in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e102	Then I disagree with the representative Marthinsen that the government is pursuing an unsocial policy. On the contrary, I believe that the budget for next year also shows that we are strengthening the social profile of the budget by strengthening mechanisms that will benefit people with different challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e105	I have to say I'm starting to wonder if the Minister of Finance has at all got the report that the SSB has presented, and the conclusions of it, and it might not be so strange if she doesn't have it, or is concerned about it. Before the election, the Minister of Finance went out in the Evening Post and defended increased differences and said: It is no public task to smooth out differences due to the fact that someone earns more and inherits more and owns more than others. Those opinions appear to be representative of the government. The tax havens have been targeted at those groups with the highest wealth. And then the finance minister is busy with percentages in his answer to me, and we can talk about percentages, because the government's own tables show that it's not just in dollars that the richest get the most. Also, the percentage reduction in taxes increases with increased income. At the same time, the Minister of Finance has increased the fees by 3.3 billion. kr. So what is the Minister of Finance's reason that she's given them with the highest incomes bigger tax cuts, both in dollars and in percent?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e114	I have the SSB report with me, but I might be able to inform Marianne Marthinsen about a little detail in the SSB report, namely that the data base for it extends to the end of 2014. Then this government had started so far. So the background material for the inequality calculations contained in the SSB report extends to the functioning of the previous government. So it was under the previous government that the differences increased, and maybe it should bring Marianne Marthinsen before she attacks this government to increase the differences. On the contrary, this government is committed to reducing differences in Norway. Some of the most important tools we can use to achieve this are through the education system on the one hand, and it's by making sure that more people get into work, and not least that we have good health services. That is why this government has strengthened the health system, which is why this government has strengthened school effort, and therefore this government continues to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e121	There will be follow-up questions – first Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e126	The finance minister reminds us once again that the Progress Party went to the elections in a large tax haven – for most people – but already in the first budget the Progress Party failed in this way. Then several of the party's biggest representatives pushed out and demanded that the tax cuts in next year's budget should benefit ordinary people. The result was an even more unsocial budget. Neither in the third round of the budget did it cut the tax for most people. Siv Jensen has now submitted its last budget. Almost 25 billion. kr goes to tax cuts, but most people are left with only one five a day. In addition, the government has increased the fees by 3.3 billion. kr. Those who really have reason to rub their hands are the rich sponsors of the government party Right. They've contributed 16 million. NOK 230 million. kr in tax cuts. What does the Minister of Finance think about her own voters being eaten with crumbs, while Right-wing sponsors can laugh all the way to the bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e133	Who has said that this is the last budget of this Minister of Finance? So to the question of tax relief for most people, it's like an average family has got over $8,000 in tax relief with this government. It's possible that the representative Hagebakken thinks it's too small to count, but to think so, you might have been sitting on the Stortinget for a while with a good salary. I rather believe on the contrary that it is good that the government has managed to give tax relief to everyone – evenly distributed. And so that's still like 75 pst. of what this government has spent on reducing taxes and taxes, has gone to any tax reduction other than a reduction in taxes on wealth. But yes, we have also given priority to reducing property taxes – again – because we believe it is wrong that there should be a difference in the taxation of foreign and Norwegian-owned enterprises in Norway. I had hoped that the Workers' Party had come a little further in its view of Norwegian ownership in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e142	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e147	It is tempting to follow up when the Minister of Finance says, ‘Who has said’, that I might say, ‘Yes, what do you mean?’ But we're going to discuss in the party every now and then who should sit here and there, so I'm going to leave it, even though it was very tempting to continue on it. I agree with the Minister of Finance that there may be good reason to read this report and see what time it is for, because it is absolutely right that it applies until 2014 and is largely about the previous period of government. I'm going to come back to that in my main question, but I want to ask the Minister of Finance: how does she assess the balance in terms of the distribution policy between transfers and tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e155	It is such that the overall view of the action space that the government has had in this period has about 14 pst. reduced taxes, while above 85 pst. have been strengthening different parts of the welfare community, from strengthening the community economy, strengthening hospitals’ budgets and contributing to record investment in road and rail investments to re-establishing the maintenance set-up – at least starting to work on it – to making changes in childcare policies so that we particularly support under low-income families, to put in place a reinforced care scheme, which I believe is an important contribution to the next year’s budget. This may not apply to many, but to those involved, this is an incredibly important contribution to mastering a demanding everyday life with very ill children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e160	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e165	The party of progress now has three years in government. I want to bring the pariliar Siv Jensen back to the election campaign in 2013. I am absolutely sure that Siv Jensen would have protested if the centre party had then said the following three things: the centre party believes that after three years with the Progress Party in government, the Norwegian people will pay a historic amount in fees; an increase of 3.3 billion. kr. The central party believes that after three years with the Progress Party in government, there will have been a new Norwegian record in tolls. The centre party believes that after three years with the Progress Party in government, tolls have been introduced into the air. We didn't say that in the Center Party, simply because we didn't think it would happen. Now it's happened. So my question is: Is Siv Jensen happy to have completed the lifting break of the times in Norwegian politics and have charged the Norwegian people 3.3 billion. Do you have any additional fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e170	The President will recall that there should be a good link between follow-up questions and main issues. But I'm going to leave to the Minister of Finance if she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e175	President, I would like to respond to that, because I am very pleased with the participation of the Progress Party in government, where we are taking more steps in the right direction. So as long as we've been in government, tax cuts of over 18 billion have been adopted. kr. It is true that some environmental taxes have increased. But we have also removed the inheritance fee. We have removed and reduced a large number of other charges. We have made repairs and changes to the car charges, which I know are very much appreciated by many of the country's drivers. Then it's true that we've set a historical record on the transport side. There has never been more money allocated to the road budget than during this government. In addition to having record appropriations for new investments, we have started a job that the previous government completely neglected, that is, the maintenance set-up. It is now going down with the Progress Party in government, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e182	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e187	I would like to put the question to Mr Hauglie, since work and unemployment are also a topic for the question. The unemployment rate in my home country, Uppland, is on record 1.7 pst. So the unemployment isn't equal all over the country. We were in a financial crisis a few years ago, and the industry and parts of the labour market in Uppland changed. In addition, Nav has also been imposed, but has also organised some changes to get people working. So you did a good job in Uppland and Hedmark, in the Inland, where you don't depend on the oil price, but maybe more on the dollar price. But it's important how Nav works, and some projects have been tried out in the last three years. Now some of them are at risk of being stopped, and especially some projects aimed at those with drug problems and mental disorders. What will the Council of State do to continue the good projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e192	First of all, it's quite right that the representative says that the Inland is going down, so it's going down, not least because of the crown price, and that's good. With regard to the projects to which the representative refers, it may in particular relate to one project, the so-called IPS project, which is a pilot project that is being tested in several parts of the country. I myself visited the project in Bodø and got an introduction to the good work they are doing there. I have also visited a project in Oslo, which is not financed as a pilot project, but which is a similar method. Now the project goes out. What we're concerned about is seeing how we can continue the good experience, retain the competences that have been developed in these projects, also in the future. We are committed to securing funding even after the project period expires, until we get this implemented in the ordinary work. We are in dialogue with the Ministry of Health about how we can continue these good experiences, and I feel confident that we will find a good solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e197	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e203	My question is to the Minister of Finance. In spring, a tax reform was adopted that, according to the Newspaper, had a hair-tracing distribution profile. That's why it's good to hear that the whole bouquet of parties that we agreed on that reform, now that everyone has become concerned about increasing differences. That's very good. That's what's needed, because the government has distributed tax cuts to those who have the most in this society. It's a roughness that doesn't apply to everyone at all. For example, those who have lost their jobs, those who are in an insecure situation, those who might need good arrangements, tariff schemes that provide termination benefits, experience getting tax returns from the government. How can it be that those who have to stop due to bad times have to pay more in taxes when Siv Jensen decides, while those who have the most, will always get tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e210	This government has been concerned that everyone should benefit from tax reductions. It is an honest matter – as SV – to want to increase the overall level of taxation in Norway. So this government disagrees. We chose to reduce the tax burden, we have achieved reductions in the tax burden, and we will continue to implement reductions in the tax burden, simply because that makes sense. It makes sense because it facilitates more work, it facilitates more investment, and it facilitates more people to live on their own income. This is absolutely necessary in the current transition challenge of the Norwegian economy. The fact that we also make reductions in taxes on wealth is necessary for several reasons. The main reason is that we have different taxes on foreign and Norwegian ownership in Norway. I think that's unreasonable. There's a difference this government wants to remove. We know that many now have challenges in paying the property tax. So there is a reason why the Storting decided to suspend the payment of property taxes, simply because many companies might otherwise be at risk of ending up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e218	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e223	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. As referred to earlier in the Questionnaire, a report on the economy and living conditions of different low-income groups was published a few days ago. It covers the period until 2014, as mentioned above. It is the Council of State that has ordered this report, and we have to expect a report to be commissioned to look at the results and propose some measures to prevent groups from remaining low-income groups over time. I would like to quote from the report, as some have obviously not quite got what it says: ‘The development after 2001 was relatively stable with small changes in the proportion of persons with persistent low income up to 2011. Thereafter’ — and then until 2014 — ‘there has been a clear increase in the proportion of persons with persistent low income’. I expect that someone each has to ask themselves what went wrong in those years. What's very interesting is to see what groups this report points to as persistent low-income groups. It is not least the least-in-one pensioners, there are some immigrant groups, and there are some families with children. That is why I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has had an impact on increasing pensions for the lone minimum pensioners in the year's budget, and that we have made sure that many children and parents – not least – get a lower parental benefit in kindergarten if they have low income. My question is: Does the Council of State think that this is a report that will help to reduce differences in Norwegian society – now I do not look at the tax system but at the transmission system – and what will the Council of State do with the report and follow up to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e242	Having a good knowledge base is absolutely crucial when designing our policies. What the report shows is – as the representative also says – that inequalities have increased slightly over the years. From 2009 they have increased. What's also important to remember when you look at the measure of income inequality is that you only look at the differences in income. It doesn't measure the impact of politics, and that's what we're concerned about: pursuing a right policy. There are three issues that are important in balancing differences: One is that we have an inclusive working life where we manage to include those who stand far away from work. Let's do that, for example. by having a labour market policy that captures those who find it difficult to get in on their own, through several action areas, through their own rapid track for immigrants, etc., as we are now proposing. The second is that we make sure we have a good school where it's not crucial where you come from, but who manages to lift all students regardless of background. That is why we are also betting on the school in our budgets, together with both the Left and the Christian People's Party. And the third element that is important is that we have a social security network that captures those who need help, it is good health and well-being services, that we have a health system that captures them more closely with mental health problems and drug problems, or that we have good social systems that capture poor families, such as free vacation and leisure services for children, that we are now keeping children's income out of the way by measuring social assistance, and that we have cheap and free childcare facilities for families with low incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e256	All of this helps to reduce inequalities in Norway. It doesn't come out when you just look at the income differences, but it's important to keep up with us when we're going to design our policies, and that's the background for us in our budgets, together with our cooperation parties here on the Storting, to bet on the kind of action that we know has the most impact for those who labor the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e259	I agree with a lot of what the Council of State says. But if one flips it a little bit, we want a line of work. That's what we're working for, and it's what we need; we're looking at the level of employment. We want a good school, and we want to include those that otherwise fall outside. What I want to challenge the Council of State in the budget presented is: What measures for those groups that cannot be expected to enter the labour market will she point to be the most important to ensure that the social security network is intact?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e264	Now I think that most people have the opportunity to contribute a little bit to the world of work. Looking at the reports, we see that the main reason for the rise in income disparities and inequalities is that we have had strong immigration into Norway in recent years. The differences are mainly driven by immigration. But we also see that social mobility in Norway is high. When you get to Norway with two empty hands, your income will increase quite quickly and in a very short time. We are committed to including many of the immigrants who are now coming, through their own fast track for those who are close to the labour market, through improved vocational guidance in reception, by improving the ability to increase the skills of those who come to Norway, including those who are coming to Norway. by ensuring that those who are not admitted to higher education from abroad are now given the right to take secondary education. All of this will help to strengthen more people who are currently out of work. Then, of course, we're also going to make sure that those who can't work have good arrangements to live from, among other things. through the decisions we have taken jointly, not least in the case of pensioners, here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e273	There will be follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e278	To really combat the inequalities, we need to see individuals: children who can't go to football training because they lack shoes or who can't participate in skiing. It hurts them, it hurts a mother and a father, and it hurts all of us. The government's strategy for child poverty is that of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which has the overall responsibility for, but Councillor Hauglie has some of the most important measures. For the number of children in poor families to be reduced, the income of families must be improved, and that is either employment or social benefits. The Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government have worked with this focus in various budgetary negotiations over the past few years. However, the government's draft budget for 2017 does not include a similar contribution for children in low-income families. My question is: is the government satisfied with the government's strategy against child poverty when the strategy expires in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e287	The government has worked extensively with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in Stortingen to reduce child poverty through its own escalation plan and action plan to reduce the differences. It is a plan that involves many departments, and has many elements in it, and is about both good welfare arrangements, about free holiday and leisure arrangements, about free and cheap kindergartens for these families, etc. We're going to continue to target action against families that are struggling, but the most important thing we can do for families who are struggling with poor finances is to make sure that they are more involved in working life, that they get income to live on, and that their children get a good school, so that they do better when they go out to work themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e294	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e299	When the government of the state budget submitted for next year proposes to cut the basic and auxiliary aid, when it cuts in grants to child care, when it cuts in preparation, and when it cuts in aids and gravitational assistance – together cut at 146 million. kr to some of the weakest groups we have in the country – do the Council of State think that the difference is getting smaller or larger?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e304	This budget is a social budget in which we implement and take important steps to get better arrangements for those who are struggling. We are now going to reform the care scheme, a care scheme that many have called for for improvements for many, many years. It is an important measure for those who have sick children. We do more than double the budget of this scheme, and we almost double the number of people entering it. We strengthen functional assistance for those who are in the working life. We reverse the tightening up that the previous government did in interpreting help to deaf blind people, who need to improve and increase the freedom of those who are deaf-blind. We now come with an intensified youth effort for young people under the age of 30 who are unemployed. And we have important measures to integrate refugees faster into working life. I would recommend the representative, Andersen, to read the entire budget and see the totality of what we're doing. Then he'll see that this is a very social budget for those who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e312	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e317	I would first like to thank the Council of State for having made a confession, and that is that increasing differences are driven by immigration. With that, I understand the labour force, that's what's the main reason. The centre party fully agrees, and the problem will strengthen in the future, because the Landsorganisation has now come to the conclusion that this is a dilemma in relation to their yes to the EEA Agreement. The hardest hit are those who have the weakest links with the labour market and with people with disabilities. Compensation of employees is a scheme that both employers and employees’ organisations see as a good instrument in reducing, in these circumstances, differences in income. My question is: Why does the government not put up a strong commitment to wage subsidies – lasting and temporary – to reduce the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e324	To this with inequalities and immigration driven: Yes, it is immigration driven, but I did not say it was labour-driven. In the immigration group, there is also a much larger group than those mentioned by the representative here. There are also refugees and others from parts of the world who have bigger problems and greater challenges of entering the labour market. So this is more nuanced than that. That it's immigration driven also means that it's a result of having an open economy, and that we've accepted many who are coming. I fully agree with the representative that we should use wage subsidies more. It has the greatest effect, and therefore you should also use it more. It is also our clear message to Nav that we want to use it more when they are now getting people out of the labour market. We now see that the use of the grant increases more than it did before, and of course we want it to be used even more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e331	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e336	It is very interesting to read in this report. One thing you can read is that there are fewer and fewer poor retired people in Norway. That's good. Funny enough, though, this group, which is now richer than other groups, is a major effort from the Council of State in the budget for next year, by 1.6 billion. kr for married and cohabiting pensioners. But then you can read about the groups in Norway that are really and actually tired. One of the groups being highlighted is refugees – not EEA immigrants, as the representative Lundt owns just pointed out, but refugees – and not least children with a migrant background, who have a significantly lower income than others and who have major challenges. In the summer, state councils are sending out a number of proposals for tightening up social security schemes to that particular group. Then my question about the facts we now have will affect the work on those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e345	Yes, we sent out a proposal at the hearing in July. The consultation deadline expires on 1 November, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to review both the hearing opinions and to present a case to the Stortinget where this will be debated. The starting point for the proposal we sent out is that it is part of the integration agreement, that is, we want to go through the various welfare systems, the social security systems that are targeting refugees. Today, refugees have some special arrangements that other residents in the country do not have. We've been through them. And we've also gone through the living requirements – that is, what's the condition, the entrance ticket to get some of the lasting benefits. So we're both concerned that we're going to have housing requirements – that is, that we have to have a certain amount of time here to get full access to some benefits – and we're busy reducing the special arrangements for the refugees. But at the same time, we also say to make sure that those who come have an income to live on when you won't get the normal working time that others will get. That's also the background for us wanting to move some of the refugees into an additional social benefit, to make sure that. We will come back to this later when we put a case before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e356	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e361	The bourgeois parties, who have now had a small seminar on poverty, have previously agreed to ‘axe’ the child supplement for disabled dependants. It affects thousands of children. The government itself has estimated that the 367 families that are hardest hit in the current year will receive an average of NOK 29 000 each. It'll get the $8,000 in tax cuts that the Minister of Finance ran off instead, to pale. It throws more families into poverty. And polite recommendations from the Christian People's Party in the Questionnaire on precisely these groups do little to help when you're in the process of adopting budgets where you're adopting more poverty. Does the Council of State have anything to report to these families that is most affected by the government's own cuts, or is she, like the Minister of Finance, going to answer with a fully rehearsed ideological rule on anything other than the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e368	There's cross-political consensus in this room, I see, that you need to strengthen the line of work, and that it's worth working. The size of the population adopted an inappropriate reform to stimulate it, and it has been decided how to calculate the child supplement in order to support it. The importance of the children’s supplement to the working line was also challenged by the previous government, both through the non-preferential and through the Brochmann Committee, which looked at the unfortunate aspects of this. But at the same time, we are committed to strengthening the welfare offer and arrangements for those who are struggling, through cheaper and even free kindergartens for three, four and five-year-olds, through cheap SFOs in selected cities and urban areas, through a good school and early effort to capture the students and through other targeted schemes to assist those who are struggling. So that's the sum of what we do, which you have to look at, and then you'll see that you have a social security network, also for the group that the representative is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e382	On TV 2 Sunday evening we could hear about Laila Furubotn, who works in a kindergarten in Masfjorden. She is volunteering in the fire service, and she had received a daily course to deal with situations of ongoing life-threatening violence. The reason was experience and fear that the police will not come when there is an acute crisis. So then it's babysitting Furubotn, who's volunteer in the fire service, who's going to solve it when there's acute violence in the Masfjord. On the state budget day, a taxi driver in Kongsberg was beaten with a cola bottle in his face. Colleagues then called the police and asked if they could come and help, but the answer was: we don't have the capacity to do that, so you can do it yourself. We could read this summer that there was someone who found a dead person in Høyanger, and the police said, "Can't you send a picture with a cell phone?" In Stavanger, the police could not come because of the threat of violence. In my state we have seen a number of headlines, among others. in Hamar Arbeiderblad: «The case remained untouched with the police for two years». Due to lack of money, they had not been able to hire lawyers. The plan was to hire three lawyers this year, but it couldn't be done because of lack of money. At that time, the person was released from prison. The Minister of Justice is not here, but the Minister of Finance is responsible for funding and allocation to the Norwegian police. We have now seen a crisis around the Norwegian police force and poorer and poorer local preparedness. What will the Minister of Finance answer? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the situation we now see in the Norwegian police, and does she believe that Norwegian police have sufficient funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e392	The President has some doubts as to whether the question is addressed to the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e397	It is for the person responsible for financing, and it is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e402	I'll leave it to the Minister of Finance if she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e407	It is absolutely right that the Minister of Finance has budgetary responsibilities. Although I believe that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, had received a more complete answer by raising the question to the Minister of Justice, I should like to answer more than that, because Battle violence Vedum creates the impression of a police officer who has not been allocated resources under this government. It's as far away from the truth as it's possible to get. So in the 2017 budget, the government is adding 300 million. kr to the police districts to strengthen the staffing where people live. In next year's budget, the government proposes 330 million. kr to hire newly trained policemen. There will be more and not fewer policemen. We are now approaching the target of two officials per 1,000 inhabitants, and there is at least a lot of evidence that we will achieve that goal in 2020. We have given priority to getting funds for new police helicopters to strengthen our preparedness. It is a means of reforming the police. There are ways to improve ICT. There are ways to strengthen prisons. There are ways to strengthen the courts. So that's a fact. I noticed what the police's own trade union said when they took a position on the draft budget for 2017. They were happy. The only fear they now have is that during the budget negotiations, the Storting would be trying to reverse some of the efforts of the government. So yes, I am well pleased that the government is betting on and prioritizing the fight against crime in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e418	What's going to be the strongest thing left after this collapse period is the government's ability to self-confidence, not least when Justice Minister Anders Anundsen used the community's resources to create a showcasing video about himself. The government should – instead of being so preoccupied with boasting of itself – get out and look at reality. Last fall they also said there was going to be a huge increase in the local police force. In the Inland police district, it was said that there would be 27 new posts. So far, zero has been employed. Instead of recruiting new lawyers, they have not been able to recruit new ones, because resources have gone to reorganisation, bureaucracy and internal processes. So we've seen a huge resource cut in connection with the police reform that's been going on, and the police force out there is getting worse. That's the reality of talking to the police community locally. So my question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance satisfied that we have seen a huge growth in the bureaucracy in Oslo, with over 50 pst. more staff in the Police Directorate, and huge growth in the use of consultants? Is it a wise resource use, or should you rather use those resources locally, close to where people live?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e425	I had the pleasure of discussing this issue with the Battle of Vedum in the NRK programme debate on the day the budget was presented. Even then, the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, made the same false claim that this government has prioritised more resources to strengthen the Police Directorate than to manipulate police positions outside where people live. That's wrong! Just to take the numbers: there are 239 permanent members of staff in the Police Directorate, who run a team of 15,500 employees. That's the number. Then I understand that the representative of the Battle of Vedum, in everything he does, wants to create an impression of a government that centralizes. The truth is, the near-police reform is helping to carry out more police years out where people live. That's the right way to prioritize, because it's going to bring down the call-out time. That means that people can get faster help when situations arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e430	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jenny Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e435	The question will, after an example, be addressed in a specific question of money use. The favourite activity of the blue government has been to centralize, and it seems that it is their main goal in the reform of the police. And when they went in to centralize the payroll and accounting functions of the police into a common center, we argued strongly in the Central Party that this new center had to be located outside the central eastern region, and fully support that Kristiansund was finally elected. But we're stowing when it's now set up to build a temporary center in Oslo, with the extra resource use it means. It's hard to understand why the police at one stage are going to find offices and move people and spend money on this when it should be possible to let the police districts continue to handle these tasks until the Kristiansund Centre is up and running. Does the Minister of Finance, like the administrator of the government, think that this is a sensible use of resources and resources in a police force that is in pain with money for police work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e444	The President considers this to be at a level of detail that is quite high, and that it is below the Minister of Justice, but I do not know how the Minister of Finance deals with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e449	Let me answer the question by meeting the claim of centralization. Once again, this is one of the favorite exercises for the Center Party, but it won't be any more true even if the Center Party repeats it every time they get a chance to do it. The truth is that many of the reforms that this government has launched are about improving the efficiency of money use in Norwegian society. It is a matter of allowing the representative’s tax revenue to be used more effectively than it was in the past. This means that if we can find other ways to organise joint tasks, which means that we save and free resources so that we can strengthen service production, strengthen welfare systems, yes, that's a good way to apply tax money. That is why this government intends to continue its efforts to implement reforms. To date, we have implemented a police reform. We are well in the process of implementing a municipal reform. We have carried out important and necessary reforms in the transport sector, an area in which we know that we have used the money incorrectly and got less for every penny we have inserted. There is a poor use of resources, and it is therefore important to implement reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e458	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e464	The Labour Party has great expectations of the final outcome of the police reform: a better police service. And we aroused good dialogue and good cooperation when the final Police Norway was to be realized. Several municipalities now report that the dialogue on police reform has not been good enough. Not listening goes back in this period of government, from the general strike in 2014 to today. In several policy areas, there is little involvement of employees, trust-chosen and non-governmental organisations. Figures from the national administrative database show that the number of employees in POD, the Police Directorate, increased by 17 from 2005 to 2013. From 2013 to 2016, there are 96 more, 16 times that number every year. Now it is going to be exciting to see the calculations regarding the number of police per 1000 inhabitants after the reform has been completed. Less dialogue between the parties and several bureaucrats – is this a direction the Minister of Finance is satisfied with, and is it a goal for the government to continue in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e471	As I said in my first reply to the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, it is wrong when it is claimed that the main effort of this government has been to strengthen the Police Directorate. The biggest effort on the part of the police has been to provide police posts in the districts where people live. That's what the government has prioritised spending money on. But I want to remind the representative that some of the heirs of the red-green government were a lack of follow-up to the Gjørv Commission's report, which was a very serious criticism of the lack of preparedness in Norwegian society. Of course, resources, including those of the Police Directorate, had to be followed up in order to manage, co-operate and coordinate preparedness in Norway. That's what this government has been following up on. But the main priority remains security in the everyday lives of the individual where it lives, and that is why we add more resources to the country so that we can have more police positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e476	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e481	In the context of the police reform, a review of the special agencies, including Ecocrim, was postponed. Riksadvokat Tor-Aksel Busch has been out in the media and said that Ecokrim has had to drop many cases because of lack of finances and instead left these kinds of cases to the local police, who do not have sufficient and necessary competence in the field. Economic crime undermines the ability to provide a good welfare offer to the population — and trust in the public. In 2016, a cross-border analysis and intelligence centre has been established against financial crime, and it is important that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice cooperate in combating this type of crime. What initiatives has the Minister of Finance taken against the Minister of Justice in order to combat financial crime to a greater extent in the future than we have achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e486	I am asking for an understanding that the details of the follow-up to the special bodies must be given the opportunity to reply to the Minister of Justice, not the Minister of Finance. But to the general question of economic crime, I would say that it is a high priority area of action. The government has prioritised resources to combat the crime of working life, and we have launched several projects around the country where different agencies work together, precisely with the aim of speeding up the detection and not least indicting serious financial crime and labour crime. The results are getting pretty good, but this is also a work in which the government has involved the social partners, and it is now starting to produce results. I'm very pleased with that. But we're in no way in the goal. So there's a lot of different tools that have to be used. Of course, it's about the exchange of tax information, it's about inter-departmental cooperation, there's issues related to the provision of silent information, etc. Not all of this is obviously easy to do, but the government is working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e491	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e496	My question goes to the Council of State, Vik Aspaker, who is responsible for European affairs. The government's draft budget for 2017 represents a dramatic cut in Norway's participation in the voluntary programmes of the European Space Agency, ESA – so we are talking about the space organisation ESA. Appropriations are proposed to be reduced by around 70 pst. from 2016 and will therefore result in a sharp decline in Norwegian space research. That the cut will produce negative ring-effects in different research and development environments is obvious to me. We were told that emphatically and probably by several during yesterday's budget hearing in the nutrition committee. In the recordings we have received, it is stressed that the programmes have been and are important in the development of services and industry, as well as research and higher education. I emphasise that space research is an innovative and international activity that also helps Norway to fulfil important national tasks related to sovereignty, maritime surveillance and communication in the north. I also assume that this international research has given Norway access to a great deal of expertise beyond the borders of Norway. This is a resource-intensive research, and I'm going to think that the more countries that contribute, the greater the chance to succeed in good projects. I am convinced that the government's proposal is a mispractice, and the question to the Council of State remains: What will be the impact of reducing ESA investment and accompanying funds on research and industrial development in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e507	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is Monica Mæland, the Minister of Industry, the Constitutional Area. However, I would like to say the following: Norway participates in a number of programmes in cooperation with the EU, based on the fact that we have the EEA Agreement at the bottom. However, from year to year, the priorities of the budget must be quite rigid, against which programmes are to be prioritised. In particular, in a situation like the one we are now, in which there is a need to pave the way for significant efforts towards the South and the West to combat unemployment, priorities have been made in the 2017 budget that make it impossible to continue the same high budgetary level in all other areas of the budget. It must not be interpreted as a signal that this is not still an important area for future priorities, and now the representative refers to one of the programmes on the space side, while it is a fact that we are heavy in other areas. So I cannot agree with the representative of Farstad that this is a down-priority of space, even though we have had to do other priorities in each financial year 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e512	I thank you for the answer, although I'm not very calm. I understand who is responsible for the budget in this, but the question to the European Minister was about the special issues relating to European issues for us in this matter. What I fear is that this signals to our international partners that we are defusing the importance of international cooperation in this area. I have to follow up the question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that we can maintain a space research as good as the one we can achieve in cooperation with our international partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e517	It is a reality that we are giving high priority to cooperation with Europe. It is also a reality that next year's budget will provide additional funds to enable us to compete and to recover more from the research funds related to Horizon 2020. Then, as Mr Farstad has pointed out, there is another priority given how much we spend on space-related projects in Europe next year. It cannot be interpreted as a permanent down-priority, or as an area that does not yet have a significant impact on Norway. We are an important partner, we are part of ESA, we have a lot of companies in Norway that are closely involved, and there is nothing to suggest – although it is being reduced in 2017 – that there are some implications for our cooperation with Europe in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e522	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e528	It sounds very strange to say that we've had to prioritize this down, but that doesn't mean we're prioritizing it down. It's been given priority. This is an important area for Norway, and today we received a report that shows that the efforts we have made over several years really have increased the level and quality of research in Norway. Even so, you sometimes fool yourself, as the government did with Copernicus, which they've then been very glad that the Left fought back into the budgets. Is this such a wish again, that we should come and settle a priority that was not achieved in the budgetary process? These are important research areas for Norway; this is important for creating Norwegian research, development and a new business. Then the government can't say that we had to prioritize it down, but that doesn't mean we're giving it down priority. One of those things has to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e533	The President will stress that this is on the side of the Constitutional Area of the Council of State. She'll have to assess for herself whether she'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e538	I just want to repeat what I have said earlier: although we have a lower level of space and space cooperation with Europe in 2017, it is not an expression that this is still an important area. However, I believe that in different areas of the budget it will be felt that it can vary the degree of priority or rate from year to year. It does not have to be interpreted in any other way than that space-related cooperation with Europe remains important, but we have also had to do some other priorities in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e543	The President will stress the importance of the angle of the follow-up questions that arise so that it is relevant to the Minister of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e548	Then it is most tempting to make a reply to the President: if we cannot ask the EU Minister for EU Programme Follow-up, what can we ask the EU Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e553	That's a lot of things. Odd Omland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e560	Later today, the European Space Agency, ESA, is landing on Mars, and the landing module has been launched from a satellite using Kongsberg technology. This example and many others have resulted in Norway having made a targeted investment in space travel, and which was speeding up during the Stoltenberg government. But what we are seeing now is that this government is shooting this down, and a total industry, as mentioned by Farstad, agreed on yesterday's budget consultation that the proposal for cuts in the budget would have serious consequences. What is the government actually doing? In the 2015 budget, the government proposed that Norway also withdraw from the Copernicus programme, on which Skei Grande was involved. Does the government really have a plan to build up the Norwegian space industry when a cutter so much in different EU programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e567	The government has no plan to build up the Norwegian space industry. The last numbers I saw were that this is an industry that in Norway translates for about 8 billion. kr, so there is an important industry in Norway. This does not mean that the efforts or efforts made against this industry by the government are unaffected by other factors that we must take into account when prioritizing and making budgets. I have shown in the past that we are betting and providing additional funds to enable us to compete and extract more research funding from Horizon 2020. I have shown that we have had special unemployment challenges and have large unemployment packages both in the budget for this year and for 2017, and that is the background to some of the difficult priorities that the government has had to do in its budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e572	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e577	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Now the evidence has come. The government has rigged the tax system for increasing inequality. It's not so surprising, because we've seen over the entire period a government that's been engaged in removing taxes or reducing taxes on what the richest collect their money, wealth and inheritance, while it's carried out insignificant tax cuts on ordinary people's income. But now the Ministry of Finance has been so kind, on questions from SV's big group, to count on the distribution effect of Siv Jensen's first three budgets and tax arrangements there, and the phase is clear: the super-rich are Siv Jensen's tax winners. The top 0.1 pst. among us, 4,200 people, on average, have received NOK 221 000 in the reduced tax of Siv Jensen. The 50 pst. with at least 2,1 million people, on average, received NOK 1 900 in the reduced tax of Siv Jensen. It's grossly unfair. It shows a government that is extreme in its will to make the rich rich richer. Siv Jensen spends money on the richest, common people get little, while poor and sick have to pay for the rich's tax feast through a series of petty cuts in the state budget, and it comes from a party that has had the slogan "For the most people". The progress party should have been notified of a breach of the marketing law. Retirement gets less of a living, with regards to the Advancement Party. Chroniclers in need of physiotherapy get a delicacy that swirls, with regards to the Advancement Party. People who have to quit work get tax returns, with regards to the Advancement Party. Afflicted with children gets less of a living, with regards to the Advancement Party. Billionaires get the tax feast of the times, with regards to the Advance Party. Why is Siv Jensen more concerned with Right-wing electors than with their own?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e590	Let me first say that there are other factors than taxes that affect how we can do something about income differences, inequalities, in Norwegian society. For example, this is a case in point. on how we set up the education system, how we allocate funds to health care, and how we maintain good, safe welfare systems that help to create security in unsafe situations. So it's not the tax system that primarily affects it, but tax financing helps to strengthen our ability to have good welfare schemes that are tax-funded. Therefore, it is important that we have a tax system that contributes to more people paying taxes. Therefore, it is important that we have a tax system that stimulates us to make more people invest in Norwegian business, in new and more jobs. If there is something we need in the situation in the Norwegian economy now, it is that more people dare to invest their money in creating businesses in Norway. We see some positive things happening, I'm glad, but it's wrong when the representative Lightbakken claims that this government, and the Advance Party, has prioritised the super-rich in front of other income groups in the Norwegian community. It's just that it's wrong. A very small proportion of the investment that the government has prioritised in the budget has gone to make changes in the property tax, but I accept every relief. The party of progress, the government parties, has gone to the elections to do something about the property tax simply because it is unfair. The fact that a large majority of the Storting, probably not including SV, agreed that we should come up with an arrangement to postpone the payment of property taxes, is at the top of the whole thing a recognition of how challenging it is now for too many companies in the deficit position to pay property taxes when the option is to shut down the business and send more people into unemployment. That's what I'm against, and that's why I think we need to be able to do several things at the same time: strengthen the welfare systems, focus more on the important things we're busy spending money on, while reducing the tax system to improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e600	It's not wrong that the super rich are the winners. I have that from a calculation from the Ministry of Finance, sent by Siv Jensen to us yesterday. So she can't come one day and say that's the way it is, and give us the numbers, and then stand here today and say that it means nothing, or that it's wrong. The super-rich are the winners of the finance minister's tax policy. So at the other end, ordinary people have been given tax credits so small that they don't notice. The SV's alternative state budget provides much more tax cuts for ordinary income than what Siv Jensen has received in the government. We know from the last period, when we got similar calculations, that the red-green tax policy was redistributive. This increases the differences, and we know that there is a close link between economic inequality and the quality of a society more generally, among other things. the ability to grow. Then the Minister of Finance boasts of the effect of tax cuts. Well, I read in the paper no later than two days ago that her own State Secretary is unable to demonstrate that effect. Has anything happened in the last two days that makes Siv Jensen now able to inform the Storting about these tax cuts has the famous dynamic effect that Siv Jensen boasted in opposition, but is unable to prove in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e607	I'm not in a position to prove dynamic effects. It's just that they don't come until they've implemented the tax relief, they'll come later. The closest reforms we have to assess dynamic impacts are the 1992 tax reform and the relatively large changes made in the tax system back in 2006. The results are quite clear. It has given effect to making tax reliefs and, not least, to spreading the tax system so as to reduce the deductions. That's what's going to work. It has an impact on the job offer. It contributes to more people investing, and of course it makes us get more tax revenue to the country over time. So yes, of course there are dynamic effects. It has also established the tax sample, which investigated the tax reform that the Storting has now adopted. They claimed possible dynamic effects up to 40 pst. In that case, it's very good if we manage to achieve that by reducing the tax burden for most people as well as for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e612	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e617	Rarely do we get a better argument for keeping religion and politics separate than when the Minister of Finance stands here in the Chamber and gives doses of dynamic effects. So there is no limit to the extent of the gap between what the Ministry of Finance in the form of letters can allow itself to say about the so-called dynamic effects, and the ideological interpretations that the Minister of Finance brings here. For the Ministry of Finance, there can be no reference to the effect of their property tax laws. Siv Jensen now says that we have to wait until later, then they come. It would have been tempting to ask what ‘after’ is in this context. But I have another question for the Minister of Finance. It's a simple yes or no question. It's not a long talk about the de-dynamic effects of-on-cut-in-equity issues, but it should be easy for a party leader from the party for people most to answer. Is it good politics for people most to give the richest people in Norway more tax cuts every year than the minimum pensioner has to travel with this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e626	I have a speaking time of 1 minute, so I'm assuming I'm allowed to use that minute to answer the question. I think it's good policy to implement tax relief for ordinary people, for pensioners, for social-securityed people and for business. This government and both government parties have gone to the elections. The fact that we implement our election promises should not surprise the representative Serigstad Valen at all. So it's an honest thing to represent a party that's, in all its work, been concerned with tightening up taxes, but here the representative Serigstad Valen and I disagree. I think it is good for the Norwegian economy with a competitive tax system that helps us get more investment in Norway, rather than outside its borders. It is the most important medicine we can take to ensure that more jobs are created at a time when many feel insecurity as a result of the biggest oil price shock in the Norwegian economy has seen in 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e633	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e638	It is fascinating to see how the Minister of Finance manages to stand and say things in Stortinget when a letter from the Ministry of Finance says something else. This happened when we had an interpellation debate where the Minister of Finance claimed that the differences in Norway did not increase, and I received a response from the Ministry of Finance that, after all, the differences in Norway are increasing. Now it's the distribution, as SV picks up, that gets the same treatment. I want to try with a very specific question, which is only about taxes, which the Minister of Finance is concerned about. A lard miller who works in Larvik and travels again and again every day, has to pay more in taxes than he did before because of the changes in the legislation on commuting. For one who loses the job and gets a termination fee, it is suddenly – after a negotiation night in Stortinget – decided that he would pay more in taxes. What is the real distribution for people most when we know that the numbers SV here have presented to the richest, actually votes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e645	Let me just say briefly that I agree with every letter sent to the Ministry of Finance, including the calculations that have been made in relation to the effect of tax reductions proposed by the government. It must be quite obvious to everyone that those who pay the most taxes in a progressive tax system are actually also experiencing relief when the government proposes it. It's the effect of having a progressive tax system. That being said, this government has, overall, been given reliefs on the other side of 18 billion. kr before the new reliefs proposed for the 2017 budget have been addressed by the Stortinget. It is absolutely right that, within an overall scheme of taxes and taxes, they have been reduced by over 18 billion in total. NOK, some charges have gone up. Other charges have been removed. Some tax rates have changed. It is a consequence of a transformation both of the entire tax system as a whole, and of the fact that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have increased a number of climate and environmental taxes. And it's about praising just what we want less of, and what we want more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e652	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e657	Taxes are important, but also factors other than taxes contribute to security, said the Council of State. And I fully agree with that. Employment and social benefits are important. The country organisation met the Labour and Social Committee yesterday, when they wrote that active counter-cyclical policies have become less effective due to leaks in the form of immigration. – This is an important recognition from the Landsorganisation. My question concerns those who have either physical disabilities, mental or drug problems, and predictability of that group. What will happen in the future to that group of policies of the current government? Will the current government propose that public benefits be reduced or increased — and now we are talking about the level of people — for those with mental, physical or drug problems? What is the government's long-term line, so that it applies, can have predictability of its future life situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e664	Let me just briefly say to the initial remark by the representative Lundteg that it is good that the government's measures on asylum and immigration policy are working. We now see record low inflows to Norway because we quickly got measures in place. That said, some of what this government has prioritised in the area of health, precisely mental health and alcohol — two areas that in no way were adequately prioritised during eight red-green years. These are two areas that the government has pushed ahead and the emphasis should be on priority, priority, precisely because there have been huge gaps to cover, precisely because there are many people who are very vulnerable as a result of either drug problems, mental illness or a combination of these. This government has been busy doing something about it, and we now see that a reinforced effort is beginning to produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e672	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e677	Now there are many different balls in the air, but I want to grab something the finance minister said in his first answer. It was that the goal of the tax system now must be that several of their money bets on creating businesses in Norway. It's a legitimate goal. What's a challenge is that what people are currently investing their money on is not creating businesses, but the housing market. There is an ever-increasing difference, an ever-increasing threshold for entering – which helps create significant differences. When reading the national budget from the Minister of Finance, it is a major concern to identify the consequences it has for the differences in society and for the stability of the economy. The Minister of Finance boasts in the budget that one has streamlined the tax rules a good deal for those who invest in secondary housing. My question is whether the Minister of Finance sees the need to make further tax changes in the future, so that both a person can slow down the growth of housing prices and, not least, ensure that people actually want to invest their money in Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e686	It is quite right that the housing market has been given a place in the mention of the national budget simply because there are significant challenges. My main concern is that households are starting to have significant debt, which can have consequences for particularly vulnerable households if interest rates rise or if you get a housing price drop. I think we have to take that seriously. But I'm not sure if the answer to that is to tax people's homes harder. There will be no more dwellings or cheaper dwellings because it will be more expensive to own their own home. That's why it's not on my agenda to increase the tax on people's housing. What the government has done is to make changes within the wealth tax system, precisely to make it less attractive to invest in property and more attractive to invest in business. There are distortions that we are strengthening in the budget for next year, and I hope the Left will come to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e691	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e697	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Differences between people are increasing under this government. In the previously mentioned inter-pelling debate with the Minister for Finance on 31 May, the Minister for Finance said: ‘First, there are no increasing differences in Norway. I just want to refute that claim." Later, the finance minister had to go back to it in answer to written questions from me. In the debate on the throne now in October, the Prime Minister said: ‘It is therefore not such that it is demonstrated that these differences are increasing.’ But more and more Nordics are dependent on social assistance. Differences in income are increasing, differences in wealth are increasing, Gini coefficients show that differences are increasing and unemployment is high in record terms. All of this is documented by credible agencies such as Nav, the Central Statistical Agency and the Labour Force Survey — even by the Ministry of Finance. The last item is the document mentioned earlier, which was submitted by the Statistical Central Bureau on Monday. In addition to the increased differences in income and wealth, differences are increasing because in recent years the government has introduced new taxes on termination benefits, increased the quarantine period for daily allowances from eight to twelve weeks, cut the pay guarantee scheme, removed the holiday allowance for the unemployed, taxed the commuting allowance, cut the child allowance for the disabled and cut the car allowance for the disabled. None of this can be excused with low oil revenues. It's about the government's own choice. Why does the government think it's right to increase the differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e720	As I have seen in the previous answer, the Gini coefficient does not measure anything other than the income inequality. It does not measure the effect of politics, which is something this hall is concerned about. Our government has strengthened important welfare arrangements for vulnerable groups. We have significantly strengthened the supply of drugs and mental health compared to the previous government. We're going to present an escalating plan for rehabilitation, which is an important commitment for those who are struggling. Important efforts have been made in the area of welfare policy, for example: free kindergarten or reduced kindergarten costs for families with low incomes to mention something. We have also improved holiday and leisure arrangements for low-income families. Then it's not that unemployment is record high. It was higher under the Labour Party regime in the 1990s. But it's too high, we agree. This is why the government in its budgets also strengthens the fight against unemployment through an expansive policy at large, through important transport efforts and efforts to rehabilitate public buildings, through several areas of action for those who become unemployed, which are also largely targeted at those areas and industries that are struggling. Now we see some predictions that show that it's going the right way. Nav reports today that the bottom has been reached, and that it has reached before what was believed. They adjust the unemployment estimate. We see that more companies report optimism in the future. So it goes the right way, but that doesn't mean we're going to lean back. On the contrary, we will continue to ensure that we are able to get more people to work, which is the main difference between those who live in income poverty and those who do not, and that we are able to raise the skills of more people. That is why we are strengthening our efforts to invest in school and to raise our skills. That is why we also need to develop the social security network, which we have done so far in our period of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e731	In all the answers from the Council of State so far today, the Council of State has not been close to answering what she is being asked for, but is talking about something else, and then saying that it is important to see the whole. Then I would like to invite the Council of State to say something about the whole thing. In fact, it is the whole picture of all the statistics and letters from the Ministry of Finance that, overall, we are in a period when differences in Norway are increasing – much because of government proposals adopted by the majority in the United Kingdom. Then my question is, does the Council of State think that the differences are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e738	We live in a country with relatively small differences, and that's good. We're all for that, and we have relatively small differences compared to other countries it's natural to compare with. The representative Andersen and his party traps consider any change to be a cut. The truth is that several of the changes we have made are made to strengthen the offer to those who have the most difficulty. We changed the holiday pay to the unemployed, which the representative was concerned about in his first question, and the truth is that we ensure that you get holiday pay when you are unemployed as opposed to what you got before, when you got your holiday money the following year – when you got to work. It is an important targeting of the action that strengthens the offer to those who need it the most, when they need it. We have important efforts in the health sector to capture those who are struggling with drugs and mental health. We have important efforts in the education sector to raise the quality of school provision and also the supply of adults who need skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e747	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e752	The SSB report has been ordered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There is the 12th report in the series, and it gives an overall overview of developments. Differences are increasing, and there are many low incomes that have weak professional links that are most severely affected. There are people who need society's security. What's the situation when the government says that it's not age-wise that the differences are increasing? Both the State Councils of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs say that and the Prime Minister says it – it is not eelreit. Yet it happens. What's wrong? Has the government analyzed where the error is? We have to believe what's being said, that someone wants to reduce the differences, but that's not what's happening. Where is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e759	As I have seen in previous answers, one of the main reasons why the differences are increasing is that we have had large immigration to Norway in recent years. Immigrants, for whom the representative is involved, are also refugees and asylum seekers who have come to Norway. We have an open economy, and many have come to Norway. We see that those who come to Norway have few formal qualifications. They lack language, and then they also take time to get into the labour market. There is also the background to the fact that, in this budget, we are strengthening the work on a rapid track into the labour market for immigrants, that we are already applying vocational guidance, that Nav is starting earlier than before to identify those who come to Norway, to ensure that they get into the labour market more quickly. The sooner we settle for the refugees and get them into the world of work, the more likely they are to be able to stand on their own, and that they come out of the statistics that we want them out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e767	Ragnar Frimann Nordgreen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e772	There, state councillor Hauglie said in his first sentence ‘the differences are increasing’. Otherwise, the government will not accept the obvious increase in the differences between the poor and the rich – and it will not at all recognise why they are increasing, namely the government’s tax relief policy – with most of the wealthiest. The government's policy is well-being, not least for vulnerable groups. Cut policy, which, together with oil money consumption at the expense of our grandchildren, must now be used to finance the taxes on the well-off. Had the government wanted to fight the differences, it must first have recognized the differences. Will the government combat the increased disparities? If the answer is yes, I have a warning to the government: if you don't want to know where you are and how you got there, then you'll never find the way from here and where you want to go. Where does the government go to less differences in society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e781	Increasing inequality is not the result of taxation – it is due to a lack of links with the labour market, due to a lack of skills and basic skills. This is why there is inequality in Norway. There are many immigrants coming to Norway who come from war and persecution in poorer parts of the world, seeking a port of refuge in Norway, and who come with two empty hands. That is also the background for, among other things, In this budget, the number of action places in Nav is increasing, Norwegian training can be taken as a measure in Nav, the establishment of a fast track into the labour market, the provision of vocational guidance and previous monitoring in reception – because more of those coming to Norway are to be obtained more quickly into work, thus reducing inequalities. Then there is the education policy that is the long-term approach, but frankly – we need to know what is the cause before we... yes – thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e788	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e802	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this respect. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care. At the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the question is moved and answered before question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 2, from the representative of Audun Otterstad to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, the question is moved and answered before question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative Ketil Kjeseth to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 9, by Kari Henriksen, representative of the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e827	Question 1 will be answered before question 7. The first question to be answered is question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e835	This question, from Audun Otterstad to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e840	‘Two weeks ago, a Norwegian woman was refused entry into Palestine, deprived of her own passport and put on smooth cell for 19 hours before she was sent out of Israel. She was supposed to do field work in connection with her master's degree at NTNU. It's only one month since another Norwegian woman was also denied access to Palestine at the Ben Gurion airport by Israeli authorities. She was assigned to exchange from NTNU to Birzeit University at Ramallah. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about this practice, and is there a new policy from Israel towards Norwegian students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e853	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is aware of these two issues the representative refers to in his question. I have a great deal of understanding that this has been an impression for those involved, and that being denied entry has significant consequences. The Norwegian Embassy in Tel Aviv bisto both women and had contact with the Israeli authorities in matters. However, as students enter the West Bank via Israel, they have to deal with Israeli entry control and other Israeli laws and regulations. It is common practice for visitors on entry and exit to be asked by Israeli immigration authorities and security personnel about their stay in Israel. It is up to the Israeli authorities to decide who is given permission to enter Israel. On the travel information pages of the Government of Israel, it is advisable to answer truthfully all the questions. Experience has shown that entry can be refused if the Israeli authorities are not perceived as sufficiently cooperative. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following up and is in constant contact with the Israeli authorities on how these entry rules are practised. Although we have noted that there have also recently been several cases where Norwegian citizens have been refused entry, in our contact with the Israeli authorities there is no information that laws, regulations or practices have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e864	Governments talk about ‘common practice’ on entry and, as is known, it varies, and it also varies from person to time and what is considered to be a risk from the current situation. But one thing that hasn't changed is the continuation of government engagement, the donor exposure to Palestine. My concern is that Israeli authorities are deliberately obstructing international relations and internationalisation of Birzeit, the universities and academic freedom in Palestine. Is the Council of State concerned about the situation in the Middle East and does she believe that internationalisation contributes to more democracy and constructiveity in relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e869	We have no basis for saying that Israel wants to prevent academic freedom or internationalisation related to students and student exchanges. From the U.D., we have advised NTNU to contact the Embassy of Israel in Norway, and we know that there is a dialogue to avoid in the future that students who have exchange agreements with universities in the West Bank, which in this case, will not be able to complete their studies. So we just notice that there are no changes that we are familiar with related to Israeli laws and practices. But it's important to stress that you're correct in your information about what to do when you travel through Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e876	Of course, it is important to inform enough and be truthful, and I assume that Norwegian students are. However, it is a rather special, passive attitude when you see young people in Norwegian who are in exchange being treated – after having had approved studies in Norway and approved exchange studies from there. What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to do about this — do you think it's okay that Norwegian students are treated this way when you exchange? And what does the ministry think about just a few months ago being at the same institution in Israel to expand academic cooperation: Isn't it important to have academic cooperation with both Israel and Palestine to contribute to a constructive tone and to contribute to the long-term process of peace?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e883	I understand that it has been a difficult experience, and that it has caused problems for the students who have been refused entry. On the other hand, there are other students who have been admitted and who use the exchange agreement with NTNU with this University of the West Bank. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in fact aware that a Palestinian university on its websites states that Israeli authorities rarely grant residence permits to study, and implicitly suggests that reasons for entering should be given other than what might be the real reason. I think it is important to take the entry rules seriously. If you're to be taken seriously when you get there, and if you're to be treated correctly, it's at least important that you be honest about what kind of honor you have when you're going to go into Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e890	Question 3 has been moved and will be answered before question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e902	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e910	‘An overall opposition made it possible in the spring to gather on an offensive gender equality policy where the government in the gender equality message did not have measures to bring gender equality forward. Of the more than 80 proposals we have made, 14 were adopted and must now be followed up by the government. Among the proposals adopted were, inter alia, the proposal on gender equality assessment of the State budget. Why has this not been followed up with the 2017 budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e917	The government is focusing on pursuing an offensive and holistic gender equality policy. This is why a Communication on gender equality was promoted to the United Kingdom last year, which focused on a number of societal areas where efforts are still needed in several sectors. SSB figures show a positive trend towards more equality. Gender differences in management positions, income and part-time work are the lowest since 2008. Nevertheless, after decades of gender equality policy, there are still challenges. The reality of the Stortinget decision on 14 April this year was the unanimous adoption by the Government of the notification of the decision with 72 measures and 14 additional proposals from the Stortinget. I want to assure the Storting that these proposals are well-informed by the government to follow up. The government has also chosen to step up efforts in areas we believe have a particular impact on gender equality: violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health, business and entrepreneurship. The Bondevik II Government gave annual equality assessments in the State budget. Equality assessments were part of a Nordic cooperation project on gender and gender mainstreaming in budgetary work. Before the end of 2005, the Bondevik Government also presented a thematic equality annex to the State budget on the allocation of financial resources between men and women. In the eight-year history of the Stoltenberg II government, two equality annexes to the State budget were presented, in the 2008 and 2009 budget. With regard to the very question from the representative of Trettebergstuen, I assume that the representative is well aware of the timing of a budgetary process. A thorough equality assessment of the entire state budget requires close and good cooperation and coordination with the relevant department. It is a time-consuming process, and therefore, at the government's discretion, there was too little time to develop it in a complete way, as the Stortinget has asked. We will therefore present an overall gender equality assessment in the state budget for 2018. I have also informed Stortinget that in the spring of 2017, I will come to Stortinget with a briefing on the gender equality work as requested by Stortinget, which was last done in 1999 by the Minister for Children and Family at the time Valgerd Svarstad Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e938	I find it strange that in six months you can't say anything about the gender impact of the state budget as a whole. This is important, because although this government has not taken a single equality policy initiative that is going to lead equality further, it is the whole of the policy that says something about which direction we are going. This government's tax policy benefits older men. The distribution policy has turned its head around. It fails single mothers in social security, there is a lack of intervention against involuntary part-time, cuts in paperwork, cuts in organisations working with equality, cuts in LDO and the centres – yes, there is less and no more equality between the policies of this government. Everyone can see that with half an eye. Does the Council of State consider that the 14 measures for increasing equality adopted by the opposition in the context of the notification are good measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e945	The government shares the intention in many of the proposals that came from the opposition and were adopted here at the Stortinget in April. We believe that the 14 measures – in addition to the more than 70 measures in the Single European Act – that we are doing well now are also involved and move on to equality. The government is well-informed to follow up the Stortingen proposals and will return to Stortingen in an appropriate manner and inform about that work. This is a work that takes place in many sectors. It takes place in the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and the intention is something we share. I am also very pleased that the Storting is very clear that with regard to the challenges we face in violence and abuse, in education and in a sex-shared labour market, there are measures in the gender equality message that the government has promoted to move this forward. I do not share the representative's view regarding the suggestion that equality has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e954	This response from the Council of State is a bit symptomatic of the views of the Right and Advance Party representatives and this government on equality. It doesn't keep sharing intention. Nor does it hold to deliver a message that outlines the challenges we face, but it does not come up with a single measure that can do anything about it when, at the same time, in the whole policy, equality is put in reverse. It's not just the Workers' Party that means – most of those who can crawl and walk who are concerned with equality, agree with us. Does the Council of State feel that it is a bit embarrassing to be forced on equality policy by the opposition and not deliver itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e961	As the responsible state council in this field, I am proud of the gender equality message that the government presented last year, which was adopted in Stortinget. It unanimously adopted over 72 proposals to promote equality. I'm glad we see that the gender differences are the lowest since 2008. The proportion of children in kindergartens has increased – it has not fallen, as the representative points out. The increase in the proportion of female professors still has, there are stable numbers of women in government, we have a lower proportion of women working part-time. The 72 proposals adopted by a unanimous majority and promoted by the government in the Single European Act are proposals that will draw equality in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e971	‘In connection with the treatment of the equality notification, the Stortinget adopted a decision asking the Government to establish its own tripartite cooperation for increased equality with the social partners. Can the Council of State explain the work of the Government on the follow-up to this Decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e978	The government wants an inclusive working life where equality and diversity are at the heart of it. The government has put the spotlight on challenges and, through the gender equality message, has introduced several measures that contribute to increasing equality. We need the social partners with us in that work. Therefore, the ongoing cooperation we have with the social organisations is important. Good cooperation arenas between the authorities and the social partners are based on a solid tradition in Norwegian working life and politics. Labour and pension policy councils are a permanent meeting venue between the government and the eight main social organisations. In addition, a working group on equal opportunities is established in the labour market. This is part of the tripartite cooperation. This group is anchored in the Labour Market Policy Council. The Working Party is chaired by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where the parties discuss important gender issues that they can later address in the Council. This well-organised cooperation helps promote equality between women and men in the labour market. So there is today a well-functioning cooperation with the social partners on gender equality. By raising gender equality in meetings with the social partners, the government makes it clear that equality is important to address, in line with other key issues in the world of work. We have started to follow-up the Grand Duchy's request decisions on tripartite cooperation for increased equality with the social partners. In the Working Party on Gender Equality, we have discussed how we can work more effectively for increasing gender equality and how today's cooperation can be further developed. This will also be addressed at the November Employment and Pension Policy Council, where equality is on the agenda. I will then come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with how the government will follow up the request decision that the Stortinget has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e989	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It almost sounds like this is a work that has been going on for a long time, and it might be interesting to hear with the council if she believes that the request decision, which a majority on the Stortinget is standing behind, was unnecessary. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it really wasn't, because we see that there are huge pay differences between women and men in working life, and that therefore it is absolutely necessary that a job be started. The council says that she will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should design demands for a timetable for the social partners in order to correct pay discrimination between women and men, so that pay differentials are reduced and gradually eliminated, and give the proposed tripartite programme for gender equality to work on this. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e998	Let me first start by sharing the representative's commitment that we need close and good cooperation with the employment organisations and the social partners if we're to move on in the field of equal opportunities. This Council has been in place since 2004, when the Bondevik II Government established this Cooperation Forum. In 2008, the scope of the Council was developed to cover pension policy issues and changed the names of the Labour Market Policy Council. The Working Party on Equal Opportunities for the Council was set up from 2014. It would be natural for us to discuss with the parties what topics are relevant for them to discuss and which they believe in cooperation with the authorities and the employment organisations to be involved and contribute to the progress of gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1003	Thanks for the answer. If this Council has existed since 2004, I must say that it is rather disappointing that there has been no more progress in terms of gender equality policy and not least in terms of equal pay for equal work. But I hope that the government will now follow up this request decision, and that a timetable will be set for this. A slightly open question: in addition to this, what does the Council of State see as the fastest and best way to achieve the goal of equal pay? Is there any other measure that the Council of State sees that one could also have put into practice? The Christian People's Party has called for an equal pay pot. Is there anything the Council of State could look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1010	To answer the question, it is also very much up to the social partners to discuss pay. It is natural that this will also be raised as a theme in the meetings we have with the social partners when we have equality on the agenda. I am aware that the proposal put forward here by the representative was voted down in Stortinget. It is important when we discuss equality in employment with the social partners, that the social partners are aware of the role they have, and that the pay and working conditions, for example, are in place. discrimination in the workplace, is also lifted in the work of the parties. So this is a advice that has existed. The request decision states that the Stortinget asks the government to establish its own tripartite cooperation. It is already a well-functioning tripartite cooperation today, but we will come back to how this can be further developed and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1017	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1025	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1030	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Health the following questions, as it was today: «After the Scandinavian Star fire in 1990, Erik Dørk Andersen was appointed a police perpetrator and in St.meld. No 63 for 1991-92: ‘It is considered presumptuously likely that the fire was incited by a passenger who himself died’, cf. page 1, on page 14, he is identified. At the Scandinavian Star press conference on 9 August, the police in Oslo said that they “will stress that there is no evidence either then or now to designate him as a perpetrator”. Will the government, after this, lament Andersen's family?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1039	The question is originally addressed to the Prime Minister, but it is decided that the Minister of Justice and Emergency Response will respond on behalf of the Government, and I will respond on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Preparedness. The fire on the passenger ship Scandinavian Star occurred night until Saturday, April 7, 1990. On the same day, the attorney general decided that the Oslo Police Chamber would conduct a necessary police investigation in connection with the fire. After an extensive investigation, the national lawyer filed the case by an endorsement of 11 March 1991. There it was, among others.\t\t You can change the «The investigation has revealed that only one person can be suspected of the fire strike, namely Danish national., f. 030852. died in the fire, and it is not possible to proceed in the investigation against him. Therefore, in relation to the fire set-up, the matter is to be decided upon in accordance with the position of the certificate.» This can be seen on page 14 of St.meld. No 63 for 1991-1992 on the fire accident on the Scandinavian Star passenger ferry. In the introductory part of the same gross message: ‘The fires are considered to be presumptuously likely to be incited by a passenger who himself died.’ As it is clear from what I have reproduced from the Storing Message, the Danish citizen is not identified in this document in addition to the fact that his date of birth is included. He's not named. The Oslo Police Commissioner recommended in June 2014 that parts of the Scandinavian Star case be resumed with limited investigation. After the investigation, the police failed again, this time referring to a lack of evidence. This appeal decision has been appealed in such a way that the final appeal decision is not yet available. The handling of individual cases in the criminal field is governed by the prosecution authority, which is chaired by the National Attorney. In dealing with individual cases, the prosecution authority cannot be instructed by political authorities. State councils should therefore refrain from any opinion that might be perceived as the position in or the assessment of prosecution issues in individual cases. This applies not least to the absence of a final appeal decision. If, in dealing with the complaint of the new order decision, the prosecution authority changes the view of the Danish citizen on the matter, I assume that his status in the case changes according to good prosecution practice. As can be seen from what I said at the outset, the notification of the cancellation showed to the Riksadvokat's prosecution decision in 1991. This was probably not a position on the charge question, but it appears as a reference to what was available at that time from information on the outcome of police investigations. The Supreme Court shall, in December, examine the question whether the Danish widow and her son may apply for a hearing for the waiver of the suspicion of the deceased, cf. Article 241 of the Criminal Procedures Act. The General Court and the Lawyers' Court have concluded that, under this provision, the court is the sole suspect, not the survivor. The widow has therefore not received any support. The appeals committee of the Supreme Court has decided that the case should be dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1069	I thank you for your answer. The new thing is that on 9 August, a final police report came after a thorough review of the investigation in this case over a year and a half, concluding as clearly as I quoted. In St.meld. No 63 for 1991-1992, it is, in fact, actively stated in the government’s own text: ‘The fires are considered to be presumptuously likely to be instigated’, etc. And the person who must have incited the fire is indicated later in the communication with the date of birth, «Danish citizen., f. 030852.. perished in the fire’, which is mentioned in the media repeatedly, so there is no doubt that he was actually identified. It is important for us in Norway to show that we are a legal state that also takes the consequences when it is established that mistakes have been made towards people. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify more precisely what is in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1076	Yes, and an important part of being a rule of law is also having a very clear distinction between political authorities and prosecutors and courts. I have also explained that in my original answer. I believe, on the basis of what I have explained, that it is not natural to make a specific public complaint in such a case. I also feel that Stortinget has actually set up an investigation commission which by 1 June 2017, among others. shall assess whether the facts set out during previous treatment by the Storting, including: in St.meld. No 63 for 1991-1992, to which reference is made, gives a correct and adequate picture of the case. There is also reason to note that the main message referred to in the question was provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 19 June 1992. It was under Gro Harlem Brundtland's third government. At the time of the presentation, Thorvald Stoltenberg was Minister for Foreign Affairs and Kari Gesteby was Minister for Justice – both from the author’s own party. These are, of course, free to express how they today assess the presentation given in their 1992 survey report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1083	Thank you again for your answer. My point is that the big message does not clearly distinguish between the role of the Court and the role of the legislative authority – that is, the role of the Grand Duchy – and the role of the government, because it says in its own text, on page 1: ‘The fires are considered to be presumptuously likely to be incited by a passenger’, etc. If you'd just quoted the Riksadvokat later in text, it's something else than actively on page 1 drawing such a conclusion. At that time, it did not distinguish well enough between what the judicial authority — the judiciary — does and what is the role of the Storting and the government. So that's the division that we could get ready now. As far as the investigation commission here at Stortinget is concerned, it is not about the investigation. It concerns the handling of the case by the authorities. The investigation is dealt with in the report that came.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1097	That's right. The question is also about now giving a political regret for something that was in a political document, and I have answered what the government's view of it is. When the police investigated the Scandinavian Star fire, it was part of the handling of an individual case in criminal matters. Political authorities may not instruct in the handling of individual cases in this area. It is neither right nor natural for a political representative to complain about something that has happened in connection with an investigation conducted by an independent prosecution authority. If one is to make a political assessment of what is in the big message, it is close to the fact that it is the state councils that were responsible at the time, which might have to assess it, based on the situation of the day, or the Storting can of course do what they want in dealing with their case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1109	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1117	«The hospital strike is referred to by many as a total trust crisis. Forced payroll does not solve this fundamental problem. Conflict and conflict affect the working environment and are a threat to patient safety in our hospitals. In a recent national study, the Health Directorate has identified poor cooperation climates in very many Norwegian hospitals and hospital wards. There is therefore a need for action. What will the government do to resolve the crisis of trust that results from the conflict?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1124	A work conflict and its impact can often be demanding. I see that there is a challenging situation with strong opinions and opinions. On behalf of the patients, I am pleased that the hospitals are now in operation again. It is now important that hospital managers and staff contribute to good and constructive cooperation. The national salary earner shall decide on the content of the new collective bargaining agreement. The parties are the Academics and Specter. On the basis of the rules of the labour market, I cannot act as Minister of Health and Welfare in a way that can be seen as an attempt to influence the Rikswohnsnenne. I want to strengthen trust between managers and employees in hospitals. We need a working environment in hospitals that is characterized by transparency, quality, security and respect. There shall be a good reporting culture that contributes to the development, learning and good patient safety, and a high ceiling for involvement, debate and expression. I have the overall responsibility for the hospitals. Management, working environment, trust and patient safety are issues that I take most seriously. That is why I have asked for an increased effort from hospitals in terms of working environment and patient safety. At the business meeting on 12 January, I asked regional health companies ‘to continue working to improve patient safety and to see this in the context of health, environmental and safety work’. At the board seminar for the health regions on 16 February and in the letter of 16 March, I made this further concrete. Regional health enterprises briefed on the work of a joint follow-up meeting on 22 June and in the follow-up meeting to be held on 25 October, management training and leadership support to facilitate transparency and dialogue in hospitals are an important topic. In this context, it is also necessary to provide information on the plans and measures taken by health regions to re-enter patient treatment followed by the strike. The results of the patient safety programme in safe hands in 2014 show that at least 44 pst. treatment units in hospitals have a working environment that increases the risk of adverse events. I have asked the health regions to use this knowledge in their improvement work. A new screening of the patient safety culture shall be carried out in 2017. As I said earlier, next week, health regions will provide a briefing on how they have complied with the requirements I have set so far. I will then decide whether there is a need to impose further requirements on new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1139	Thanks for the answer. I understand that the Council of States cannot enter into the strike or the labour conflict, but this is not any labour conflict. One can solve the strike with forced pay, but the trust crisis, as this is described as, cannot be resolved by coercion. This is not about money, but about the principle – of requiring influence on their working hours, on watch regimes and on the length of their working hours. My question is whether the Council of State can generally say that he thinks that working time is an individual matter, or that he wants to work for a health service where working time is regulated by law or regulation, so that health workers are guaranteed collective protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1146	Of course, hospital working hours, as in all other sectors of Norway, are regulated by law, regulation and collective bargaining. That's exactly what you've chosen as the Norwegian model. So one has some frames that the Storing and the Government decide. So one also says that one has organisations, and that depends on the size and degree of organisation of the organisation. Its stronger organisations on the labour side are, the greater the possibility of a collective agreement to agree other rules within, and exceptions related to, law and regulation. It is very important that there is a question just between these parties, because if one of the political authorities, in addition to the law and regulation, were to also enter into the leadership and interfere in the negotiation of the tariff agreement, we would have destroyed what I think we all experience as an important part of the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1151	Thank you for that. This conflict, which is widely described as having a background in a crisis of confidence in the health care system, has led to the hospital strike that has been the longest in our hospitals ever. He's got a whole employee page, not just legging. Hospitals are knowledge companies that depend entirely on one having confidence in the services. If the way health services are rented — missing local rentals, e.g. – a lack of trust between those who work there and the people who work there over time is something that the Minister of Health should also be concerned about. In the answer he referred to patient safety work in openness culture, that's good. But besides that, what will the Council of State do to ensure that there is greater trust between those who work and the Norwegian hospital rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1156	As the questioner suggests in his question, and as I also draw up in my answer, it is not that this discussion has occurred during and after this conflict, but there has been a topic that has been up to discussion over time. That's also one of the reasons why, long before it was known that there was going to be a conflict related to this year's tariff settlement, I gave a concrete mission to the health regions in this area, because I believe that we have – and it shows the patient safety work and the study – a challenge related to the transparency, culture and management of our hospitals. It's a challenge that I highly acknowledge, and that's why I've started a work on it. I also feel that the representative is concerned about this issue – in the same way that I am. It is, of course, demanding now that we are still formally in a conflict situation, to cope with the long-term challenge. And I will – without being perceived as interfering with something that is a legitimate conflict between two social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1164	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1169	‘The justice sector is far from equality goals the Council of State says it will now, and the situation for women in prison is serious. While male prisoners are credited with several million dollars a year for housing in the Netherlands, the budgets for prisoners in Norway are suffocated and female inmates are affected. The Workers' Party compensated Bredtveit for the so-called ABE reform in the 2016 budget and has followed up several of the points in the report on women's housing conditions. What will the Council of State do to improve the compensation for women in prison?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1176	I would like to begin by thanking the representative Kari Henriksen for once again addressing an important issue in Norwegian criminal justice. I fully agree that the reconciliation of women is an important topic. Women and men shall be subject to equivalent conditions during the criminal proceedings and women shall be entitled to an organised equal offer with men. The representative of Henriksen has also argued in the past that male prisoners will be compensated for several million years in the Netherlands and that this affects female prisoners. This must be due to a manifest misunderstanding. The sites we rent in the Netherlands provide better access to accommodation in Norway. This is precisely what frees women's places in separate departments and improves the organisation of women's shelters. If we had had a stronger pressure on the settlement sites we have in Norway, the conditions for women would not be better — rather, on the contrary. What we have achieved in prisons in the Netherlands is that the pressure in Norwegian prisons is dramatically reduced. The pay queue has been reduced from over 1,200 judges when the government took over, to 334 judges at the beginning of October, overtime in police detention has been significantly reduced, the pay queue for women is much shorter, and we have a more effective criminal execution. A lower pressure on settlement sites in Norway has contributed to the fact that we in this government have done a lot to improve the conditions for female prisoners. We've already turned Kragerø prison into a woman's own prison, and we're following up on turning department G of Kongswinger prison into a women's ward from New Year's. By setting up own prisons or separate prison departments for women, it will be easier to accommodate the needs of women. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is working on a women’s soning strategy to be implemented during the year. The Ministry will follow up the measures when the strategy is available. The government has also proposed to reorganise criminal services from today's three levels to two levels, without regions. I am engaged in an organisation that facilitates the follow-up of women prisoners and sentences on specific challenges and needs. The government has therefore proposed the establishment of a special unit with specific responsibility for the provision of compensation to women throughout the country. This unit will have special competence in this group of prisoners, including: in the fields of health, education, work and not least child care. This proposal is now under discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1191	Thank you for that, and thank you for the answer. I agree that some things have been done, but I cannot understand the argument that an exchange of places necessarily leads to better quality. What we see as the result in Norwegian criminal justice, in the Netherlands it seems to work better, is that the number of rapes and threats is increasing, there is a greater degree of insecurity, staff complaints – on serious incidents, which are also reported. What I read from the budget is that in the justice budget, it is not mentioned in one word in the bet areas that women should get better. It is mentioned in the budget proposal – yes, and it is good, but there is no mention of women being a special bet when it comes to the budget. So now I can ask the Minister of Health if he has put some money into his budget that is earmarked for women in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1196	I believe that what I answered the original question from the representative shows that the contradiction that the representative is trying to draw between buying settlements in the Netherlands and the situation of women is a designed contradiction. In fact, it will have the opposite effect – it is quite obvious that the reduction in the pressure on Norwegian settlement sites has allowed for the kind of improvements in the settlement conditions for women that I explained, both with the offer at Kragerø prison and in Section G of Kongsvinger prison. If the Minister of Justice thought that the situation for Norwegian women in prison was good enough, I would have understood the criticism, but that is the opposite. That's why one has asked to create one's own women's soning strategy, which will be available during the year, and that the government in the matter that we are dealing with in Stortinget has proposed to set up a special unit with special responsibility for the provision of compensation to women throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1201	Now we're sending out 21 million. kr only as a currency correction that goes to nothing, really, and it is from the budget to the criminal justice system. The point is that when fewer women are also in prison wards, they actually get a reduced offer because it becomes more difficult to get logistics to go together. When you're going to choose between getting ten men to an activity and one woman, with the same number of employees, it's often the women who get lost in terms of rehabilitation, and that's my point. The same applies to healthcare. I can only end by saying – since it's a stand-in state council – that I would urge the Minister of Health to speak well with the Minister of Justice to raise measures for women in prison in terms of both health and rehabilitation, because there is something these women need. It is true that this is not something that has happened now, but it can be improved, and then the government is in position to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1208	I can assure the representative that there is another Council of State with which I have a close and close cooperation on all matters that lie between the health field and the justice field, and that is precisely the Minister of Justice. We have regular follow-up meetings and resolve matters between us continuously. So I agree that it's a point to have common charity for women just to be able to give women a better content in the settlement, and that's why one has established Kragerø prison as a separate women's prison and is now also being made a separate department at Kongswinger prison into a women's ward, just to be able to give a better organized offer. But this is not enough, and therefore there will also be a separate special unit for this in the new organization and created a separate strategy. So we fully agree that we still have challenges related to the reconciliation of women, but this government and the Minister of Justice have really taken this on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1225	This question has been drawn. So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1235	This question, from Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1240	The question addressed to the Minister for the Environment and to be answered by the Minister for Knowledge is as follows: ‘When Norway adopted the EU directive, an estimate of the cost was made where we now have a lag of 300 million kroner and one year of planned work. The size decided unanimously to include the Water Directive and the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the financing needs and the financing estimated in the Government’s proposal. How will the government achieve the objectives of the EU Water Directive without providing the necessary funds for local work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1249	The water management plans for 2016-2021 were approved by the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 1 July 2016. Environmental objectives have been set for all rivers, lakes, coastal waters and groundwater in Norway. The plans result from many years of work carried out in the eleven water regions. Environmental improvement measures are now to be implemented in a number of areas. In general, the implementation of concrete environmental improvement measures shall be covered in line with the polluter pays principle. The costs of environmental improvement measures for municipalities shall normally be covered by municipal water and sewerage charges. Appropriations for water environmental work over the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment over the last nine years, from 2008 to 2016, amount to a total of more than 550 million. kr. The allocation of such measures has increased by 58 million. kr for the period 2015-2016. Much of the good work in the now approved water management plans has been done by the local level in the so-called water areas. Part of the budget appropriations have been allocated to this level in order to strengthen participation and influence on the levelling work. In 2017, the Government will mainly continue this practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1260	I thank you for your answer, but I note that the financing plan set out in the Stortingen for the implementation of the water regulation has not been followed up. According to KS, today there is an accumulated deficit of approximately 360 million. kr related to this job, and I can also confirm that I have been registered from the water regions every year throughout this period. I can also show that the state, as the Council of State points out, has approved the water-region plans. This implementation requires increased State effort, but is therefore not part of the State budget. So, with state-approved water region plans and measures to be implemented, will the government present a new funding plan for the water region plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1269	What are the future plans of the government, the Minister for Climate and Environment may have to come back to. Regarding the question from the representative Rasmus Hansson about what has been done, I explained it in my answer. There are two elements in that answer. One is that here, too, we use a polluter-pays principle. We know that municipalities will have costs with what is a strong uplift for the water environment in Norway, but it will normally have to be covered by municipal water and sewerage taxes. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has a budget that has increased sharply over the past nine years. Today it amounts to 550 million. kr. Action appropriations have increased by 58 million. kr in the period 2015–2016 and is mainly passed on to next year, so based on it it would not be right to say that there is no government money here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1278	Well, I think it's right to point out that the financial plan that has been adopted is actually not visibly followed up in the state budget. As the Council of State itself pointed out, it has been decided to achieve good environmental status in both water and watercourses and fjords and coastal waters by 2021. This shall be a comprehensive management and it shall follow new administrative boundaries covering the river basins. The question will then be: can the Council of State, with the actual financing situation, on behalf of the Environment Council and the Government, guarantee that all Norwegian waters and watercourses and fjords and coastal waters will have achieved good environmental status by 2021, which is the purpose of the water regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1285	With today’s level of funding, today’s lag will be achieved during 2019. Then we also have measures to achieve environmental objectives that will be operational by the end of 2018. Sectoral authorities are obliged to assess all proposed actions and to select those that produce the best results. I believe that the process that is under way will lead to that goal. So it's, as I said in my first answer post, also here, so that we use a polluter pays principle. Nevertheless, we also grant something extra to specific themes, such as: cryogenic, river moss, river conservation and agricultural pilot projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1295	I would like to ask the Council of State to answer a question: ‘I see the Inn. 228 S for 2015-2016, Decision 604; ‘The Government asks the government to design and introduce credits for boys and girls applying for lines in secondary schools where there is, for example, 80 per cent or more of the opposite sex, and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ What plan does the Council of State have for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1304	I appreciate the question. It's quite right, what's premeditated here, that Norwegian boys and girls choose to a great extent gender traditional in their educational and professional choices. Guys, for example, choose: to a greater extent vocational training programmes, girls to a greater extent specialisation in studies. We saw again that boys chose much more construction and electrical engineering, while girls chose health and education and design and crafts. The large majority are granted their first choice when applying for the input to Vg1. The reason for uneven gender sharing among some educational programmes is primarily the students’ search pattern. A system of quotas is therefore likely to have a limited impact on the spread of gender, but of course it can have some effect, so I will not exclude that the rules on admission to higher education can contribute to a better gender balance in different disciplines. National rules on admission to higher education will break the line of thought underpinned by the current rules on admission, where the county dimension and the applicants are ranked by point. That means that, as the Stortinget has also asked, we have to spend some time investigating, and that has to be done thoroughly. In cooperation with the Education Directorate, we will explore how admission rules can contribute to a better gender balance in higher education, and we will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. The concrete order to the Education Directorate will be made in these days – not today, but in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1313	I would like to thank you for your answer. First of all, I have to say that it can't be very difficult, because it has worked, for example. in the 1980s. The Minister of Knowledge was probably quite young then, but it has worked before. I think it's possible to do this, and I'm glad it's started. But I want to take a little challenge that comes after, because once the girls and the boys have chosen untraditionally, it's unlikely that we'll follow them up. In the past, there was an equal opportunities officer in each county municipality, and they followed up and held it as a responsibility. Today, if anyone is interested in gender equality, there can be a lot, for example: in More and Romesdal, which have very good measures – South-Trundelag too, for that matter. But if there's a state where there's no one who has a special interest in it, there's actually nothing happening. I think we need to get back a equality officer in the county councils. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1320	I agree that the county councils, which are responsible for secondary schools, must also think of equality, and that when there is a general, cross-political objective that we want more gender-based education choices, and the same political majority sit in all county municipalities – because I don't think there are any parties that disagree with it – they must also take that job. But I don't think having a national obligation to have a particular job working with equality in each county municipality is the right way to do it. It's very nice if some states have it, or quite fine, but I don't think a national directive makes sense. I also believe that it is important what we do, among other things. strengthening programmes and campaigns to recruit girls for technology, for example, and building on the important work that the parties are also doing with gender-untraditional educational choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1325	I note that the Council of State says there is no need for a national directive. But then I think, what should one do? If the minister says that he is actually busy with equality in the county councils and that there should be equality in the secondary schools, we must have a proposal for what we can do. Because I believe the minister agrees with me that we will need a lot of skilled workers in the future. If we're going to get the best, we need both boys and girls. And as the minister also said as a introduction, take a very traditional choice: 3-4 pst. girls on car and electric, even less on construction and machinery. When you talk about equality, it might seem like it's just about girls and technology, and about college and engineering or vice versa, but there's very little focus on professional science. I'm wondering what the minister's thinking about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1330	I believe that, on the contrary, where we have had the most attention in the field of gender equality, it is precisely in the professions, because that is where we see the greatest distribution of bias – both by the fact that more girls choose preparatory courses than professional ones, and by the fact that it is so very clear in the various professional study programmes. I also believe that when the representative asks what we should do then, it is a question of basing on what Stortinget has asked us to do with and investigate. It is natural for me, as the Council of State in a parliamentary system, to follow up what the Stortinget has asked of us. I have not received an order that we should investigate or require an equal opportunities officer in each state. My final point is that we have to be honest about what the challenges are, because the problem here is not that there is anything wrong with formal equality. That's when boys and girls get to choose, they choose gender traditional.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1340	‘The search for many studies and lines is still gender-divided, and educational choices are traditional. Few men train in the major health and care professions and more pedagogical subjects and get women in some of the technological and mathematical science subjects. The gender sharing is also clear in secondary education. This affects the future working life as the basis is laid in school and education. What are the Government’s solutions for more equality and better gender composition in studies and working life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1347	As in the previous question, I agree with a lot of the problem description. I also agree that gender equality is an important objective, and we are following up the work of the Equality Communication and the Storting decision in this respect. In the case of secondary education, I refer to my reply to the representative Eldegard that the vast majority of applicants for secondary education are granted their first choice and that the reason for uneven gender distribution in some education programmes is primarily due to the student's search pattern, i.e. what the students choose. That doesn't mean it's unproblematic, but it's just nice to know exactly where the problem is. Higher education admissions are regulated by the regulations laid down by the Ministry of Knowledge and that regulation empowers the Ministry to decide that 1 or 2 additional points may be awarded to applicants for the sex clearly underrepresented among students or professionals from that education. Such additional points have traditionally been used to recruit women for technological and other human-dominated studies. From 2004 onwards, men have received 2 additional points for admission to veterinary and animal care training. When examining the gender equality report from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to ‘investigate the design and introduction of credits for boys and girls applying for studies where there is, for example, 80 per cent or more of the opposite sex and return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way’. On the basis of that decision, I have asked universities and colleges to record proposals for more education that could require such additional credits in order to achieve a better gender balance. We are also in dialogue with the sector, through the NTNU and the Committee on Gender Equality and Diversity in Research, on the follow-up to the request decisions of the Stortinget. Additional points for underrepresented sex will only be relevant where there are more applicants than the number of places of study. For studies where all qualified applicants are offered a place of study, other means must be used. For example, I can. mention kindergarten teacher training. It is a balanced education of women in which most qualified applicants are given a place of study and where it is not appropriate to provide supplementary credits. The number of men applying for training has increased steadily in recent years due to information and awareness-raising. The government cannot change traditional educational choices alone. This is a problem that we have to solve together. Employment also has a responsibility to show interesting occupations for both men and women. NTNU, which has had most studies with additional scores for women, says that such additional scores are important, but not only enough to achieve a better gender balance. The incentives that my department has available are therefore hardly sufficient. A number of policies must be pursued. This government places great emphasis on an overall gender equality policy. We have therefore submitted a gender equality report where gender imbalance in the professional and educational life is one of several areas to be followed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1366	In the gender equality communication, the government is very much in the process of rejecting gender scores as a measure of better gender balance, and in the Committee the majority, the members of the Right and the Progressive Party say that the Labour Party will resort to «laws, coercion and sanctions to implement changes in society». The Right Party and the Progressive Party consider that ‘changes in attitudes are best achieved through debate, organisation and different stipulations’. Now we see that this doesn't work, that the gender balance is just as distorted — and in some studies it's more skeptical than ever. This has a cost in terms of not using the talent in the whole population, it has a cost that we're not going to cover the capacity at all. If we're going to cover the capacity of health and care only with girls, we're not going to have enough people. If we're going to cover the capacity of the technology subjects just with boys, we're not going to have enough people. And it's going to go beyond quality. We know that it's important, for example. to have men in kindergarten and in primary school, and we are about to have a complete female dominance. What will the Council of State do to change developments? Is he waiting for an order from Stortinget, or will he take any own initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1371	First of all, I have said that I think today's legislation is basically good, and that means that there are universities and colleges themselves who report whether they want to use gender points. They've had occasion to do that, and I have no plans to change that practice, unless it's something that's completely unreasonable to tell them not to have a chance to do so. The second is that it is not that you are not concerned with the issue of equality. The question is, does gender score work? It may work in some cases: if it is such that very many of the underrepresented sex applicants, but do not have grades that are good enough to get in, for example. But if you take, for example, The veterinary study, as I mentioned, where men have had two additional points since 2004, we see a jump coming up, but today it is back at about the level it was in 2004. Why? Well, because there are so few men who apply initially, these sexual scores don't help. In other words, you have to do something about how many applicants, not just that the applicants get extra points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1378	But this is an excellent analysis. Then you have to do something for the reason that you have so few applicants. And then the question is, what does the Council of State do with that? It's all right that where there's open school, it's the free choice that largely governs, but we now have teacher training where there are only girls left, there are classes that are completely boy-free. Yeah, that's the free choice, yeah, there's open studies, but we have to do something about it. This starts a long way down in primary school, builds up through high school and turns out to be full-blown in higher education. We see that the boys fall from more, they choose very different sexes, and we lose a lot of talent in professions where we need both sexes actively with. I read the comment articles of the Council of State in Morgenbladet with great interest. He writes well, not constantly with the decimals in the right place, but very interesting. But the Council of State is not an commentator to reality. He is a politician and himself – both when the Storting order it, and on his own initiative for the year to come – must take action to improve equality in society. The government is passive, but this council is also very passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1385	What became apparent after the gender equality message was that the opposition and the Workers' Party have placed very many of their eggs – if not all – in one curve, and that curve is called ‘sex score’. So the problem is, when you're confronted with sex scores, you don't necessarily want to solve the basic problem, that you attack instead of explain what you want to do with it. Let me say two things about it. Firstly, it is difficult to regulate attitudes, i.e. that there is no quick fix or any quick decision that can be made to change what for each woman or man, boy or girl is attitudes that make them decide for specific educational choices. What we can do is, point number. 2 to stimulate, for example: – which we also support – projects with girls and technology, which is one example. I have been busy highlighting and making men visible both in kindergarten and in school. I also believe that a new master's education for teachers, which comes from 2017, can also help to make the profession attractive to more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1401	This question has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-19.ana.ud107e1417	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
