ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e31	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e34	On behalf of Iselin Nybø, Ola Elvestuen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the right of access to the royal house.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e39	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e42	On behalf of Knut Storberget, Karin Andersen and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative on the safe storage of patient information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e47	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e59	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Monica Mæland and Anniken Hauglie will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first question, from the representative Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e66	My question goes to the Minister of Labour, who is cordially welcome to the Stortinget. The Minister of Labour has been long-awaited, because full employment is the most important issue in society – in the view of the Labour Party – and a major challenge, which we now have in common. The main government measures so far have been tax-free, mostly to the richest, 18.5 billion. SEK – 50 million. kr every day of the year – which we miss out on tax revenue. The unemployed have been cut off in their economy. Nearer 2 billion. The unemployed are expected to contribute to the state register – or to receive less from the state register. Since the government took over, there have been 45 people who have lost their jobs every day. It's made us have a historically high leave. The latest figures from the Central Statistical Office show 134 000 unemployed in Norway, 4.8 p.m. While unemployment goes down in other countries, it goes up in Norway. When we can establish that the government's policy so far has not worked, what will the Council of State now do to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e77	There is no doubt that from the very day one, the government has been working to secure competitiveness and new jobs in more industries than in oil-related industries – to give us more legs to stand on. We see that there are many sparkles out there. Oil and gas work, especially along the coast, but we also see that there are many industries and industries that now have better days, for example. because of a different dollar rate. We see that the measures work. It's companies that are now getting contracts. Several companies are going to get contracts in the future. Companies make bio-funds change to a new era, and we see that every day jobs are created out there. The measures are working. What are we going to do in the future? The action package will now begin to work. In these days, we are working on revised national budgets. We are also working with the state budget for 2017. What measures and measures should we present there, we almost have to wait to say something about until that day when we are going to present the budgets. For my own part, I just want to mention that of course we are constantly working on measures to improve the situation. I have encouraged Stortinget several proposals to improve the day-to-day arrangements in order to make it easier for those who are now losing their jobs, to combine day-to-day pay with, among other things. education and with the possibility of setting up a business of your own. Now it's not just our country and businesses that are going to transform into large companies, but also individuals that have to be prepared to look for new jobs in new businesses and new industries. We're constantly working on this. We work purposefully and systematically. We will present new measures in the budgets when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e92	I look forward to new measures, because it is obvious from the unemployment figures that the policies that the government has pursued to date do not work – at least if the objective is to reduce unemployment. A very good example of that is that instead of giving large tax credits, we can create activity in the industries that are now tightening. For example, we're losing 50 million. kr in tax revenue each day. One could just drop that tax haven between three and four days, then one would actually have the money for a new gas ferry, which would create activity for those who have little to do. This is just a picture of how wrong it is to use tax credits as the main instrument in the current unemployment situation. Therefore, I ask the Council of State: can the Council of State make visible how much use of 18.5 billion. have given rise to employment growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e97	After all, tax credits for businesses and people are about securing jobs. It is not like the companies you are visiting now are asking for increased costs. On the contrary, they are asking for a policy that ensures their competitiveness. The tax havens are involved in contributing to it. The second thing they're concerned about is infrastructure. There is also the background that this government has a historic investment in infrastructure, on the road and track, because that is what businesses need now. In the State budget, we have presented a number of measures to improve the situation. We have short-term measures to keep the wheels running in the short term, here and now, the rehabilitation of public construction, road and rail – that type of action – and BIO means. The most important thing now is to convert our country in the long term. We need to find a completely new normal one because we have an oil industry going down. We're still going to live off it, but it's going down. Then it's important that we find new businesses, new industries to live off. This is precisely where industrial research and innovation, fiscal policy, infrastructure – what will create long-term migration – are what it is important to focus on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e108	There will be follow-up questions – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e111	In the Political Quarter on Monday, the Council of State ran with the favorite activity of the government: to complain to the Labour Party about not talking about their own policies. We seem to be passive and do not understand the long-term challenges of employment policy. Well, a shell that is known to be careful to throw stones when sitting in glasshouses. In the Labour Party, we see the relationship between the short-term and the long-term, and that one here has to focus on both and then act. Unfortunately, the government has been revealed that they do not understand it. For two years, the Prime Minister has been traveling around as a kind of tired mother without more offering the unemployed than a pat on the shoulders with an assurance that one will follow the situation closely. The so-called ‘action package’ is too far off, and the unemployed in the West have reason to feel cheated. In Norway, the highest unemployment rate can now be measured at some point, without the necessary measures being taken – cork in the short or long term. Is the Minister of Labour really comfortable with what's going to be in the history books about government efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e118	I feel pretty sure that what's going to happen in the history books is that the government put work, activity and conversion in the high seat through the priorities it did, in the budget and also through the action packages. So on historically high unemployment: The availability was higher in 2010 and even higher in the 1990s. However, it is clear that this situation is serious, and that is also the background for the government to give priority to what creates change, work and activity through a historical investment in infrastructure – it is crucial – and also through a historical focus on knowledge, research, education and what creates the jobs and innovation of the future. So I feel sure the story is going to go well with us. But there's no reason to think that this is happening by itself. We need to work continuously every day to secure the jobs. That is what the government is doing through the state budget we have presented, through the powerful package of measures we have put forward, as when the areas they are going to reach, and then we are going to present the revised national budget on not many weeks and the state budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e125	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e128	The challenges we see now are very geographically dependent. In particular, the affected South and West countries, other areas actually experience shortages of labour and, at least, a decline in unemployment. This is positive, but that means that the policy instruments must be targeted. At the same time, the Minister of Labour is absolutely right that there is a long-term job to be done. There's the long-term tool that helps, and there we're doing well. In order to address the increased unemployment rate we now have, concrete and targeted measures are needed in those regions. I want to challenge the Council of State on a special group, and that's youth. For young people between 18 and 24 years of age, the last quarter of 2015 was 8.8 pst. The last quarter of 2010, during the financial crisis, was 8,5 pst. Youth unemployment is higher now than it was in the financial crisis. This is a very dangerous sign because young people who should have been, for example, young people. apprentice or get into work, ends up with Nav instead. Will the Council of State provide something in the revised national budget, which is, of course, right around the corner, to strengthen the efforts of this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e138	First of all, I would like to say that I share the concern of the representative, Mr Ropstad, for the young people. It's a group that's close to my heart, too. What we're going to get into the revised national budget, we almost have to wait – revised is just around the corner. Let me say something about what the government is doing for young people in the budget that has been presented, which also includes the Christian People's Party and the Left. I am committed to ensuring our young people a good education, that fewer fall outside the education cycle, and that those who fall outside are included. Youth is a priority today in Nav. We have presented a youth package in the 2016 budget, which includes both additional action areas, targeting young people in particular, and a new two-year training scheme in Nav for young people to ensure basic skills. We are now clearing up the guarantee schemes to target and systematize work better, and we are also increasing the apprenticeship grant, to mention something. So youth is a priority group for us. It is important for us that they stay on the school bench, and that those who are going out to work are guaranteed a safe and good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e145	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e148	Many of the workers who lose their jobs today can become tomorrow’s employers if they succeed in creating their own business. And I know that the government and the Storting are concerned that it should be easy to start for themselves, take the chance, and luckily. One challenge that is self-employed is that if you have gone on a daily allowance and choose to start a business and not succeed entirely with it – a low ignition, one can go bankrupt, which will happen to many – it will give you quite a few possibilities later when it comes to the right to a social security network. Experience in France shows that if a self-employed person retains a daily allowance for the first few years of starting his own business, it leads to more and more profitable enterprises. Would the government like to consider additional provisions in the Day Money Code to allow more people to start on their own?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e157	I share the commitment of Rotevatn to self-employed people and to creating my own businesses. That's what we're doing right now, just to help create more jobs for ourselves, but maybe also create jobs for others. This is also why the government has presented its own business plan – because we are concerned about this. For my part, as I mentioned in a previous answer, I have made changes to the day-to-day pay legislation which means that more people who become unemployed, who want to start their own business, can do so while they go on a day-to-day basis. Today you have the opportunity to go on a daily allowance for nine months while starting up. We want to extend it to twelve months. It is a proposal in Stortinget. We are also constantly looking at whether we can make other changes to the day-to-day money regulation, including: to make it even easier for entrepreneurs. And then there's a sample under the Ministry of Finance, a divisional economics committee -- it's someone else's name, I think -- that's also going to look at the rights of the new forms of employment, and self-employed people will be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e166	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e169	In the case of increasing unemployment, the most severely affected young people, and those who quit high school, are hit hardest. A total of 10,000 of our 60,000 young people do not participate in interventions. Nav has a responsibility to help them get work, but much does not work. The recent national audit report shows that the follow-up of young people outside training and work is very poor. It's serious, and it gets worse. More jobs are needed for these young people. More jobs are needed in the private and public sector for this most vulnerable group. In a rough estimate, I would say that there is a need for at least 5,000 new places with a fixed-term salary subsidy. It is necessary because the youth teams we have are not able to do a good job if it is not employers who accept this vulnerable youth. My question is, what are the arguments against such a bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e178	This government is highly committed to addressing the challenges raised by the representative Lundtigen. Our entire state budget is just about securing more jobs and secure jobs that can include more people in the workplace. In the case of youth, two things in particular are important. One is to make sure they have the knowledge, education and qualifications enough to get a job. The government now has a number of measures to address the most vulnerable young people through, among other things. Nav, by increasing the apprentice's grant, and now we're also making sure that youth law passes into adult law – that there's no gap there. So it's about knowledge and education for young people, but it's also about reducing the risk for employers by taking in many of them that you might not otherwise have. There are, among other things: a major measure of wage subsidies, and this has also strengthened the government. Then we have changed the Working Environment Act, which will make temporary employment easier – so this government has this high on its agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e187	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e190	Unemployment is severe both for individuals and for communities affected by bankruptcy and depopulation. Just before Christmas, the announcement came that South Variety Gruve in Kirkenes was bankrupt and that nearly 400 workers lost their jobs. In a society of 10,000 people, about 1,500 people are affected directly or indirectly. South Varanger can really need a lift from state muscles in such a demanding situation. And we know that conversion agents and action packages have been used in the past, by the former government at least, in similar situations. I wonder: In what way can, and will, the government assist communities like South Varanger, which are severely affected by bankruptcy and depopulation and experience a great deal of unemployment today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e199	I think maybe the Minister of State...
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e204	Was the question addressed to the Council of State Sanner?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e208	The question was addressed to the Minister of Labour because it deals with unemployment – the municipality of South Varanger in relation to the high degree of unemployment in the municipality today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e213	But you asked for specific action packages for South Varanger. I think perhaps the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will be the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e218	It's Sanner's constitutional territory, so when Sanner's here, maybe Sanner can get answers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e221	I encourage the one who thinks it has the best answer from the government to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e226	I thank you for that. It is important that the person with constitutional responsibility also responds, and that the use of any means of conversion be placed under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. It is quite right, as the representative says, that South Varanger has been hit hard after the bankruptcy. There were about 422 people employed in the mine, and it also has indirect effects on the community. Then it is that in several cases we have given means of conversion, at the latest to the local authorities, who were in a difficult situation. There are very specific criteria to be able to get such support, and they are that at least 150 employees lose their job, and that it is 15 pst. by the employees of the municipality. There's something below that limit. However, we have received an application, and we will deal with it thoroughly and properly. Of course, we are prepared to try to help the community as best it can.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e235	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e238	My question goes to the Minister of Industry: in the last few days, we have seen a lot of suggestions related to what is now called Panama Papers, and where one of our major banks, DNB, which is partly state-owned, has been a frequently mentioned institution in this context. The state is known as a partner in many companies, and that is not the only company that has now been in focus, with a clearly negative sign, where the state is also the owner. I'm referring to Statoil, Angolan corruption prosecutor, and Telenor, Uzbekistan's corruption prosecutor, and Hydro, Tajikistan's corruption prosecutor. The country’s ten principles of good ownership include, inter alia, the second principle: ‘It shall be transparent in the exercise of ownership and in the activities of the company’. And in principle 10, it says, "Company will work purposefully to discharge its social responsibility." That's how a number of criteria are mentioned, including: issues related to anti-corruption and transparency, and then there's a sentence that I think it's important to include in this context: Traditionally, the concept of "social responsibility" has been intended to cover matters beyond compliance with laws and regulations. The Council of State itself was very clear in its statement, when this communication was being dealt with, that the state's expectations on these issues should be strengthened. So in the light of this, it might be an obvious question: how does the Council of State think that the state's intention, as adopted in those principles of good ownership, is being respected in the companies in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e251	It is true, as the representative says, that a number of information has emerged and, unfortunately, a number of issues relating to companies where the State is on the ownership side. I have to be very honest and clear and say that I wish that this was information that had emerged in our ownership dialogue with the companies. For very many of the companies, this is a relationship that goes back in time, which should have emerged at a much earlier time, actually many years ago. Now that this hasn't happened, I'm glad that we get publicity around this, because it gives us an opportunity to both intervene in individual matters and to follow up the individual company, to figure out what happened, how it happened and how it could happen, and also to see what consequences this has for the companies, but also for our ownership. We have – since I joined – strengthened our expectations. A unanimous increase has joined the social mission of the companies, the way we expect the companies to work. We're taking this into account in our dialogue with the companies, we're having constant dialogue throughout the year. Social responsibility is one of the points that we are going to address in depth. In addition, I met with all the directors of the state companies, also for two of the companies that are not under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, to clarify our expectations early in the period, in 2014, and to exchange information on how companies work. I felt that it was a good meeting, and that many of the companies reported back that it was important to get this information and share experiences. I have now called for a new meeting to review how the companies have evolved in two years. We have also asked PwC to look at our legislation, compared with British and American law, and look at the behaviour of international companies in this area to find best practice. So we work systematically both for individual companies and in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e264	I think there were a lot of good follow-up points in what the Council of State now came along with. What we have to ask ourselves as partners is, when we spend a lot of time and energy saying what expectations we have of the companies we're in, is whether the answer to history has now been that what has been laid down on paper, has not been followed up in practice, either in the companies or from the state, as the party you own. So I really perceive that the Council of State says that the management of ownership has so far been too weak, and that it will be improved, and I would like to have a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e273	Yes, the work on social responsibility must be something more than a theoretical exercise; it must be a practice for systems, cultures, and it must be worked systematically from top to bottom in any company. Then we also have to be clear that this means that we have to look at our own ownership exercise. We also have to learn from these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e278	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e282	In the last few days, the disclosure has clearly shown that DNB has made it possible for customers, through the mailbox companies in tax havens, to avoid paying taxes. This is far from what the government wrote about social responsibility in the ownership announcement, to which the Storting has agreed. The state council has asked for a statement from DNB, that's all right. In response to the representative Syversen, the Council of State was a little involved in some of the measures she has taken. What other action will the Council of State take beyond what has already been presented here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e287	Now it has to be said that for each company there is different information and different facts on the table. Some of the companies clearly reject the fact that there is a breach of laws, regulations and guidelines. That's how different companies have a slightly different situation. But we follow the individual company and are dedicated to bringing all the facts to the table. It is too early for me to conclude with what this will lead to for the state's ownership management, but I have to be clear that we also have to learn from this. This should not have happened, it should not have happened, and it should have been in the public domain a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e292	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e295	I have one specific question, and that is: why aren't the departments finding out these things? It's the media every time. Why isn't the department going into this kind of thing and actually finding out?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e300	I should have answered that. These are relationships that lie many years ago. I can't answer what owner dialogue was at an earlier time. I cannot answer why this has not come up before. I wish it had happened, I wish we could have caught up in this earlier. Now we're in a situation where it's come up. I'm glad, it gives us an opportunity to work on this and prevent it from happening again – and then we have to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e305	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e308	We have gained insight into tax evasion and attempts at creative tax planning. There are two types of tax planning: the manifestly lawful tax planning and the manifestly illegal tax planning. Between these two, there's definitely a grey zone. I suppose the Council of State agrees that companies in which the state is a major owner should not be in this grey zone. Will the Minister of Industry also encourage Norwegian private companies to stay away from this grey zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e313	Yes, it's quite obvious, we want a high standard in the area of social responsibility, not only for companies where the state sits on the owner's side, but for all Norwegian companies and people. But my constitutional responsibility is linked to the companies, so that's why I'm following them. We've been very clear, and we've strengthened our expectations through the ownership message both to transparency related to cash flows and to avoid placing money in countries where we don't have tax agreements. So we're more than clear, but my appeal goes to absolutely every company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e318	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e321	The combination of the words ‘corruption’ and ‘tax haven’ on the one hand and ‘largest company in which the State is the largest owner’ on the other often shows up disturbing. The list for which the Seven did well. Today, large state companies are usually role models with negative signs. It is, of course, easy for us in this Chamber and for the Minister to state verbally that this cannot continue. The information and information currently available in the wake of DNB cases, and the way in which the clear message from the late Minister of Finance in 2007 was perceived and not followed up, indicate that this is very close enough. In this way, and that is also my question, it is not most interesting what the minister says – although she now says very much the right things – but what he actually does in practice to ensure that these companies become role models with positive signs, in accordance with the interests of the major owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e326	What we can do is go into the individual case, meet the companies, get presentations from the companies. As far as DNB is concerned, I have asked for a written statement, I had a meeting with them last week. I have also asked for a written explanation where a number of new questions are expected to be answered. Then we have to do our own ownership exercise, but also the company's work in this area. We're dealing with the boards of companies, they're the ones who are going to do this job, and that's what we have to expect to do the job. Then we have to see if we're going to change our routines for this -- I'm completely open to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e332	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e335	The councils almost respond as if this was a completely new discovery, but we had LuxLeaks two years ago, and we know that a number of state-owned companies have been operating in or in possession of tax havens for a long time. If everyone here in the Chamber is so very much in agreement that there is a grey zone to avoid, is the Minister of Industry willing to instruct the state-owned and the company-led to end his occupation with tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e340	This is no new discovery. I had only been sitting in the Council of State for a few weeks when Yara adopted a historically high fine. After that came Telenor, and other companies have unfortunately come up with things that are right in time, but where it has been my responsibility to find out both what has happened and how we are going to work on this, and I have done that. Then it's not in line with our ownership principles, which a unanimous growth has decided, to instruct the companies. The Boards are the ones to make the decisions. But in the case of tax havens, in terms of transparency about cash flows, our expectations of the companies are completely clear in the ownership announcement. I would like to invite the representative to read page 83 of the ownership message. It can't be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e347	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e350	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. A number of publications are available on the local authority’s websites to assist municipalities working on the community reform. Some of them have been published by the Ministry. On 1 April 2016, the nation had a longer article on the use of referendums and polls in the community reform. This is a political issue. Very many believe that referendums should be conducted, that they are the most democratic, and until the municipal reform came, they have been common practice. The article states that a supervisor who is offered by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation recommends the use of polls rather than referendums, and that it has been developed by TNS Gallup. How will the Council of State explain that a company with an economic interest in the selection of polls by most municipalities has been entrusted with the task of developing such a supervisor in a political issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e361	Let me first say that there is now full speed in the community reform. Local politicians from all parties all over the country work well. They see that this doesn't go over. They see that municipalities face some challenges that make it necessary to change, and that it is necessary to build strong welfare municipalities, so that citizens can be given good services in the years to come. It's the local politicians who have to make the decision. They are the ones who are going to decide who they want to join before the County and the Grand Duchy and the Government make final decisions. The citizens must be heard, but how to hear the citizens is up to the municipalities to choose. They can do it through public meetings, they can choose to do it through so-called community studies, or they can do it with referendums. I see from the recent referendums – last in Sunnfjord – that people agree to build strong welfare municipalities. It was only in one municipality, Florø, that there was no in the referendum, so this is a local assessment. We've had an open process about who's developing the population survey, and I don't see any problem that it's a private company that's making such a proposal. And I have full trust – full trust! – that local politicians choose the solution that they think is best. This is an offer for local politicians, and I trust that they will make a wise assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e372	The council has made it a habit to talk for a long time about loose and firm that had to lie on his heart, when I ask a question. I would like an answer to my specific question, and out of respect for the Storting, I hope to get it. The more municipalities that choose a population survey rather than a referendum, the larger the market for actors such as TNS Gallup. They were so lucky to get the assignment to develop the supervisor. To me, it is an unfortunate mix of roles and not at all suitable to strengthen the legitimacy of the democratic processes that are now taking place in the communities. I believe that this helps to increase the democratic deficit and will therefore ask concretely: does the Council of State not see any unfortunate aspects of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e379	The answer to the question is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e384	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e387	No, it's not that difficult. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must send technical advice to the local authority sector. TNS Gallup is the head of the Department of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. They conclude that polls are better than referendums. That is a contentious conclusion. TNS Gallup sells polls at the same time. They therefore have a direct economic interest in the conclusion they have made on behalf of the Ministry – a conclusion which is then sent from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to the municipalities as a technical council. My question is, when the Council of State considers that this is not problematic: are there many other areas in the department where private companies with direct financial interests in a case send out professional advice on behalf of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e396	I can first confirm that there are different views on how to hear the people. Some municipalities do it through public meetings, others do it through community surveys, some do it through referendums, and some have a combination. There are also different points of view between the political parties. The former leader of the centre party, Anne Enger, has warned against the use of referendums and recommended the use of population surveys. This takes place in full transparency – full transparency – and I trust that local politicians will make such an assessment. I have answered the question: I see no problem that it is a private company that has made a draft of what such an investigation might look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e406	Stine Renate Håheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e409	From one reform to another: yesterday the government presented the Communication on future regional elected levels, and we in the Workers' Party are very pleased that there is now a broad majority in the Parliament for elected government at regional level. Both KS and several of the parties on the Stortinget have criticised the government for its low ambition in terms of task transfer to the regional level. It is a criticism that we recognise from the municipal reform, because what the council said would be the task assignment of the times to the municipalities, has provisionally ended with the approval of the swimming pool, the issue of passports, and that the rapporteurs can implement civil marriage. This has not exactly contributed to increasing enthusiasm for the community reform, so one year ago, the Workers' Party and the majority of the population voted for the transfer of several major tasks to the regionally elected level. Why has the government not followed up on this in the message that was submitted yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e418	The President believes that this question is a little bit on the side of the main question, but the Council of State can answer if he feels the call.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e421	I can confirm that, but I still think it is a good question, and I am very pleased with the positive attitude of the Labour Party towards regional reform. The Right Party and the Progressive Party – as the representative Håheim knows – have initially considered that there have been enough levels of government, but when there is a majority in the United Kingdom, on a proposal from the Left, which would keep three, and we have been asked to facilitate regional reform, we do so. I think it makes sense and is right to implement a regional reform. Too much takes too much time, because we have an obsolete structure. The discussion of tasks becomes a little bit like the discussion of hens and eggs, because some states say they are waiting for the state, and then the state says it will first see if there are any results. Let me remind you that when the major municipal reform was carried out 50 years ago, not many major tasks were started. They started by enabling municipalities to handle several tasks, and then they came later. We have put some concrete suggestions on the table now. I look forward to good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left – also with the Workers' Party – on a structure for the states and regions of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e428	Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e431	I want to go back to the community reform. It now takes place around — land and beach — in all variations and in all shades. And it seems that some people have realized – perhaps recently – that there will be a reform. It's useful, and the country needs it. I believe that the talks on community reunification will continue long after the reform is over, in municipalities that see the benefits of it. In the middle of this, the income system is also an important element. Much can be said about it, but the new structural criterion divides municipalities into ‘voluntary small’ or ‘involuntary small’. But I get some reports from municipalities that can become ‘involuntary small’ because the neighbors are blocking. It seems to be a group that may require specific measures. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e440	Let me first thank you for the constructive work of the Christian People's Party on the community reform. It's important that there are a lot of parties behind it. The Christian People's Party, the Left and also the Workers' Party have said that you see the need for larger municipalities – Jonas Gahr Støre said in a speech yesterday that he is honoring those who are now doing the good job out in Kommune-Norway. When we look at how we can create strong welfare municipalities, we also need to have an income system that builds up under it. We can't have an income system that freezes an old structure. The income system has rewarded those who have chosen to stand alone and made it more difficult for those who have wanted to join forces. So it is that there may arise some situations that may be unfortunate. Well, then we'll see, we have to see how we can facilitate such a situation. But now it's important that we get the main principles in place, and I hope that we can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e449	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e452	The main question was whether you had faith in all the different indicators if it was to be done by a private company, and the approval of it. In recent times, several of us have observed that there are many ways to try to slow down processes. Last time we had the joy of Sunnfjord – there were many municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane who said yes. Despite the fact that many of the Central Party saviors have traveled over and tried to preach the happy message of standing alone, there were seven municipalities out of nine who responded yes. The Oslo power could not override this, which many had tried to do – the local people's regime won. What does the Council of State think about the process in Sunnfjord and the municipal reform so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e461	Let me start by saying that I'm following this very closely. I joined NRK Sogn and Fjordane on Monday evening and follow with interest how local politicians from all parties – and I would like to say many constructive ones from the Center Party – work on this locally, because you see the need, and you are concerned about how to provide the citizens with good services for the future. It is true that in Sogn and Fjordane, there was a clear commitment to continuing to create strong welfare municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane, in Sunnfjord. I mean, that's good. I see that it works well all over the country, and I think it is based on a recognition that Kommune-Norway is facing some challenges that do not go away. It's about the many tasks, especially in the welfare field, the municipalities have, it's about how to help the most vulnerable among us, and it's also about seeing some financial clouds that can make it more demanding for the municipalities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e468	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e472	If major new reforms are to be carried out both in municipalities and in regions, it should well be that one knew what to use those regions for. You don't. I also note that the government and the Council of State are not particularly excited that the population should know neither the economic consequences of these reforms nor the tasks for which these new units are to be responsible. Nor are they particularly enthusiastic about the people being able to say their own way through a referendum. On the question from the Central Party on the Council of State, there were some problems that those who have an economic interest in organising investigations and not referendums should be the ones who give the Council, the Black Council of State no. I would like to ask: why, and what arguments are there for those with financial interests to be the ones who advise both the ministry and the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e481	In fact, municipalities make independent decisions. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has recommended community studies. The reason why we do that is that we believe that it gives local politicians the best decision-making base to decide who they might want to join. I have full confidence in local politicians – whether they want to choose a population survey, referendum or want to hear the citizens in other ways. The fact that the survey and the sketch for it has not been prepared in the department, I think is an advantage. I think it's an advantage that those who have knowledge of how to conduct this kind of community study do it. Then it's local politicians who decide if they want to use it or not. To repeat it, I have confidence that they're making wise decisions locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e488	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e491	The main question goes to the Minister of Labour. Changes in employment are not new. Today, however, they are more extensive than before, they happen faster, and they are enhanced by tough competition between companies. Labour demand is in some industries larger than the Norwegian labour market can cover, and, through the open, free labour market in Europe, labour supply is almost unlimited. A part of this workforce that we enjoy is in such a situation that it is difficult for them to perform their dishes. The General Law has a two-sided purpose. The law shall ensure, on one hand, that foreign workers are paid and worked on equivalent terms and conditions to those of Norwegian workers. At the same time, it must prevent distortions of competition to the detriment of the Norwegian labour market. Since we got the first nationwide collective agreements, we have had the principle that when employers send workers on assignment, employers will cover the costs. In winter we have, in contrast to this, among others. in the Official Journal of the European Communities, can read about several cases in which enterprises are registered at the place of employment and employees are added to the city, with the aim of avoiding costs of travel, accommodation and lodging. The combination of so-called local additions and the average withdrawal of working time leads to a strong competitive advantage for the enterprises, since they can extend the operating time by average curtailment of working time while avoiding the coverage of travel, food and lodging. The practice is legal according to the Employment Environment Act, and labour law has approved this type of construction through the Langset-saka judgment last year. At the same time, this practice leads to poorer working conditions for workers, and we cannot underestimate the fact that this is an increase in the number of Norwegian workers and Norwegian enterprises. So the question is, how will the Council of State follow this development, so that the objective of law is taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e504	First of all, I would like to say that I share Mr Breivik's commitment to a serious working life. We are all well served that we have a serious working life that respects the rights of employees and that stimulates the companies to operate seriously. Public disclosure is one of the instruments available. Today, there are eight – if I remember correctly – public relations agreements to ensure this kind of issue. So public service is one area and the fight against labour crime is another area where the government is concerned, just to ensure a serious working life. That's where we have our own strategy. We work closely across departments and with the parties involved to avoid this. Then there has been a verdict, to which the representative refers, which was recently passed. Concerning the questions raised by the representative: the Langset judgment is one thing. It is also a matter that is now under way in ESA, on neighbouring issues — it is not yet clear how that case will land — where a Supreme Court judgment is being tried in ESA. This too with publicity, pay between assignments and the kind of issues discussed between the parties, not least. The Ministry is in dialogue with the parties on this type of issue. We follow this work closely. In the autumn we took an initiative towards the parties to discuss this in more detail, and I can promise the representative Breivik that this will be followed closely, and we may also come back to further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e513	The follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. Statoil recently allocated, inter alia: ISO Professional Contract at Statoil Mongstad. The provider who has won the contract shall assign most of the staff locally, so that they are required to pay travel, subsistence and food themselves. The hourly salary is after I have been informed, approx. 170 kroner, with deductions for travel and housing. As mentioned above, collective agreements and previous practices have meant that employers travel, stop and diet as well as 20 pst. extra for overnight stays outside the home. This form of local addition actually excludes Norwegian workers, for they cannot live on a monthly wage that is actually set at NOK + - 10000. This leads to increased unemployment in Norway at the same time as higher labour migration from Eastern Europe — workers who are in practice undergoing social dumping. In addition, Norwegian suppliers who loyally adhere to tariff agreements lose competitiveness. Can the State as the largest owner in Statoil allow this practice of social dumping, which in reality leads to unequal conditions of competition for local Norwegian suppliers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e526	It's the way I can't answer for Statoil, it's the OED that's responsible for. But in general, our desire – and what we work for – is as much competition rules as possible for both Norwegian and foreign workers. We want equal market access in Norway and abroad. We depend on Norwegian companies going into markets, and then we also have to accept that foreign markets come in. However, this must be done in the best possible conditions of competition. That's my general answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e531	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e534	The supplementary question goes to the Minister of Labour. The framework for employment policy, and not least what we are talking about here, is being laid down at European level. Recently, the European Commission proposed the revision of the so-called Posting of Workers Directive, which provides the framework for workers posted in other countries, and there is a great deal of policy in it. Among other things, the proposal points out that collective agreements should be compulsory for posted workers in all sectors, not only in construction, but also that countries should be able to oblige subcontractors to pay the same wages as main suppliers, as well as much more. The government has been busy running an active European policy and being on the ball early and not just treating the directives when they've come all the way here to the hall. So my question is really short and good: what does the government think about the proposal for a new posting directive, and how does the government work to influence that process?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e543	Here I just have to admit that I do not know the details of the directive, but the representative is absolutely right that we want an active European policy. We are committed to having open markets and free movement of labour between countries. I almost have to come back to Stortinget with a more adequate response to how we will follow up that directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e548	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e552	I think I choose to ask my supplementary question to the Minister of Industry. One of the serious Norwegian employers said that not only do companies not pay and cover travel and subsistence expenses for their employees, they also oblige their employees to move to avoid the cost of travel. Governments are responsible for the law on public acquisitions. Under the new EU directives, there are opportunities to take social considerations into account under the procurement law, and then my question is: Will the Council take the initiative to make the type of scheme illegal when public undertakings make tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e561	I think essentially that the answer to that must be no. There is a great deal of room for action when it comes to public acquisitions, no one is equal. There's a difference between buying coffee and building opera, and that's why the rules also have to have a room for action. Then it can be considered that it makes sense to require employees to live near the place of work. I know, for example. that when we employed a new competition director in Bergen, one of the objectives was that we should have one who also lives in Bergen, without that being decisive. So here, different instances have to be able to make different assessments. I am concerned about using the action space, getting the best purchases, and that there is innovation in the purchases. We need more people to deliver to the public. It should be a great deal of freedom of action, but proper, proper and verifiable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e566	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e569	It's for the Minister of Labour. Full employment requires political governance, and now we are getting more and more storms with increasing unemployment both from abroad and from Norwegian circumstances. It is then in the cards that one must have stronger political governance to ensure the mantra of 'full employment', i.e. stronger political governance within the nation state of Norway to provide security, to ensure a level playing field between people, to distribute the burden – we are facing it. Traveling workers have a major disadvantage and a high cost in their working situation. It has so far been well covered. Now we are in a situation where employers have demanded a significant reduction in pay for travelling workers. What is the government's attitude to such a requirement? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e578	As I mentioned so far in my reply to the representative Rotevatn, there are now processes in Brussels to pay travel, diet and lodging for foreign workers. What agreements are concluded between employees and employers is initially a question for the employees and employers. It is the parties themselves who decide what are the different tariff provisions. Then I have to say on a general basis that this government is for both the EU and the EEA Agreement. We are committed to the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement, not least the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement to Norwegian companies to access European markets, but also to the opportunities offered by it to workers in the EEA territory to move freely between countries in order to carry out missions where there may be no business cycle. There has now been a situation where workers have come to Norway because there has been growth here. Only in the city we're now in, is the development that the vast majority of those who come to town are labour immigrants, and we think that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e585	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e588	My question is to the Minister of Industry. The tax havens threaten our welfare model, and both poor and rich countries are deprived of unfathomable values. This week broke as well-known Panama Papers, which really shows the rawness of modern capitalism. In Norway, many have reacted strongly to the fact that DNB, where the State is a partner, has communicated its customers to tax havens. How many state-owned companies operate in or are in the possession of tax havens, and what are the sums involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e597	I hope the answer to the question is 'no' and 'no', but of course I can't guarantee it, as reality has shown. What we've seen come up now related to DNB is something that is completely contrary to the guidelines and expectations we have today. This is an area that has evolved. However, in 2015, last February, the Stortinget adopted a statement of ownership, which makes it very clear what is expected about transparency in money flows, about avoiding using tax havens that do not follow the standard of the Global Forum on Transparency and Effective Information Exchange, and that companies have policies, systems and measures to prevent corruption. We follow this up in the owner dialogue, I follow it up in meetings with the directors, and of course we get involved when we get to know them. As I said earlier today, unfortunately many of them have become known through the media. I wish they came up a long time ago. These are issues that lie several years back, which should have been managed several years back, but when they come now, we'll deal with them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e604	I can also hope that the answer is ‘no’, but we already know that the answer is not ‘no’. We already know that there are several state-owned companies that either act in or operate in a tax haven. Very well-known was the Council of State notified by DNB a week before this Panama Papers leak reached the public, and I think it is a bit alarming that over a week afterwards the Council of State has not tried to get an overview of its own company's classification of secret law. How can the Council of State require a full overview of what has happened in DNB, when she has not gotten an overview of the other state-owned companies? Is there really no one, either the Council of State or the 355 employees she has available in the ministry, who can account for the actual position of state companies in tax havens, in addition to the expectations that we all of course agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e611	I don't think the representative heard what I said. This is the subject of an active ownership dialogue from our side. These are the questions we have in the dialogue with the companies, and the answer we get from the companies is that they don't operate in tax havens without an agreement. The expectations are clear, they're not to be misunderstood, and if something like that had come up, we would have grasped it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e616	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e620	There is a dialogue with the owner I would like to ask the Minister of Industry about. As a direct response to the discovery of Panama Papers, the Minister of Industry called on the directors of state-owned companies for a seminar on ethics and corruption in June – 14 June, they are now in urgent need. For the time being, it is the only initiative that we can see that the Minister of Industry has taken over these companies – a seminar on ethics and corruption just before the summer. I have taught in ex. phil. and have great faith in ethical reflection as a path towards both a better life and a better society. But how should ethical reflection help us win the fight against tax evasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e627	I think there's been a misunderstanding here. The call I've sent to the directors is not a follow-up to Panama Papers. It was decided completely independent of that matter, on the basis of my commitment to working against corruption. I had a meeting – not a seminar – in 2014, where I went through how the companies then worked on this. I want to follow up that meeting now, two years later, knowing how the companies have now developed their work in this field. It's also related to a work that PwC does for us, which was also going on completely independently of this case, where you look at the work of the boards internationally, we look at the work of the owners internationally, we look at the work of the companies internationally, and we compare legislation. It's a good opportunity to present that report to our directors and also to go through how it works, and exchange information about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e632	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e635	I asked the Council of State earlier in the Questionnaire on why not the Ministry discovered these kinds of cases. I want the Council of State to respond to what she's thinking about doing so that it can actually turn around and become so that departments discover that kind of thing. In addition, the Labour Party presented a proposal for a representative on a strategy to ensure that the expectations of the ownership message related to transparency of cash flows and taxes have to be followed up. We put that out yesterday. Then I ask the Council of State if it agrees that we have to do something about it, and if she supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e642	It's a little special, this – a matter that came up many years ago, when the representative's party sat in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and as far as we know, this was never followed up. So the question of why the department hasn't shown enough is quite simply the answer that it hasn't been a good enough follow-up. We have asked questions about both Luxembourg and tax havens, among other things. DNB, because we follow it up in our ownership dialogue, but we depend on the correct answers we get. Then I cannot decide on a representative proposal I have not seen. But our expectations in this area are clear, we're following it up, and I understand very well that the Storting is also engaged in this. That's all there's to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e647	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e650	There is a lot of evidence that the ordinary ownership dialogue has not adequately ensured transparency and helped to avoid corruption and prevent other questionable behaviour. It is then natural to ask the Council of State: What new measures and new measures does the Council of State see the need to take ownership in order to avoid getting more of these things in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e655	I have responded to that earlier today – I think it’s too early to conclude, in addition to being open that we also need to look at our own ownership management and the ownership management you’ve had over the past few years. Now I think that developments in this area have gone in the right direction. The things we see come back from years ago, but these are matters that should have been raised in the public eye and in the owner's dialogue. So I'm open to change. We have to get back to how it can happen, and that's also something we've asked PwC to give us advice, based on international experience in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e660	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e663	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Norwegian economy is in a difficult situation, and we have record high unemployment. Now a government needs to understand that we need to have an active industrial policy. Before the 2013 elections, the government parties talked a lot about bringing new ideas and better solutions, but where did these become? The government pays off delivering in business policy. Already in 2014, I challenged the Minister of Industry whether the government had a plan to meet the dramatic situation we saw in the supplier industry. The government would wait and see. Since that time the arrows have just pointed one way. In the case of the rules of leave, the government has relaxed its feet before any changes were finally made, and on a rest day. The Minister of Economic Affairs is surprisingly passive. Where is the Industrial Message Stortinget ordered over a year ago? Where does the bioeconomy strategy Stortinget provide the government last year? Now we're in April, and these things are still waiting. In the Workers' Party we made an industrial strategy with a number of good proposals. If the government lacks new ideas, they're welcome to take a look at this. We put 125 million. kr into our alternative state budget to bet on the bioeconomy. The travel message will probably be written in hours off, but when will it be completed? The new solutions seem to be waiting, while a number of people have to stand in vacant queues. Now there were notices of 500 new cancellations in Aibel, 700 in the oil company FMC and the third round of redundancies in National Oilwell. There is now a strong need for concrete action in the short and long term. Why is the government taking so long to get to the Biggest with all these important business policy issues, in times when there is an extra big need for an active business policy to reduce unemployment, create values and create new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e678	It is true that since we joined, we have been working on the conversion of Norwegian business. We knew we were vulnerable. We knew that we had not spent good years preparing difficult years, so we made clear priorities – knowledge, research and development, transport and tax cuts. Finally, I have to say that it can only be in the Workers' Party that it is believed that tax increases create jobs in the private sector. There is no one out there calling for solutions from the Workers' Party, on the contrary. Then, over the period we've had with falling oil prices, we've taken both short-term and long-term measures. Last May, I presented a maritime strategy. Nothing had happened in the maritime area in decades. Now we see ships flying home – 15 since 1 March, when the regulations came into force – a direct result of government policy. We have submitted a business plan that allows more than ever to start their own business – 30 pst. more in Rogaland in February this year, compared to last year. We've changed the terms of the permit. We have presented a package of measures that is now being rolled out. The marine defense has offered tenders that Bergen Group has received. Haukeland University Hospitals and several others publish tenders. Jobs are created in the short term. But the most important thing we do is in the long term, and then it's not like we're sitting and waiting with politics until messages are finished. Policies are being pursued on an ongoing basis. We have done so – both small and large important measures to contribute to the transformation that Norwegian industry now needs to undergo. The industry message is in the loop. The travel life message is delayed because the industry wanted it. They had amazing results last year. They have wanted an investigation into how to set up the marketing part, and then I have notified them that it means a release. That's the industry understood. As far as the bio-industry is concerned, they have historical programmes to apply for. Nutritional research has increased by 2.4 billion. kr during the period of this government. It means transition in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e690	What the Council of State says about the Labour Party's policy is at least wrong. The problem is that the government prioritises measures that do not work. In the budget, the government has had tax cuts as its main effort, claiming that this is growth-promoting, but there can be no doubt that cuts in property taxes are not accurate enough. This has also been confirmed by a number of professionals. Orkla has 104 factories today and plans to halve that number. In my home country, More and Romesdal, they have the Ello factory in Kristiansund, where there are 60 important jobs we sorely need. They are waiting for a clarification as to whether they will continue to produce the Lano soap and Solidox toothpaste and a number of other products there, or whether the company will be flying out to Sweden. The company is going to be positive, but it may seem that the owners want to squander even more out of their toothpaste tube. The owner is one of those who have received great tax relief from this government. If tax cuts were proper medicine, shouldn't we have seen that they kept their industry in Norway, and not flagged it out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e695	I have the impression that tax cuts and wealth taxes have become a very academic exercise for the Workers' Party. Are there any Norwegian companies telling the representative, Botten, that the property tax doesn't matter? They're telling us the opposite. They say they're now paying taxes on a fortune they owned last year. This is not money in the bank – this is money in shares, machines, in companies that are now manning down, who are now not paying dividends, and then comes the property tax bill. It means something in practice for Norwegian companies. I am genuinely concerned about, among other things, maritime sector in that part of the country from which the representative comes. Do we have Norwegian-owned offshore companies again in a year? It's the property tax that's a problem, because it's not a profit tax and it's not a tax on money in the bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e700	There will be follow-up questions – first Irene Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e703	I will follow up a little in relation to the need for action in business policy. The situation in the oil and gas sector is well known. It is also the consequences of the airline seat charge, which the government will introduce from 1 June. Moss Airport Rygge has announced that it is likely that the airport will have to close and that some 500 to 1000 jobs can be affected. Other industries also now report redundancies in the Moss region and other regions. Orkla announces that they will close Idun factories' production of ketchup, mustard and vinegar and move production to Sweden. 75 employees are directly affected, so they move production even though it is profitable. An active industrial policy has long been called for by the government, including: providing industry with good framework conditions. Such a framework condition is the flight seat charge, among other things. When companies like Orkla now announce that they will move their profitable business to Sweden, I would like to ask: What concrete measures will the Minister of Industry take to maintain today's jobs and create new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e714	I agree that many companies have a very challenging situation. Some companies are doing well, others are having a hard time, and we have to be able to have a policy for both. It's like we can barely prevent companies that have profits, move out of Norway if they want to, but of course we can agree that it's serious, and that there's a situation we have to face. Framework conditions deal with taxes and taxes – reduced taxes and taxes. Framework conditions deal with transport, increased investment in transport, both in jobs and better access to goods and services. An active industrial policy is about keeping the time budget for research-oriented innovation and development. Both the Research Council and Innovation Norway are being filled in by their programmes, so there is a greater need for them than ever. Businesses use this, and we know that one dollar from the government will trigger two dollars in the company and seven dollars in value creation. So this is transition into practice, but this is a situation we have to go through, and it's demanding. So with regard to the fare, it's a decision that the Stortinget has made, and I'm fully aware of the negative effects that it also has.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e721	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e733	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is directly responsible. Question 3, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who is directly responsible. At the request of the State Council, the question was moved and answered before question 18, to be answered by the same State Council. Question 12, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Immigration and Integration, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is directly responsible. Question 17, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Fisheries, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e754	This question, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e757	‘Universal design is modern, functional and liberating, as many more become self-held, can move and use society freely. In the government’s new action plan, the goal of Norway’s universal design by 2025, set by the red-green government, is to be removed. This is a clear down-priority from the government and a serious setback for the objective of social equality for people with disabilities. What is the rationale for postponing the goal of universally designed societies for an indefinite period of time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e764	The government is working for a universally designed society. We want to have a community where everyone can participate. Universal design is about equivalency, equal opportunities and a society without obstacles and impractical solutions. Universal design is also increased value creation, enhanced social sustainability and a quality of society that everyone enjoys, regardless of disability. The new Universal Design Action Plan, launched by the government in January, includes actions on the responsibilities of ten departments and covers, inter alia, the following: ICT, welfare technology, buildings, outdoors and transport. In addition to the State, municipalities, county councils and private enterprises are responsible for following up universal design in their fields. There is today a requirement that all websites addressed to the public should be universally designed by 2021. State buildings aim to ensure that all buildings they manage are universally designed by 2025. There are many good examples to show, but at the same time we have a way to go before we see a universally designed society. In 2014, only 7 pst. of public buildings in the municipal entrance party accessible to persons with reduced mobility. This is the average. In Stavanger there has been a good development. There's 32 pst. of the public buildings entrance batches available to persons with reduced mobility. Stavanger is also one of the very few cities with its own municipal district plan for the development of universal design by 2021. The experience of Stavanger and other municipalities that are at the forefront of universal design is important. That is why I am pleased that we are now supporting a local community universal design network in the KS to transfer competences between municipalities. The government prioritizes universal design. The government is systematically working towards the goal of a universally designed society. There is now a scenario project under the direction of Bufdir to identify the best and most effective ways to get there as quickly as possible. I would also like to remind you that the Stoltenberg II government formulated the year 2025 as a vision and not as a goal. This government also looks forward to a universally designed society, but does not consider it appropriate to set a year for when we are in port with this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e785	I record that the government doesn't have as its priority the universal design of society, because it's impossible to achieve a goal if you don't have a goal and set a deadline. Many people may need it – this house, for example. I know that there are 25 people who need wheelchairs, who don't get into the gallery today, who would have listened to this debate. So there are many who have a long way to go. But the Council of State has a coordinating responsibility for ten departments, which she now mentioned. Then there is reason to ask whether the Council of State now has an overview of the work in the other departments, and that they actually follow up what they are obliged to do, and whether the Council of State has some means at its disposal to ensure that this is actually prioritised in the budgets. Such a deadline is for all departments to follow up and give priority to it in their budgets during the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e792	I thank you for the question. I can assure the representative that the government is taking the work of universal design very seriously. As the representative was concerned, which is quite correct, I have a coordinating responsibility. I have close and good cooperation with the departments concerned, which have – what to say – a foot in the work of universal design. I mentioned concrete actions against the work of local community networks in KS. I could also go into what goes on at national transport level, which is a good example of how the government is systematically working to make Norway universally unmistakable, but I expect that the Minister of Transport – probably – will come up with that in his answer to question 4 in today's Question Time. We're also working for a universally unincorporated society where everyone can participate and be more included. We have close and good cooperation with the organisations. I have also now taken the initiative of an annual round table conference, in which the departments concerned also attend meetings with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e801	So then we have a government council without a deadline and without any means to influence the other departments that are responsible for this. However, I have found one proposal in the draft budget of the Council of State, and that is to remove the special protection against discrimination and to present a common law on discrimination. What we're talking about now is social discrimination. It is a proposal such as: The disability association is opposed, because it weakens the protection – the concrete wording of the purpose paragraph, the loss of activity obligation, the non-inclusion of the CRPD into the law, the lack of equality between goods and services, and the lack of representation. It's a slogan that says 'Nothing about us without us', which is incredibly important. What is the reason why the Council of State will not listen to those organisations and the people concerned, and place their views more strongly on the scale of what kind of protection against discrimination should people have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e806	The government has gone out to consult proposals for a new common law on equality and discrimination, where we propose more concrete measures that will make the protection of discrimination for those with disabilities stronger than they have today. The proposal has been out for consultation, and the ministry and signed jobs are now going through the hearing replies. I cannot yet address what proposals we are going to promote for the Storting, but I can assure the representative that what is important for this government is to have a good law of discrimination for all those who are being discriminated against. We have also had a review of the enforcement system, because it is important if you are to have good laws, that you also have a good enforcement apparatus. The representative pointed out that there is a government council without any tools. This Council of State coordinates the government's work with universal design. If the representative goes into the budgets of the other departments, she will see that there are many reinforcements in the field of discrimination against universal design that this government takes seriously and works with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e817	‘Before the election of the Magnificent, the Right and the Advance Party promise war against the growth of bureaucracy. Making a stand-up after two and a half years with the Right Party-Registration, it's obvious that that war never happened. A new Norwegian record has been recorded in the number of members of the department and directorate, with over 1,500 new state bureaucrats since the government change in 2013. How many of these are people with disabilities?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e824	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal is concerned with the number of new employees with disability in directorates and departments in the last two years. In this context, I would like to mention first that the government is confirming a new employer strategy for state enterprises. The value base determines that enterprises are to be inclusive and diverse jobs using societal competence resources. In the sub-strategy dealing with the specific requirements we have for our businesses, it is said, among other things. that they should recruit widely and not ignore competences, develop a good and inclusive working environment, and strengthen their efforts in the IA work. As mentioned in Prop. 1 S will start a new training programme for people with disabilities in 2016 in cooperation with state enterprises. This will lead to an increased frequency in the implementation of these programmes. Work on increased diversity of the State labour force must take place within the current legislation. In the case of new jobs, the employer does not have the opportunity to ask the applicant for health information. It follows from the Working Environment Act. However, in order to contribute to the achievement of the objective of greater diversity in government employers’ policies, employers are required to call at least one qualified disabled applicant for an interview in all additions. In order to have such an increased chance of attending an interview, applicants are encouraged to mention their disability. The fact that an employee is disabled is a sensitive personal data and the Data Protection Act does not initially allow the employer to record or store such data about employees. These rules restrict the possibilities of the data base in this field. In the Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Central Bureau, a representative sample of all employees already employed in the country is drawn each year. These are asked anonymously for a lot of variables. In October 2015, the proportion of government employees with disabilities was around 8 p.m. The representative refers to figures that there have been 1,500 new employees in departments and directorates since the government change. Revised figures show that this increase is at the base of 1,400. Growth has come in priority areas for the government, including: in knowledge, transport, health, police and preparedness. The government aims to reverse the growth of bureaucracy. It shall take place through simpler and less bureaucratic processes. This could provide the basis for shifting resources from administration to better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e846	The answer was fine in itself, but there was something elusive about the concrete thing I asked about, especially when we know that the number of non-employed disabled people who want work is stable at around 27 p.m. It is a cross-political objective, as the Council of State also notes, that several of these should come to work, not only because work improves the quality of life for individuals, but also because the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market will help society and businesses to take advantage of the skills and workforce they represent. Is the Council of State happy that failure in the relatively large bureaucracy box does not bring happiness, as I understand the Council of State, to the extent of adding more disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e853	I am pleased that the Labour Party is also involved in this issue, that there is a cross-political desire that we should not ignore competence – that we should use the competence, regardless of whether we have a disability or not. My answer was very specific, because we do not have the opportunity to ask for this information or to register this information. It's sensitive health information, and it'll be quite surprising if it's the way the Workers' Party now wants us to ask about this. We are now laying down a new employer strategy, where we have clear objectives and clear tools to help the state to be a diverse employer. Finally, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now also concerned that we should move resources from bureaucracy to better services. We've started that work. At the same time, I am pleased that we have grown where we prioritise growth, namely in universities, colleges, police and transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e864	I thought the Council of State could be a little more ambitious and concrete in its approach to the issue. It is a requirement of disabled people’s organisations that the government should consider new tools to provide employers, both public and private, with more disabled workers. Now it's not all here that this Council of State is constitutionally responsible for, but the FFO is asking for, for example, the government to quantify a target to get 10,000 more people with disabilities to work in the next few years. They propose, among other things: to create ear-marked settings for disabled persons qualified for the job. In addition, they recommend that the government consider imposing public agencies to add more from the target group. Here the government has a chance to turn an unwanted growth in government bureaucracy into something positive. Will the Council of State seize that possibility? And how will he possibly follow it up in the departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e869	Let me first thank the representative again for talking about unwanted red tape. It's our wish to have more policemen. It is desired that we have more researchers at universities and colleges. At the same time, we are taking concrete measures to shift resources from clean administration to better services. I am happy if the Labour Party now agrees with the government that this is an important goal. Then we have clear ambitions that the state should be a diverse employer. I think that the government can learn a lot from private companies, among other things. Telenor, who has gone ahead in this area. But we have to deal with the demands of the Working Environment Act, we can't ask for sensitive personal data, we have to relate to it. But we are now laying down an ambitious employer strategy with clear objectives in this area, and we are also implementing a trainee programme, which is a concrete measure to improve the facilities for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e876	Question 3 will be answered before question 18. Let's move on to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e885	‘For many travellers, the lack of whole travel chains is a major challenge by the fact that the transition between modes of transport is not universally adapted or that there is a complete or partial lack of assistance service. Can the Council of State clarify when, and on which routes, he can promise universal design according to the standard for example on the 'East Line' route?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e892	First of all, I would like to say that it is important to contribute to mobility in society, for everyone who lives here. For people with disabilities, it is especially important that we facilitate access and when a person is on board collective means of travel. It's something we spend a lot of time on because it's about making sure everyone has an opportunity to participate in society. And it is important that as much as possible have a chance to participate in society, as a free individual who is not made dependent on the assistance of others – even if that assistance is good for those who need it. The transport policy objective of universal design is fixed and communicated in the current NTP. It's about contributing to the universal design of the entire travel chain. We would like to say that we would make sure that everything went right away, but we know that very much of the infrastructure that exists is built on a time when one did not have those priorities in place. Then it's about when we build new ones, we have to make sure it's universally designed. When we do major upgrades to existing stations, for example, we also have to make sure that it is raised to that level. But on many of the hundreds of railway stations and bus stops around the country, we have to do a priority on how we spend the money to get this target in place as fast as possible, but nevertheless with an understanding that it takes some time. In my meeting with the disabled people's organisations, they are very clear that it's important to have travel chains, that when you can get on a train, you should also be able to get off. Then it doesn't help that one repair any stations, then one has to repair the entire distance. Similarly, it is in the bus area. But because many of the services we offer often involve a trip by train and then by bus, it's about having to cooperate well between the state, the county, the municipality and the transport companies. There are currently legislation and standards requiring the universal design of both buses, trains and boarding solutions for aeroplanes. One currently has assistance services at all airports. In addition, Avinor works to make things better when they invest, so that one becomes the most self-driving wheel possible. On the railway there are six stations that have assistance services today, and there is in addition a five-six that one plans to implement during the year. In a lot of stations, we're now working to figure out how to provide good accessibility, also universal design, where we're able to achieve as much as possible in a good way. Over the next two weeks, I have a planned meeting with the disabled people's organisations, just to discuss what kind of flexibility we should give ourselves, to get the money to go as far as possible. Some places it's about that if one raises the platforms, one could come on board with a wheelchair without any problem. The nice thing is that if you come on board with a wheelchair without any problem, you will also be able to come on board with a baby carriage and so on. So there's a lot of people working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e905	I look forward to the government’s presentation of the National Transport Plan in this field. Let's see how much is in there. However, in the opinion of the Transport and Communications Committee on National Transport Plans 2014-2023, the present majority of the Committee, composed of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, had the following proposal: «The Government is asked to submit to the Stortinget a Universal Design Status Report in all transport areas.» Now these proposers also have multiple numbers in Stortinget, and my question to the Council of State will then be whether he has followed up, or will follow up, this point of a separate Universal Design Status Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e917	It is always shocking when those who voted against a proposal in the previous period ask for its results when they themselves have come into opposition. We work with the National Transport Plan and have been presented with the assessments of the departments. Now we're going to use the next few years to travel around the country and beach and meet businesses, organisations, politicians and others to make our proposal for a national transport plan to be promoted for the Storting. Universal design is going to be an important part of it. It would also be natural for a status report to be included in the national transport plan. We will also ensure that until 2018, when the next NTP begins, we will implement the goals that I perceive that everyone in this room really supports, regardless of whether one has been in government or in opposition in previous periods. We're going to implement them in the best possible way. That's the point of wanting to talk to the disabled people's organisations to find out how they are comfortable with us reaching the targets in the best possible way, and where we can upgrade as much as possible of the low-traffic stations as well. If you were to universally design them, you would have to upgrade a lot fewer stations per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e926	It's funny that the Council of States let themselves be charmed, but it's true that we voted against that proposal because we thought our proposals for follow-up in this area were adequate. Therefore, I am surprised at the attitude of the Council of State to that now. But the 2016 budget says that the government has a follow-up rate of only 51.2 pst. on universal design. Is the Council of State content to be so far behind in this area, which, of course, does not exactly make up the large sums, but which would imply a very great improvement in the quality of life for very many people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e933	In terms of appropriations, the representative refers to, a percentage follow-up, not necessarily how many stations you've been given something to, because much of what happens in universal design is not about the specific programme area, but it's about when a new one is built. And now it's building a lot of new stuff. There are a lot of other things that benefit from universal design, but that come at other program posts. So all in all, I think we're doing a lot of good. But one of the most important things I think we do – and that's exactly what I mentioned in my two previous answers – is that we have to discuss with the disabled people's organisations how to get the money to go further, so that we can upgrade some station areas without requiring them both to raise the platforms and to extend them, because then they fall into the priority order. If we can agree on e.g. raising the platforms on the routes which are, without automatically allowing any other requirement that one should also extend them, enter into force, projects tend to lose 40 million. NOK 2-3 million. kr. Then we should look at how we manage to achieve as much as possible, with an offer that is good enough for the disabled, without saying that we should have extravagant solutions that will make one not reach that far... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e944	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In the alternative report of civil society to the UN Committee on People with Disabilities, there is a lack of coordination and a lack of overall multidisciplinary approach between sectors in policy-making in this field. Does the Council agree with this description and what measures have been taken to counter it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e953	I thank you for the question. It is my responsibility, as the representative says, to coordinate the policy of people with disabilities. The aim is to achieve a coherent and coordinated policy for people with disabilities. Coordination and overall efforts require clear sectoral responsibility and good cooperation between sectors and services. The principle of sectoral responsibility is a necessary and fundamental strategy for achieving the main objectives of this policy area. My main steps towards good state coordination are to provide good and comprehensive legislation, to ensure a good knowledge base and to maintain close contact with the other departments. Good and close dialogue with user organisations is also important in this work. I want to highlight the following important efforts that help the government to have a coherent and coordinated policy design: we are working on a new common law on equality and discrimination – an important objective of lawmaking is to provide a good protection against discrimination for all. Our technical directorate, Bufdir, is constantly working on strengthening knowledge development and getting better documentation on living conditions for people with disabilities. I have put down a sample to review the fundamental rights of people with developmental disabilities. This investigation will be ready for the autumn. I have recently launched a new action plan on universal design, involving ten departments in different actions. I follow up the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including in dialogue with civil society and the sectoral authorities. I prioritise dialogue and cooperation with disabled people's organisations. In order to develop a good and comprehensive offer for people with disabilities, we need to listen to those who know where the shoe prints. It is therefore important for the government to have a good dialogue with the organisations of the disabled. This is done through both contractual meetings, ongoing cooperation in individual areas and cooperation on joint events. Also underlying activities, such as: the Directorates have similar meetings with relevant organisations in this field. In my view, bureaucratic meeting structures do not necessarily contribute to a better dialogue. I am busy having direct contact and listening to the user organisations. I have taken the initiative to set up an annual round table, where relevant themes are addressed, based on the input from the organisations. The annual round table is coordinated by me and my department, but the relevant expert councils also participate. I experience that this meeting point helps organisations to make direct representations to the government on political issues that they think are central to addressing. Much of this work is done in the municipalities. All municipalities should have advice for people with disabilities. It is important that they provide advice in municipal work outside the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e970	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I can't see that I got any answer to the question I was really asking. But I must then interpret the Council of State so that she disagrees with the organisations of the disabled when they say that the policy is not linked, in their alternative report to the UN Committee. Then I have to say I'm a little surprised when the Council of State says that she priorities dialogue, but doesn't want many meetings, and refers to that there has now been one meeting, one round table conference. Is this the way in which participation and cooperation with the organisations of the disabled are put in place in the ministry, or what other measures have the Council of State taken to have systematic contact with the organisations of the disabled?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e977	I am well aware that the organisations have stated that they believe that there is too little coordination of this work in the government. In any case, I can assure the representative that this is a work which I have prioritised as a Council of State in these years, and thus has a close and good dialogue with the other departments. We have also drawn up action plans across the departments, because very many of the measures requested by the organisations are active in the other departments. But it is important to have the coordinating work, and so it is that we – both the Directorates and the Department – have regular, annual, fixed meeting points with the organisations, and not just one meeting, but several meetings. I also believe that the round table that I have initiated is involved in lifting this work, because we have one annual meeting where the organisations can come and record what areas they want to address, and get direct contact with... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e986	The Council of State confirms in its statements that she has a responsibility to coordinate the government's work on the policy design of the target group we are talking about here. In February of this year, the government amended the investigation manual. Until then, there had been a separate, specific requirement to assess whether the case had an impact on disabled persons. That requirement has now been removed in the investigation manual and replaced by some open questions. It is of particular importance that the Ministry of State ensures that the matters of government have received the necessary assessment. Then my question is to the Council of State: can the Council of State confirm that the cases sent to Stortinget after the amendment of the investigation manual have been assessed in relation to their impact on disabled persons?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e995	The government has changed the instructions, and it is a responsibility that lies below the Minister of Municipal Affairs. What I can assure the representative is that in the work I have as the Coordinating Council, there is ongoing contact with the departments about ensuring that those with disabilities are cared for. Then I believe that the initiatives that the government has already taken, both with proposals for new law, that will strengthen the protection of the discrimination of people with disabilities, the work we have done on the action plan, and the meetings we have – both regular meetings and the annual meeting we have with the organisations – are an important work for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1008	I will ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘How do the Councils see that protection against discrimination against persons with disabilities can be strengthened, while at the same time sending a proposal for a weakened purpose paragraph to be consulted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1015	The government's proposal for a new, common equality and discrimination law has recently been consulted, and we are now working on reviewing the consultation opinions. I believe that the proposals sent at the hearing will provide people with disabilities with better protection of discrimination than the current anti-discrimination and accessibility law, even though today's wording on social barriers to disability has been removed from the scope. The reason for taking this out is that the government wants to give everyone equal protection regardless of the grounds for discrimination. This is against drawing up some basis in the law’s purpose. A purpose provision does not confer any rights and obligations on itself. The rights and obligations result from the other rules of the law. The legislative proposal that has been consulted has its own provisions on universal design and individual organisation that will help to reduce disability barriers. It is clear from these rules that particular attention should be paid to the effectiveness of the organisation in order to reduce disability barriers. We have also proposed more reinforcements that are particularly important to reduce and prevent societal barriers. The government wants everyone to have equal access to education. In this way, the ICT solutions of the school must also be accessible to all. The Discrimination and Accessibility Act, promoted by the previous government, excludes ICT solutions for schools from universal design. We have now proposed that the universal nature of ICT should also apply to the education and training sector. In addition, we have proposed extending the ban on recruitment to disability. The employer should not be allowed to collect information about something they are not allowed to pay attention to in any case. The specific clarification of today's purpose is therefore repeated and realised in other rules of the law and is therefore in no way lost in our legislative proposal. Furthermore, the proposal for a new objective provision makes it clear that the law should promote equality and prevent discrimination on grounds of disability, and that equality requires accessibility and organisation. Therefore, we believe that the proposal which has been consulted will collectively strengthen the protection against discrimination against persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1038	Governments have in a lot of other things I know, worked well with organizations and talked warmly about good ideas and good ideas about the policy to be pursued, but not here, according to the organizations. Many recordings have come from organisations. The council says it's wrapped up in the law that is. To what extent does the Council of State follow up the unambiguous objections that the organisations have raised that they have not taken part in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1045	As I replied in my letter, a bill has now been out at the hearing. We are now working on a review of the recordings that have been made at the hearing. Then we will come back to Stortinget with a final bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1050	Sometimes an undo can go a little bit fast. Since this is about something that society has a responsibility to facilitate, and also about what kind of attitudes we have to facilitate, will I challenge the Council of State to the following: would she do it differently if she could start again, and remove the proposal for a weakened purpose paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1055	It remains to be seen when the Stortinget gets the final bill for consideration. Now we're working on going through the hearing opinions that have come, and that's, of course, something that will always be done when we listen to the opinions on what has been at the hearing. But I just want to stress that the objective of the legislative proposal that has been consulted is to create a stronger protection for those who need protection from discrimination. The other steps we've taken are in and strengthen the rights of those people who need it, who have a disability. The question then is that what is to be mentioned in a purpose provision is the most about symbols, and I believe that there are real rights and obligations in the law that are important. That is also what I said that the barriers of people with disabilities are mentioned in other provisions of the law. What we also need to do is to strengthen the protection of people with disabilities on several points, but this should give the Storting a real opportunity to deal with and debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1068	‘16. On June 1, 2015, The Stortinget unanimously adopted: 'The government is asking the government to conduct an overall public investigation into the palliation field, with a wide range of representations from different disciplines, and where children's palliation is part of the work.' [[NUE]] When is it expected that this sample will be reduced and can start its work?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1075	The task of responding to the request of the Grand Duchy to set up a sample to carry out an overall public inquiry is in the process of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The follow-up to the Storting Decision is a high priority and will be implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1080	Both the environment and some of us are a little worried about the time use here, and therefore I would like to challenge the state council even more in terms of time use. Is it realistic to see that the sample is at least put down and going to work before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1085	Council of State Sanner, no, Council of State Höie – right to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1088	That heart is full of, running its mouth over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1093	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1096	We are now working very specifically on this work, so we are going to comply with that decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1101	I don't know if I should be reassured about the answer from Höie or not. I just want to repeat that there are great expectations in the environment and among the politicians here in the house that this work will be undertaken quickly, and that it will be a broad and proper representation from the different environments. Nor is it possible to undermine the fact that there have been some complications with the dialogue, for example. between the Health Directorate and part of the organisations here. Can the Council of State also assure me that it is followed up, with the broad representation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1106	Yes, we are working on a very good mandate, but also on a good and broad composition of this sample just to follow up what is the Stortinge's wish, and I have prioritised that with us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1115	‘User-led personal assistance is an important offer to ensure equality, equality and social participation for people with disabilities and a high need for assistance. [[BPA]] BPA means a great deal to the possibility of participation in employment, education and an active and independent life. The previous government presented proposals for the right-to-holding of BPA. New rules entered into force on 1 January 2015. The strengths and weaknesses of the municipalities are reported. How has the government followed up BPA towards the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1122	Representative Kjerkol and I agree on the importance of user-driven personal assistance for both equivalency, equality and social participation. Therefore, this government presented a reinforced proposal on the right to user-led personal assistance compared to the consultation proposal sent out by the previous government. The right was extended to support contacts and relief for persons with parental responsibility for disabled children under 18 years of age. For the government, it is important to improve everyday life also for relatives and to recognise the significant efforts they make. That's why we extended the right. The introduction of the right in 2015 compensated the municipalities by 300 million. kr through the free revenues. In 2016, the government increased the compensation by another 205 million. kr. Furthermore, the Ministry issued a circular on the right to user-controlled personal assistance in December 2015. The circular takes account of the understanding and practice of the system of user-led personal assistance, in line with the new provision. This will give users and municipalities guidance on how to understand the new right. In addition, we have launched an evaluation of the right to follow developments in municipalities after the time of the introduction. The follow-up evaluation has a time horizon of about two years and started in the summer of 2015. The central association of municipalities is involved in this work through the consultation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1133	Thanks for the answer. This is a new arrangement. It is a reassuring arrangement to follow the development of the scheme, together with relevant actors such as KS. I also believe that individual municipalities – those who have been early in designing the scheme and want this to be a successful offer in their municipalities – will be particularly involved in this. I have a follow-up question, and I understand that it may be difficult for the Council of State to answer it: The user organisations were particularly concerned about whether those who had a basis under the rights strike would be offered a lower price. We know examples from some municipalities that this may have happened. How does the Council of State view that challenge, and what is his impression of how it has ‘moved’ to use a trundle expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1144	It is difficult to give a concrete answer to that, but we know that in terms of the practice of the right and also the practice of what I am very concerned about, that although a group has now received a right to user-driven personal assistance, it does not mean that the old system, namely that the municipalities have an obligation to offer and facilitate user-driven personal assistance to the groups in addition to those who have rights, still applies. It is a very important question for the representative to address, namely whether the allocation of hours is adapted in such a way that some people feel that they are below the right limit, but it is one of the issues that we will receive answers to in the evaluation. Then we chose to introduce this from 1 January 2015, even though we were not ready with the circular. This means that there's probably been more uncertainty in the municipalities in the first year, without the new circular, than we'll probably experience in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1149	I thank you for your answer. I understand that it is difficult to give very precise assessments, we do not have enough experience, but I hear that the Council of State is concerned about exactly the conditions that we have already been signaled can occur. I just want to encourage that in the further process, when this is to be followed by research, very strongly involve user organisations. So the Council of States can choose to answer that, but it's probably more of a call than a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1154	I'll take that call. The user organisations are also well involved in the work with the circular, and I experience that they believe that it responds to a part of the uncertainty that was created. For example, Uloba writes that the rest of the BPA is “A recipe for freedom”. I think that is a good stamp, and the Norwegian Barriers' Association says that it is important that the government no longer ‘prohibits travel’. This is very good, so I experience that the user organisations, and also I Assistance, have given good feedback on the interpretation of the law that has been written around, and as they were – that is my impression – well involved in the development of the in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1163	‘In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government announced its intention to launch a phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in 2016. The Ministry of Health and Welfare received in 2014 reports from the Directorate of Health for such an escalation plan, which was based on recordings by user, professional and stakeholder organisations. Will the government produce such a stepping-up plan in 2016, how will the initiative be financed, and how will the government ensure the development of competence and capacity in the municipalities and specialist services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1170	It is correct, as the representative Toppe says, that the government has announced an escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and that it should have its main focus on the offer in the municipalities. It has been important for the government to see this escalation plan in conjunction with other ongoing processes in this field. In Report. St. 26 for 2014–2015, the Primary Health Service of the Future – proximity and overall, the challenges of rehabilitation and rehabilitation are fully addressed in a separate chapter. The government has also announced in this communication that we will legislate for the competence of municipal health and care services, which has been endorsed by the Stortinget. The Ministry intends to follow up the proposal for legislative changes mentioned in the Communication and its examination by the Storting. This will take the form of a consultation note before the summer of 2016. The Health Directorate came last autumn with a counsellor on rehabilitation, habilitation, individual planning and coordinator. The supervisor is a useful tool for municipalities and specialist health services in organising habilitation and rehabilitation, and it shows the importance of having a rehabilitative focus in the services. In order to enable municipalities to provide citizens with a professionally good multidisciplinary rehabilitation offer, the government will present a stepping-up plan during 2016. The details of how the bet will be financed and the measures that will be included in the plan will, therefore, come back to the government when the plan is submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1183	I thank you for your answer. It was uncertain whether the plan would come in 2016 or not, but now the Council of State determines that the plan of escalation will be promoted by Stortinget during 2016, and that is very good. There is also uncertainty about funding. I heard that the council wouldn't go into it, but I could think about it once more. There are at least questions from organisations about whether this comes as an ear-marked tool, whether it comes in the same way as for the escalating plan for the drug field, with some specific ear-marked bets and otherwise as another bet. At least there is a lot of attention around this that there has to be a follow-up to money with such a bet, so I would like to ask again if the Council of State can say something more about how one has thought that the financing of the escalation of rehabilitation and rehabilitation will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1190	This is how we aim to present an escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. As regards its content and its financing, it will of course be presented in the plan, and as the representative knows, there are the kinds of questions that a Council of State cannot answer before the plan is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1195	I have another question then. The government has proposed that larger municipalities be given greater responsibility for the rehabilitation services currently provided by the specialist services. Today, according to reports from the Health Directorate, we know that the municipalities have gradually been given a greater responsibility for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation field, but that people have been printed faster from the specialist services, and in many municipalities, they are not built up to meet the demand. We also know that in the specialist services there is a lack of provision for at least a number of groups. Is it a good idea to transfer more responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1200	Local authorities have different ways of caring for their responsibilities in this area, and there are also many indications that there are differences in the capacity and competence of municipalities in this area. I am not in doubt that larger municipalities will be able to assume greater responsibility for rehabilitation and rehabilitation and also have the opportunity to offer better services to the inhabitants than if this offer were given in the specialist health service, precisely because rehabilitation and rehabilitation for many patient groups are about getting help for mastering in everyday life, and these are offers and responsibilities that the municipalities, if they have large enough professional environments, are well suited to have. It is not appropriate to transfer responsibility for rehabilitation as such to the municipalities. It will also continue to be a responsibility for the specialist health service to have an offer in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. How this is to be distributed, we will come back in a separate consultation note before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1209	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘To many patients it is a demanding and difficult time to go and wait for serious scheduled operations. Once they've prepared for a long time and come to the day of the operation, it's important that it actually happens. I have received several enquiries about cancelled scheduled operations at Aarhus. Recently, a patient from an Oslo village was admitted early in the morning, and then got a shocking message in the ten-time about cancelling and printing without a new appointment. What will the Council of State do to prevent such events from occurring?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1218	I have a great deal of understanding that it is felt as a great impression for the patient to be informed that a planned operation has been cancelled or postponed, especially in cases where the patient is informed about this shortly before the scheduled operation is scheduled to take place. I cannot comment on what assessments have been made in the case to which the representative refers. My response explains on a general basis how hospitals deal with situations where operations need to be cancelled and what can be done to prevent such events. In all hospitals that carry out surgery, surgery is sometimes cancelled. There may be different reasons for this. In some cases, the patient’s medical condition will have changed, so that there is no longer an indication of surgery, or the operation must be postponed because the patient has another acute disease. In some cases, a change in the patient’s medical condition may require further investigation of the patient prior to any intervention. Sometimes unusually large surgeries of immediate-aid surgery may require that scheduled surgery with a lower degree of urgency must be postponed. But it is important for me to stress that one cannot ignore the fact that operations are cancelled or postponed simply because of poor planning. I have contacted Health South-East about the matter. At Aarhus, the general rule of the cancellation is that the patient is either operated later during the same stay, or is printed with an appointment for a new operating date. It is assumed that there is still an indication of the intervention in question and that there are no medical reasons why the patient needs further investigation before a final decision on any operation can be made. It is the individual hospital department that is following the patient further. The hospital is concerned with facilitating the minimum number of cancellations or deferrals. Nevertheless, it cannot be avoided that a hospital of such size and complexity as Akershu University Hospital may, in some cases, have to cancel or suspend planned operations. The proportion of deferrals relative to the number of operations planned is included as an indicator in the national quality indicator system. The publication of these indicators provides important information to patients on the quality of healthcare. National quality indicators are also part of the quality management and improvement work of health enterprises. I fully agree with what lies ahead in the representative's question, that cancellations due to poor planning are something one should work to reduce further, while one now also works very well to reduce the overall waiting time and sees that there is now good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1233	I thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Council of State takes it seriously and goes into it. I understand you can't deal with a single thing here, it wasn't the intention either, but I wanted to use the power of the example. I just have to say that when I got to describe this case of this patient, I was very upset and engaged, in order to experience preparing for several months, putting about medicine use in good time in advance, being admitted at 6:30 in the morning and then being printed out at 10: 00 a.m. without a new appointment, is not as it should be. This is not about cases where there are medical reasons – I have now been informed that the patient has finally got a new agreement – but about poor planning. I hope that the Council of State agrees that it is advisable to try to turn around when such situations arise, to use the operating equipment a little longer a day or to find other solutions, because the hospital itself has been in an emergency situation when such a loss is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1238	I fully agree with the representative, and I also get upset when I hear those kinds of stories. As described here, it should not be, and in the cases where the hospital is in such a situation that they cannot give surgery that day, as I said in my answer, they should give patients a new hour, so that one feels secure that one is not forgotten. We are now working quite systematically on how to help hospitals improve their planning horizon. The amendment which entered into force on 1 November, in which patients should, as a general rule, be given the date and time at which the examination or treatment is to be given, is also mandatory for hospitals to have a longer planning horizon. We see that it is a challenge in some of the Norwegian hospitals that activity is planned for a short time to come, and it also creates unnecessary situations. It does not help to have a patient called for surgery if the doctor is at a seminar.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1245	My concern when I started going into this and talking to the patient and others who knew him was that there were several examples of the same hospital. For example, a patient told me that it was the third time he was there – he got surgery the third time. But what patients can experience is that when you get there you get a number tag, and the number that comes up is a little bit above what you're sure to get away from that day. I think that kind of working methods can be suitable for more factory production, but not for a hospital, where patients go through a very exciting period when they are preparing for serious operations. I would encourage the Council of State to be aware that it may not be that you distribute number plates as in a pharmacy, when you are going to undergo serious surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1250	I fully agree with that, and it is a significant potential for improvement in this area – I fully agree with the representative. However, when we talk about Akershu University Hospital, I would like to highlight that there has been a significant improvement in this hospital in the last year. Many departments have worked very well and systematically to reduce waiting times and provide patients with faster and better services by better planning of their activities. We are getting more and more positive feedback on the development of the hospital. It's important to bring with you in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1260	‘After the terror in Brussels, the PST Chief stated that the main means of combating terrorism and extremism in Norway is to maintain a society of great equality where citizens have confidence in the authorities, the police and the courts. Do the State Council share PST's assessments, and how does he think Norwegian municipalities can best strengthen the work against radicalisation and extremism?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1267	The main task of the authorities is to secure citizens. It is therefore important to fight threats to our governance and our way of life. The fact that citizens trust the authorities, the police and the courts is crucial. I agree with the PST Chief's statement that it is important that there is not too much distance between the governing authorities and the people most, and that there is trust in the authorities and central institutions. In Norway, there are short lines between politicians and citizens, and people have a strong influence on public decision-making. Furthermore, we have a welfare system that should be a safety net for citizens, but also give them the opportunity to develop and participate in society. Trust in the courts and the police is also dependent on these agencies acting objectively and effectively. In recent years, both courts and police have been significantly strengthened. On the issue of how Norwegian municipalities can strengthen their efforts to combat radicalisation and extremism, a number of measures can be taken. The Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism is being followed up by the fact that the measures are now being implemented in both state and municipal terms. The plan originally had 30 measures, but was subsequently supplemented because it was to be a dynamic action plan. Local prevention has a central role to play in several of the action plan’s actions. These are concrete measures that will help to strengthen the work and competence of municipalities. A national supervisor was launched in April 2015 and is available digitally on the government’s radicalisation website.no. There are dedicated contacts with radicalisation in all the previous 27 police districts to act as a contact point for local actors, with concerns about radicalisation. Furthermore, there is a research project in which several municipalities are involved. There is also money allocated to meet and combat extremism. In 2015, a total of 17.5 million was granted. SEK for two grant schemes that have provided many good local projects. Useful experience from these local projects will now be collected and will be made available to other municipalities as appropriate. The subsidy schemes continued for 2016 by 13 million. kr. However, the challenges of radicalisation will vary across municipalities. Some municipalities will work towards the radicalisation of violent Islamists, while others may face challenges with extreme right- and left-wing environments. Therefore, it is also important that the actions we are implementing can be used to a large extent against all forms of radicalisation and facilitate local authorities to adapt their efforts to their challenges. In 2016, we are facing a complex and complex threat picture. Terrorism is the ultimate consequence of radicalisation and violent extremism. Preventive action is therefore central to ensuring fundamental values such as democracy, human rights and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1282	Thank you for the reply from the Minister of Justice. I think it says quite a lot about Norway as a country, about the PST as an organisation and about it being run in a good and wise way, when one could imagine quite a lot of different responses from a PST leader and demands for different instruments the day after a brutal act of terrorism on our own continent, but the employee PST manager looked at this precisely with a trust society and pointed out that the most important thing we do is to have early efforts against vulnerable youth, to prevent marginalisation and to limit ‘drop out’. I am concerned that across the world, across Europe and also in Norway, there are still increasing differences. There are many reasons why I am opposed to increasing differences, but one of them is about security policy. Is the Minister of Justice concerned about a Norway with increasing differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1291	One of the aims of terrorism is to contribute to building under the lines of conflict in society. In some contexts, a person will be able to use changes in society as a basis for creating a form of debate and radicalisation on different aspects of a conflict. There is no doubt that having a social safety network will help to reduce the risk of that kind of ideology getting stronger ground. At the same time, I am not quite sure whether I want to share the questioner's starting point that the differences in Norway are increasing so rapidly. We're a society that has a lot of equality. There is a great deal of participation in democratic processes. We are an open, free society. These are fundamental, fundamental values on which we build our social structure. I do believe that it is important to take care of these interests, and I cannot say that there is a clear tendency that there are increasing differences in Norway that would help undermine it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1296	There are increasing differences in Norway, and the truth is that in the future it will require much stronger instruments than it has historically been to reduce differences, because there are so strong counter-forces that are moving towards increasing differences. The party of progress has never been a party that has been very concerned with combating differences – perhaps on the contrary, it has been quite fine and acceptable that we have a society of increased differences. That is why I again ask whether the Minister of Justice believes it is a political goal, also for security reasons, to maintain a society of small differences and that he will pursue a government policy for reducing differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1303	I believe that the most important steps we can take to have a society that we want to have, a free, democratic society where human rights are at a premium, are to have a good integration policy that allows people who come to Norway to be integrated, become part of society, get a job and become active contributors to the society of which they are to be part. The biggest challenge for Difference Norway today is that one has failed well enough, that is, that one has not been good enough to get our new countrymen involved in various activities, which ensures that they are better integrated and part of the social structure they are to build. There the government is now taking a number of steps to ensure that one succeeds better in integration, to ensure that these people receive both the necessary follow-up and training, get out of work, receive education, etc., which I believe contributes to a society with equal opportunities. It's having equal opportunities to evolve and equal opportunities to participate that's the most important part of it with inequalities or not in a society. I think it's important that one doesn't put this at a level where one goes in, for example. level of taxation or income, etc. That is probably not what has been in focus purely safety-related; it is more that one should have equal opportunities, and that the same opportunities are actually being used and exploited by those who are going to be in Norway, at all levels, not only newcomers, but also those who have always been here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1316	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Immigration and Integration, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Security, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1319	‘Women on refuge are vulnerable. Norway has undertaken to protect women in flight through international conventions. Many are subjected to rape, sexual harassment, and trafficking in human beings. Among them as refugees to Norway, there are many women. What action has the Council of State taken or will it take to identify whether women have been subjected to such criminal acts and to assist those involved in the consequences of such crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1326	Let me first thank the representative Henriksen for a good question about a very important topic for a very vulnerable group. As a starting point, the police shall provide the same services to all those who have been subjected to criminal offences and who wish to report the situation in Norway. This means that persons who come to Norway as asylum seekers can report criminal relations with the police in the same way as all other residents of the country. The police's follow-up of offended persons shall be very good regardless of whether they are Norwegian citizens, asylum seekers or refugees, or, for that matter, foreign nationals residing in Norway for other reasons. Of course, if the act has been carried out abroad, the investigation could be subject to specific challenges, including: biological tracks or other tracks could have been lost due to the time lag between the criminal record and the notification, and interrogations are also more demanding and complicated in experience when the witnesses are outside Norway. I would like to mention that when asylum seekers come to Norway, they will receive information on women’s rights, equality and violence in close relations at reception. In 2015, five police districts also received their own funds for setting up specialised groups to combat trafficking in human beings. The effect of this is expected to be seen beyond 2016. Persons who are victims of sexual abuse, trafficking in human beings or other serious integrity-affecting crimes are often in a very vulnerable situation, and there are procedures and measures that are also important for the group the representative refers to — women and children who have fled to Norway. I'll say something about those measures as well. It is true that the auxiliaries and the police can catch up with women who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings in the course of their journey to Norway. In particular, it is important that women who are also exploited after arrival in Norway are identified and given the necessary follow-up and assistance after it has been clarified. This depends not least on the competence of the professionals coming into contact with these potential victims. Each police district is responsible for the prevention, detection and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. Victims or others who wish to report shall address their local police in the usual way. The police are then obliged to assess the threat situation of the victim and to assess the measures to be taken. They can also provide protection for witnesses who report trafficking in human beings. The police are responsible for registering asylum seekers in Norway, and they also have special follow-up procedures for potential victims of trafficking in human beings and other crimes, including sexual abuse. Employees are trained in what may be possible indicators to identify any victims. The registration interview shall also facilitate such identification. If necessary and necessary, the PU will notify child protection, UDI and asylum recipients in the relevant police district and, where appropriate, Kripos, depending on the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1345	Thank you for a thorough and good answer. There is a cross-political consensus on combating violence and abuse against women and children and against people in close relations, so I think to the extent that there was an adequate response from the Council of State. But Amnesty has two reports, one from 2014, that show that women on the run are, as the Council of State said, in a very vulnerable situation, and they have also done an interview now in 2016, with women, who show that they are being harassed and actually exposed to this type of crime by government officials on the run across the country. So if you could elaborate a little bit on what signals you've given to your underlying agencies explicitly about this group? I have asked the same question to the councillor Horne, and then she also mentioned this by giving information about the laws and regulations, but when I talk to the outside apparatus, they say that it can be a little variable how it is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1350	The President recalls that the question should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1353	It's a complex problem. It's a serious problem, but it's also very complex, firstly because this is the crime these women are being subjected to very often on a trip to Norway. It creates the challenges I faced in my answer to the evidence situation, questioning, following up like that. Another challenge that makes it extra demanding is that this is still, and perhaps especially for many of the women who are on the run, a very taboo and difficult area. It often takes more time before they get the strength and courage to go to the police, also because they have different experiences with the authorities of their home country, and different experiences related to follow-up, reports and contact with the police. That's why we're primarily focused on creating the necessary trust relationship, so that these women get confidence in the police, get confidence in the authorities, so that they can come up with their stories. It's first and foremost important not only for the correction and follow-up of criminal matters, but perhaps first and foremost to provide the women with the follow-up they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1360	Governments were concerned with some of the important issues, and this is the case with prevention. It's also important because it makes it possible for us to integrate these women well, so that they don't live their lives with traumatized experiences that make them excluded from work when they're going to stay here. I think that's important. Governments also point this out with the need for competence. I have to say that I react with some concern – and there is nothing under the responsibility of the Council of State – when the Health Directorate now gives signals that they will not carry out health checks on newly arrived asylum seekers. The feedback I have received from both trade unions and those who are in contact with refugees says that it is quite important, precisely because, as the Council of State says, these women are so vulnerable, and it takes time to establish these contacts. I would then like to use my last question to ask whether the Council of State will encourage the Minister of Health not to listen to the advice of the Health Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1369	I think it is best for the Minister of Health to make his assessments on an independent basis, but I fully agree with the representative Henriksen that it is necessary to have expertise and knowledge along the way in such a process. We believe that someone has arranged for this, among other things. through police registration interview, where to look at clear indicators, and then there will never be a good enough tool, one will never be able to find everyone, but one will then be able to find someone who will get the help and follow-up they depend on. I am pleased – and it is not under my responsibility – that one in the receptions has the competence and follow-up of those who have been involved in trafficking in human beings. And I'm also very happy that we now have a competence in the police, which is of a completely different dimension than we've had in the past, to handle and help people who have been exposed to human trafficking and sexual abuse on their way to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1383	My question is: ‘The Council of State rejected in January the fact that Norway should accept a greater proportion of refugees with disabilities, despite being among the most vulnerable in areas of war and conflict and having a specific requirement for protection under the UN Convention. She said at the same time that we need to be better at settling the few coming here. They often stay in reception for a long time, because the municipalities refuse to accept them. What does the Council of State intend to do to improve this situation, which is of little value to society as well as to individuals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1392	I think it's great that the representative of Christoffersen has a great commitment to refugees with disabilities. Migration refugees accepted by Norway through UNHCR will be the most vulnerable and many will suffer from disability. As I mentioned earlier, Norway increased the number of medical places twice in 2015, and the level now in 2016 is 60 places. Municipalities do a good job of making provision for refugees who need extra follow-up. They also receive specific compensation for this. It is voluntary for municipalities to settle refugees, and I want it still to be so. Expecting municipalities to settle several refugees in need of special follow-up would be unreasonable at this stage. In 2015, around 2,380 transfer refugees arrived in Norway. More than once have health challenges. The current withdrawal criteria are not an obstacle to this. A group of about 1000 people have arrived in the last five years, giving rise to grants by settling persons with seriously known disabilities and/or behavioural disabilities. This includes both resident transfer refugees and residents from reception. The waiting time for these persons corresponds mainly to the waiting time for other residents. There are currently about 24 residents who have arrived as asylum seekers and who have organised offers in reception. They have special needs because they have physical or mental disorders, behavioural problems or chronic disorders. This group of people chooses municipalities to settle. It is justified that these persons incur considerable costs and resources. I am committed to Norway having a sustainable policy on the reception of transfer refugees, and to accepting those who need it the most. The government has a good dialogue with the local government in terms of housing, including those with disabilities. The work done by the IMDI in this regard is very important, and also that they of course follow this up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1405	If I interpret the Council of States correctly, I see that the Council of States is so pleased with what is being done now, and that we cannot demand that it do more. But in the KS settlement agreement, the department has committed itself to identifying more likely refugees, including those with special needs. In the new disability 1/16, the UDI says that they lack an overview of those who are ready-to-residence refugees with such needs because few asylum seekers are talking about disability. So it might be more than the 24 that the Council of State is now referring to, that will have that kind of need. Councillor Horne said here earlier today that she is concerned that all departments have a good knowledge base for their policies. When UDI says that very few asylum seekers are talking about disability, will the Council take the initiative to make sure that someone more is asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1412	It is true that interviews are carried out by those who are expected to be in charge in Norway, who are then treated for their applications. It is then natural that this information can be provided there as well as, of course, when the IMDi is to pass these persons on to the municipalities. Of course, it is essential that the municipalities then have an overview of this. Of course, mapping this is important, and it's a work that we can definitely get better at. But there's something that we have to keep going. I think to the extent that the municipalities do a good job with this. They receive additional grants if there are people who require a lot of both economic costs and not least other resources. Because it's not always just costs that are the challenge, it can also be that you need to have personnel and some resources beyond that, which are demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1419	The Council of State said in its first response that refugees with disabilities are also settled within the same framework as other refugees, but we know that the goal is to settle families with children within three months, we can't do that today. In the same disability news that I referred to, it is told of a Syrian family with a strong nursing son – father is an economist, mother is a pharmacist. They want to work and contribute. But 220 municipalities said no, and they stayed at the reception for one year, until the municipality of Farsund said yes. And they're not the only ones. In those kinds of things, it's obvious that this is not going to be a negative and a negative plus, which we learned at school, but here is going to be a negative and a negative to a double minus-- at least. So I wonder, is the goal of resettlement of families with children established within three months? Does this apply to all children anyway? And if so, why don't we succeed in achieving that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1426	It's been a tough time for the foreign agencies now, and we're going to do what we can to settle people quickly. So we know that in the case of the small municipalities, it can be very demanding to settle those who require a lot of resources – not just because of the financial, but also because you need to have a lot of staff, which it might not be as easy to get anywhere in the country. Therefore, it is important to facilitate that the municipalities that want it and have the opportunity to do so can actually accept them. We're going to work for these people to settle. The IMDI focuses on that. They will continue because it is important for us to get these people out of reception and living in Norwegian municipalities. But it's equally important to stress that I'm against coercion. Therefore, this has to be on a voluntary basis, and we have to work with the municipalities to find these solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1437	‘The Government proposes that the new five-year teacher education should include 60 educational credits, which in today’s four-year period run, but 15 of these credits should be devoted to religion, life views and ethics. The result is less pedagogy, even in an extended 5-year run. It is also suggested that one should not be able to go into pedagogics in the master's degree project, for example. write about issues such as bullying, learning environment and behavioral difficulties. In what way does the Council of State feel that this provides better teacher training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1444	The most important thing about the five-year master-level teacher training is to provide the framework for a high-quality education geared to the needs of the school. The draft framework plan, which has just been consulted, provides for the master’s gradation of the students to be in the field of education or in initial training. It is also proposed that elements of the subject area of religion, life-view and ethics – in the subject today called pedagogics and student knowledge – be clarified in a separate module. The professional communities have been concerned that the pedagogical profession will not have sufficient place in new primary school teacher training and that students will not be able to work on important issues such as bullying and learning difficulties in their master's thesis. The aim of the new primary school teacher training is not to train master candidates in the Nordic and pedagogical sciences. The aim of practical vocational training is to train master’s candidates who can meet the school’s needs. There is no and should not be any contradiction between deepening a school curriculum and addressing issues related to, for example: class management, behavioral difficulties and bullying. In the master syllabuses, these themes shall be inserted into a professional context. This requires a master's gradation that emphasizes both pedagogics, disciplines and disciplines. The mixing relationship between these elements will hardly be specified in the regulation and there is a high degree of professional freedom with regard to emphasis at the individual teacher training institution. How it is handled is also a matter of institutional management. It is right, as the representative points out, that we are now proposing to separate knowledge about religion, life and ethics into a separate module of 15 study credits integrated into the new PEL subject, i.e. the pedagogics and the learning profession. This is important because the school is becoming more diverse, both ethnically, religiously and culturally. This is also about good class management in multicultural classes, not more education in religion as such. These are, as I mentioned earlier, largely elements that are already part of today's subject. What we're doing is we're making it clear, and that doesn't mean a cut in pedagogics. So we have now had a draft framework plan for consultation. We take the hearing seriously and we want to get really involved in the recordings we get before we define the final plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1457	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is possible that I have a bit of a hard time doing this, but I'm sorry, because the government is proposing to expand teacher training from being a four-year education with 240 study credits to becoming a five-year master's education with 300 study credits, without expanding the study credits in what is called pedagogy – pedagogical or learning skills – rather on the contrary. The trade becomes even more compact because 15 of the 60 credits allocated are to be locked into religion, life vision and ethics. For me, the answer to the question I'm going to ask is obvious. But is it right for the Council of State to say that pedagogics are being strengthened or weakened in the new teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1462	I don't think the representative has much to do with it in any way, but there are two different questions. Mathematically, the PEL subject – what is today the PEL subject, regardless of what it should be called – even if we separate a separate module related to RLE-related competence objectives, will not become larger. But it is not the case that the different disciplines – or work with masters – should not also involve working with the educational disciplines, and that is my main point: firstly, that today's PEL is not a purely pedagogical subject that is owned by the educational disciplines alone, and secondly, that in the work on the master's thesis one will of course also have to draw on educational disciplines, educational disciplines, and what might be called purely professional environments. That's why we've argued that the pedagogy of a five-year master's education will be strengthened, not weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1467	The definition of pedagogics is: «a scientific field dealing with matters relating to education and training, learning and development». That's a reason we have it as our own subject in teacher training today, because it's important, and it's absolutely central knowledge that all teachers need. It's raised above any doubt, and the Council of State actually confirmed it now, too, that the proportion of pedagogics, mathematically speaking, is weakened in the new teacher training. But what is the argument for not being able to have vocational qualifications in pedagogics when it comes to professional qualifications in Norwegian, math and English? Why shouldn't you be able to write master problems about, for example, bullying, guidance, adapted training, parental cooperation or learning difficulties?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1477	Just to correct: I say that the PEL subject – regardless of what it is called – because it does not receive more credits, but it will be one year longer, of course, will make up a smaller proportion, but not so that educational work or the contribution of the pedagogical disciplines to teacher training is limited to one subject. And it would be very unnatural if at the moment you start working on mastering tasks, which should be practical mastering tasks that the sector needs and needs, cutting off, for example. the educational disciplines. That's the starting point for us to argue that this is being strengthened, not weakened. There are now pure pedagogical masters at several educational institutions. They are employed today, and they can also be employed in the future. The reason why we have chosen not to say that we should be able to have masters in it – we also do not make purely discipline masters in education such as English, Norwegian and mathematics – is that what we want to develop further is professional competence, i.e. professional competence, but related to school practice. That's why we haven't created or given access to it in science, such as science. special pedagogy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1488	‘The government has announced that they will launch an app where the refugees themselves will register their own competences. To the NRK, the Council of State has claimed that it must have ‘employed 500 people who walked around and asked the refugees, but the problem is that that information would not have been used’. Where did the Council of State pick up this number from?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1495	The first question I asked myself was, where did the representative Marianne Aasen get this number from? In the NRK case, there's an indirect quote from me, where it says: “He says they could have hired 500 people who went around and asked the refugees, but the problem is that that information would not have been used.” I want to be very clear that it was an oral answer. It was an exemplification. It wasn't based on a statement or a detailed calculation. This was an oral answer, an exemplification, and I did not say that someone had to have an employee, I said that you could have an employee. So I guess what's most interesting, which I'm going to spend some time on, is saying something about why we've chosen the solution we've chosen – an electronic solution. It is important to identify skills quickly, but it is also important to set up a competence monitoring system that can last over time. In particular, if we see that the influx of asylum and refugees to Norway is increasing again, we need a system that does not depend on us creating short-term solutions. What has been our assessment is that an electronic solution will help all refugees who are most likely to stay, not just a small sample, to register their competence. In addition, the solution could also be used for quota refugees before coming to Norway. There's a solution that's unbureaucratic, and it's easy to scale up, no matter how many it's worth identifying. Of course, the purpose is that I am absolutely sure that the representative shares, namely to give the individual refugee an opportunity to provide information on the full range of his/her skills, from professional experience, language skills, basic skills to formal education, etc. And then, when the electronic solution is available and in place, resource use could be linked to vocational and education guidance, qualification measures and other training and training measures, which are of course important. It is also stated that this information can be used further in the public system, i.e. it is not a one-off mapping that you have to fill in several times, but that you can take it with you later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1515	Thank you, it was clarifying what this number is, so it's out of the world, in and out of the way, but what I want to follow up with is this with the value of self-reporting, which is highly questionable. There are several people who have expressed themselves in that context, around this, among other things. Vice-Chancellor Ole Petter Ottersen of the University of Oslo, who says that we are in danger of wasting both human and financial resources. He wants a hard time to have the competence verified to a greater extent and believes the proposal from NOKUT would have done it much faster. SOMEKUT yourself, at Stig Arne's scurvy, says: ‘We want to use an assembly band method to make simple assessments of their competence.’ Is that not what is crucial here: self-reporting can be useful, but the important thing is the verification of competence. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1525	I am very pleased that academic Norway not only speaks out, but also participates in the efforts of refugees and asylum seekers who have come to Norway. So it's not like this system is going to replace the formal approval system we have today. We have already given NOKUT additional resources in the current year both to recognise foreign vocational training – that was among others. a desire of the parties after the last year’s wage settlement — and to deal with the large queues of people from other countries who wish to formally approve their education. This system cannot replace a formal NOCUT approval by, for example: an engineering education from the home country. What is also important to remember is that among the people who come, and probably also among those who will come, there are a lot of people who don't have a educational background that allows them to just seal the holes through courses at the University of Oslo or in Bergen or elsewhere. Very many people want informal qualifications. Many will, for example, could have more languages without formal schooling, and then this, I believe, is a good tool to supplement the NOCUT process we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1534	This will take some time, because this app will be developed and implemented, and will probably not be used until 2017. In the meantime, it's pretty boisterous, the means that are set aside for NOKUT for this. What's real is that many people sit and wait for trial, if they're allowed to stay. Then there is no mapping. So, once they have received a residence permit, some of them, this self-service app is to come, and then this is to be verified further, where they then enter a new queue. And then the years go by. Isn't it very unfortunate, both for individuals and for society, that we can't get a better organized system? And I'm going back to Ole Petter Ottersen, who says it's a waste of human resources to do it this way when you could go straight on the case and get verified immediately and set up a bonding mechanism – where you immediately had the competence verified.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1543	I'm going to be so humble to say that there are a lot of good arguments for the solution we didn't choose. It would imply that in some way representatives from, for example: NOW, or elsewhere, went around and got access to asylum seekers sitting on reception, and then had a kind of mapping of them there. It would probably not mean that one could provide a formal approval or not over the table. It requires the same system that we have today. What I think is the advantage of this is that it is a system that can last over time, and it will also stand if 30 000–45 000 asylum seekers arrive next year, and 30 000 years after that. We don't know how many will come, probably fewer because of tightening, but nevertheless it can be the situation. This does not replace the fact that NOKUT has also been strengthened in its resources, and that it must also have progress and priority in the formal recognition of higher education — and also money that has been given to academic institutions to make arrangements to fill the gaps in competence that many have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1556	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘What is the government doing to ensure that all pupils in school are given equivalent training, where all students are allowed to participate in the pupil community, where all students are included in the statistics governing Norwegian school development, where all students have textbooks, where students who are most in need of sexual education are also given such training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1563	I would like to thank you for an interesting and comprehensive question that concerns a lot of issues, on how to ensure that all students in school are given equivalent training. Let me begin by stating that all children and young people in Norway are entitled to training and to attend their secondary school. Secondly, all students have the right to have training adapted to their abilities and assumptions. This includes, inter alia: that pupils who do not benefit satisfactorily from regular training are entitled to special education. It is important for all students to participate in the pupil community. All students also have the right to a good school environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. Students shall be divided into groups or classes and shall have so much of the training in this group as to satisfy their basic social needs. All students are included in the statistics that will govern Norwegian school development, so I'm talking about the statistics. The quality assessment system was introduced in 2004 and has since then been further developed in order to contribute as much as possible to the development of training provision at individual schools. The quality assessment system provides, inter alia: knowledge of learning outcomes, implementation and learning environment. The aim is to provide a good basis for setting objectives and priority actions to develop the quality of training, both nationally and locally. National tests and student surveys may be the most well-known parts of this system. The national samples are compulsory. However, students entitled to special education or to specific language training may be exempted from the national tests. In order to be exempted, it must be clear that the test results will have no effect on the further training of the students. However, the student himself, or the student's parents, may decide that the student is to carry out the test. Equal training is also linked to the provision of educational material to all students. Both primary and secondary education must be free of charge, i.e. paid by the public fund and not by the individual, which means that students are provided with the necessary education and digital equipment they need in training. Finally, the representative asks how students who are most in need of sexual education receive such training. I want to show that all the students will be trained on issues related to sexuality. The training is anchored in the general part of the curriculum, in the principles of training and in the objectives of competence for different subjects. This training should also be adapted to the pupils. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the government has several competence initiatives to ensure that students receive high-quality training. We are making a major effort – the bet of the times – to further training for teachers, and in the autumn of 2015, more than 5,000 teachers were offered to participate. All the country's secondary schools have the opportunity to participate in the development of youth, the aim being a more practical and varied education to provide better learning and results for students. And through the school-based continuing education initiative Skills for diversity, schools were also able to support students with a minority background even better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1582	On February 25, this year, the Evening Post referred to a case of a Danish study showing that 6 out of 10 youths who have committed sexual assault on other children go to special schools or special classes. And in a comment on that matter, the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled, NFU, claims that students with developmental disabilities are largely excluded from sexual education at school. Sexual education is important both to safeguard sexuality and to learn to set their own boundaries, but also to learn about sexual diversity and to respect the borders of others. What is the Council of State thinking about the claim that people with a developmental disability do not receive sexual education in school today, and what will the Council of State do to ensure a better sexual education for that particular group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1589	I also read that matter, but I have to admit that I do not remember all the details in that newspaper now. But as I said, regardless of disability or other planning needs, you have a course that is qualitatively as good as that of any other student. All students in Norway are entitled to sexual training, and it must also be adapted. Of course, this is not something we sit and control in detail from the department, but that means that if you like. to teach a group of students with special needs for organisation, it would be natural for the teacher to adapt it to it. So the question is, if you think that the students don't get this type of education, and that it's systematic that they don't get it, then of course it'll be the first to report it to the responsible school and say that this is something that all the students should have, and if not, report it to the county, which is usually the body that controls this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1598	Governments have mentioned an inclusive school and adapted training. Then it's interesting that Professor Eva Simonsen claims that the so-called knowledge school has replaced the inclusion school, and then the professor refers to the Department of Knowledge's proposal for a new five-year teacher education. The proposal gives rise to strong reactions, including: because it is stated that knowledge of special pedagogics is not necessarily ensured for future teachers and that special pedagogics are marginalised by not being a subject of their own. That's why heavy players, like Professor Simonsen, fear getting a school where just fewer students fit in. Therefore, my question is: How will the Council of State ensure, even through a teacher education, an inclusive school in which all children learn and are seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1605	The question of the pedagogical subject, or what is today called pedagogics and student knowledge, and the position it has in a future 5-year master's education, I answered in the previous question. I believe that the educational disciplines will be strengthened, and not weakened. In the case of special education as a master's programme, it is quite right that we have said that there should not be a separate, countable master's programme in primary education, but that does not mean that issues related to it should be learning environment, class management, adapted training, not part of teacher's training. Rather, this is a very important part of teacher training. Among other things, I have the teachers of the future, to the extent that they have not learned it in the past, for example. must be able to recognise students who have serious difficulties in reading and writing that it is an important part of it. Then I don't share that there should be a contradiction between inclusion and knowledge. I'm deeply and fundamentally in disagreement with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1625	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1634	This question, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1637	‘The government has opened up a series of tasks to transfer to municipalities that may impair the conditions of the disabled. This has encountered strong resistance from user organisations. An expert committee with a broad mandate has now been appointed to assess the responsibilities of the aid policy, but VTA is not part of the investigation. Will the Council of State submit to a professional and broad investigation where user organisations are involved before a final decision on the responsibility for VTA is taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1644	The Government proposed that the financing and management of the measure be permanently organised work, VTA, and permanently organised work in ordinary enterprises, VTO, for the purpose of transfer to municipalities. The notification was addressed in Stortinget on 9 June 2015. In the opinion, the majority of the Committee states that: «the responsibility for aids and long-term job creation is already partly municipal responsibility and users need a full range of services. The aim is to strike a natural balance between state responsibility and municipal responsibility through the investigations. The focus of the solution chosen shall be on users’ concerns’. Before the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs assesses the matter further, I would like to try out changes in the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality through an experiment in a smaller number of municipalities. The test municipalities will be given greater responsibility for the tasks and actions related to the target population concerned. The aim is to gain more information and knowledge about the benefits and disadvantages of a transfer and whether a transfer of the full responsibility for the action to municipalities can lead to an improved offer to the target audience. The potential for improvement of a transfer to municipalities may lie in the proximity of municipalities to users, local employment and the possibility of better coordination between permanent work and other municipal services. It is difficult to assess the extent to which the potential can be realised without first testing it in practice. It is still too early to say something about the concrete design and duration of the experiment. The objective is to pool experience through the experiment that can contribute to a good basis for an assessment of where responsibility should lie in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1660	For the Workers' Party, permanent work is a labour market measure. There is a state responsibility today, or we see no reason to separate part of it and add it to the municipalities. Now I hear that the Council of State wants to make an effort. But it's been one year since Stortinget dealt with the task message. It concerns 9 000 people for whom there is a considerable uncertainty, who are concerned about the future and their actions. I hear the Council of State can't say anything about the time perspective here, but I want to stress that when you put people's lives in an uncertain situation, it's important that you get a clarification. I could also imagine asking what dialogue the Council of State has had with the organisations of disabled people, both in terms of the experiment and the process ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1667	The task message and the decisions that were taken were taken before my time. But I have recorded that there have been some concerns related to this particular question, and that is the background that I have thought that before we conclude on the final division of tasks, it makes sense to try it first. For my part, I am busy finding the distribution that best offers to the users. I myself have been responsible for this type of business when I was a social agency in Oslo, and I have seen how important the offer is, but also how different the offers can be. When it comes to the decision to try first, I've been in contact with the companies involved, and they're very pleased with that decision. How to test it, we'll get back to it. We're going to send out a hearing note on this later. The goal is to have a good offer for the users concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1676	I repeat my question: what dialogue has there been with the organisations of disabled people in this process? What dialogue has the Council of State had with the organisations that represent the people it actually applies? I also hear that the Council of State, and to the extent that other representatives of the majority, also stress that the objective is a good offer to users. But all these organizations that represent the people involved are, of course, opposed and opposed. The Employers' Association for Growth and Recruitment Companies also wishes to continue to be responsible for the financing of permanent work. So then my last question is, what is it the Council of State has understood that not those who are part of this scheme have understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1683	To the question of what dialogue I have had with the trials: we have not had any dialogue yet, simply because the decision that we should have tried, has just been taken. We're going to send out a hearing note before the summer. At that time, everyone who is concerned about this issue will also have the opportunity to speak out at that hearing. Then we're going to get back to what these trials are going to be like. There should be no doubt that the government is concerned about caring for this group's need for activity and work, and then we will see how the experiment should be designed. Then, of course, we will also do so in dialogue with the user groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1688	Then we go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1695	‘The red-green government presented a job strategy with new measures and instruments in the State budget for 2012. The strategy was developed in close cooperation with the social partners and the organisations of the disabled. In the 15–66 age group, only 43 pst. of the disabled in work in the second quarter of 2015. The proportion is falling and more than 30 percentage points lower than the total population. What does the Council of State do to follow up the job strategy, and when should results and evaluation of the instruments be provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1702	The participation of people with disabilities has remained at about the same level over the last 13 to 14 years. Any variation in the referenced study is largely within the margin of error for sampling uncertainty. It is therefore difficult to establish that there has been a downward trend. Low economic activity often proves to be particularly demanding for vulnerable groups. They compete for jobs with an increasing number of unemployed. One of the main objectives of the government is to maximise the use of resources in the labour market. The government's political platform says that we want to better facilitate the provision of disabled people in the labour market. The government has therefore continued and strengthened the efforts of the Job Strategy for people with disabilities. I follow the implementation continuously through reporting from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. The implementation of the job strategy was evaluated in 2013. This is also mentioned in the State budget for 2015. From 1 January 2015, the target group of the job strategy was extended to all beneficiaries of redundancy benefits under 30 years. Several of the instruments supporting the strategy have been strengthened and improved. The Government stresses that the development of labour market policy should be knowledge-based. The Government presented Prop in 2014. 39 L for 2014–2015 for the Stortinget with proposals for the further development of instruments that are also part of the job strategy. In the light of various evaluations, it was found that: proposed to increase the use of wage subsidies. In addition, extended access to temporary employment was granted. At the same time, the organisation guarantee was replaced by a new organisation and follow-up agreement from 1 January 2016. It shall provide greater security and predictability for the jobseeker and employer. The allocation of the labour assistance scheme has been strengthened. The number of users has increased to 202 participants as of January 2016. These are schemes that will improve the chances of getting to work for the job strategy target group. The government intends, as the representative knows for sure, to present a communication on Nav in 2016 – if not for as long as – where the proposals of the expert group that has reviewed the management of labour and welfare will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1715	I'm a little worried about the satisfaction that the Council of State gives in its answer, and the whole way it answers. It is among the disabled who were not working in the second quarter of 2015, about 27 pst. who want to get to work. We know that when people with disabilities get into work, about half the number of people who need social benefits is halved. We know that the entire participation in the profession is the foundation of our welfare society. We know that participation in the labour market is declining as a result of lower participation in the labour market among refugees and immigrants. It's very serious what's happening in Norwegian society. We know that the disabled are among the weakest in working life. Would it not then be natural to increase the system of non-time pay subsidies dramatically to allow these people we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1720	I will reject any suggestion that the government takes this lightly. We're not going to do that at all, and we're not going to do that either. This is a very important work. I also believe there is a cross-political consensus that this work is important. As I mentioned in my main response, this government has taken a number of measures to improve the situation of people with disabilities in the labour market and to reduce employers' recruitment thresholds. As I mentioned in my main post: the job strategy has been strengthened, salary subsidies have increased, it has been opened up to temporarily employ to lower the threshold, and we have increased the allocation of labour assistance in the workplace. The IA Agreement has recently been renegotiated where objective No. 2 is about access to working life for people with disabilities. We have now invited the social partners to an idea on how we can provide more jobs for, among other things. The refugees who are now coming, as the representative Lundteg was in. First of all, it is important now that employers open the doors, and of course we should help to recruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1727	The Council of State rejects the fact that one takes it lightly, but does not want to respond to the need to provide an evaluation of the functioning of what is specifically related to the situation of people with disabilities. That is a lot of fine wording. Since I'm a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee, I'm tired of fine wording. I hope that's a diplomatic expression. I'm tired of fine formulations, and I'm concerned that we'll see how things work in practice. I am very surprised that the Council of State will not cooperate closely with the non-profit organisations, i.e. the organisations of disabled people, in this area. In all contexts, it is said that the organisations of disabled people are a resource, and that is absolutely true, but then the Supreme Authority, the Council of State in this case, has to bring them with it. Will the Council of State soon bring together the organisations of disabled people, identify the situation, and discuss the necessary new instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1734	There were several elements to this question. In terms of cooperation, there is a great deal of cooperation with the organisations of disabled people, also formally. It has to be. For evaluation, I would like to say again that the job strategy was evaluated by SINTEF during 2013. It's also public. The evaluation was about the implementation of the job strategy, and it was also published in 2014. So there are a number of evaluations that are publicly known and that are mentioned in government documents. I fully agree with Mr Lundteigen that the policy should be knowledge-based. The most important thing is that we take action that works. It has to be the most important of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1743	‘After the Workers’ Party’s assessment, VTA is a labour market measure and should therefore not be transferred to municipalities but managed together with other labour market measures. Does the Council agree that VTA is a labour market measure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1750	The ‘Precautionary work’ measure is an important part of the overall labour market policy and is regulated by the Labour Market Action Regulation. In this sense, VTA is a labour market measure. As a general rule, labour market measures aim at bringing participants back to normal working life and out of the social security system. These are temporary measures. Durable work differs in several ways. The target group is people who receive or are expected to receive disability benefit in the near future. Other labour market measures shall be assessed and found to be out-of-date. The action has no time limit. VTA shall contribute to maximum standardisation and integration for the developmentally impaired and other users of the measure. The framework for the action needs to be put in place in order to provide the best possible opportunity for the participants to be offered. Account for users is more important than where the responsibility lies. For me, it's a pragmatic question whether it's a state or municipality that's going to be responsible for VTA. The fact that the State is responsible for other labour market measures is not in itself a decisive argument that the primary responsibility for VTA must necessarily lie in the state part of Nav. It is already the case that municipalities own the action organisers and have a significant partial responsibility for the implementation and funding of the VTA. I believe there are good arguments for a transfer to the municipalities and also arguments that the State should continue to have the primary responsibility. My assessment is that it is too early to conclude on this now. As I mentioned in a previous answer here today, I have asked my department to start planning an experiment where some municipalities are getting more responsibility for VTA, and through the experiment we will gather experiences that can contribute to a good basis for where responsibility should lie in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1765	One of the things that has made me the most happy when I've traveled around this country and visited different businesses is to come to companies with a lot of – or just – people working on permanent organized work. It's a professional pride, it's an obligation to face up to work, it's a sick leave that other business can envy them. An important element of this is that VTA is considered to be a labour market measure. I'm a little startled that the Council of State obviously doesn't understand how important it is for those who are in permanent work, that it is a labour market measure and not a social activity measure. I think that would have been all right if, contrary to what she has said in previous answers, she had been willing to listen to those organisations that represent those who use permanent work. So I ask the Council of State to insist that this is a labour market measure and that it should still be a labour market measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1772	I have also had the pleasure of visiting many of the companies that we are talking about here, as owners. Oslo Municipality is wholly or wholly owned by ten municipal limited-liability companies and a municipal corporation. I had the pleasure of visiting everyone, and I fully agree with Andersen's representative that there are both job-seekers and sick leave figures that we others can envy them. In the trials that we're now putting up to, and that we're going to send out at the hearing, we want work and activity in focus. There are important frameworks for the attempts we want to make. It is also important to see whether these efforts can improve the provision of municipal services for neighbouring services. I mean, as I said in my first answer, the important thing now is to make sure that we get a good deal for the users. Whether there is a state or municipality, I do not believe that is a crucial question. The crucial thing is: what level is it that is capable of providing the best possible services? Now we send out a proposal at the hearing, and then you want regular processes after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1781	In both the current response and in previous responses related to the same topic today, the Council of State has said that the decision on the existence of experimental arrangements has been taken and then it is to be sent to the hearing. With respect to reporting – it is not to give influence to the organisations of the disabled. In fact, if these organisations are to have an influence, it means that one has a conversation, a dialogue, where one has the opportunity to participate and design the proposals to be sent later to the hearing. This is not to take these organisations seriously. If the Council of State is interested in what they think, we know two things: they have strongly opposed the fact that the municipalities should take over part of something that should also be a labour market measure in the future. In addition, municipalities have strongly opposed this because they see that this should compete with other municipal allocation posts. Then my last question is: When it is only to be heard and not involved, will the Council of State care about unambiguous signals coming in, before concluding that such testing schemes should be carried out – and discard this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1790	I have to say I am a little surprised at the mistrust of the local authorities' ability to discharge this responsibility. I'm also a little surprised by the fear of trying out models of how to do this in a better way. I am absolutely convinced that the municipalities will be able to do this, and I am also sure that the offer will be good. Now what we're saying is that we want to try it out in some municipalities first, that's what we want to do. The content of the experiment we have to get back to, we haven't gotten there in the process. The first thing we did was say we should have an experiment, and then we have to get back to how the hearing note should be designed. Of course, I am concerned that there should be good dialogue with user organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1801	This question, from Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister of Culture, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1804	‘Children and young people with disabilities participate to a lesser extent than other children in organised recreational and sporting activities, and the older they get, the less they participate. How does the government contribute to the participation and inclusion of disabled children and young people in sports, cultural and recreational arenas?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1811	Voluntary organisations in the fields of culture, sport and art are responsible for the main leisure activities of children and young people. Participation in volunteering opens up experiences, mastery, friendship and belonging. Children and young people with disabilities participate less in social activities than their peers. The government is concerned that all children and young people have good opportunities for participation, experiences and activities in volunteering and sport. The overall goal of sport policy is sport and physical activity for all. The public should contribute to the framework conditions under which sport can succeed in providing people with disabilities with a good range of activities. It is a goal for Norwegian sport to provide disabled and disabled people with an equivalent level of activity and opportunities to develop sport at all levels. There is still a lot of work to be done before this goal is achieved. Therefore, in the 2015 grant to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, the government reinforced the contribution of 20 million to sport for disabled persons. kr. For 2016, the investment was increased by another 4 million. kr. We also want to facilitate sport for people with disabilities through construction policy. The provisions of the Ministry of Culture on grants to facilities for sport and physical activity include universal design requirements. A sports facility shall be capable of being used by all, including practitioners, audiences, trainers and persons in other roles, such as: speakers or ground personnel. All shall have access to all activity areas, club rooms, meeting rooms and public and service areas. Many libraries and museums have also worked with universal design for many years. The Norwegian Church has made clear the Church's responsibility for facilitating the equivalent participation of children and young people in religious training regardless of their ability to function. All children and young people, regardless of their ability to function and the need for assistance, have an obvious right to participate in the Church's religious training. Voluntary activity is important for children and young people. The funds from masterless inheritance belong to non-governmental organisations working for children and young people, and the government wants to give priority to work for children and young people with disabilities under this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1828	I thank you for your answer. It is tempting to ask the Council of State follow-up questions about the equipment system — which is a good system — that operates on organised equipment for children and young people in the field of sport. Is the government and the government aware of how the scheme works and whether the money is spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1835	When it comes to issues about the impact of the different schemes, I don't have detailed knowledge about it. So I think it would be better to ask a written question to the Minister of Culture for a more precise explanation of the effect of the grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1840	That's good, and I want to come back to that. However, barriers to participation may also include lack of physical availability, lack of financial or human resources, transport or perhaps, as in the last example of equipment arrangements, a possible lack of information on the arrangements in place. Barriers can also be social, such as underestimation of mastery and competence and prejudices from the environment, and approx. half of Norwegian municipalities do not currently have an accompanying scheme, which is just about to promote activities for children and young people. What will the government do to motivate several municipalities to have accompanying arrangements or other types of schemes promoting activity for disabled children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1849	There is no doubt that there are many barriers to participation in society today, both economic and social, as well as to organisation. I am pleased that the representative is withdrawing the municipalities, because there is no doubt that the municipalities have a particularly large responsibility to organise, not only for physical activity in sport, but also through activity in the school yard and in cultural and leisure life at all. The Government has an annual political round table with the umbrella organisations of disabled people’s organisations. This year, it will be about work, but it is natural that the dialogue with KS should focus on how municipalities can better facilitate the participation of children and young people in activities at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1863	This question, which is initially from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be raised by the representative of Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1866	‘The size has adopted a new soil protection strategy which aims at the degradation of smaller food soils. How is the new soil protection target being followed up by the government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1873	The government presented its soil protection strategy in June 2015 and is implementing it. We do that in line with the Storting's decision. The Storting will deal with this soil protection strategy and take call decisions in December 2015, i.e. about four months ago. An overall increase adopted a target that the annual re-disposal of cultivated land should be below 4000 targets by 2020 and that this target should be achieved gradually. The size has asked for reporting on this in the context of the revised national budget. My answer must therefore be considered preliminary and not exhaustive. Emptying replies will be submitted to the Stortinget in line with its own decisions. I would also like to remind you that in the period of red-green government, i.e. from 2004 to 2013, an average of 7,600 targets were red-green annually, i.e. almost twice the new target. The redistribution of cultivated land has shown a falling trend over the last few years, and in 2014 was 5,710 jobs, i.e. below the target that the previous government had seen, of 6,000 jobs. The final result for 2015 will come in June, but preliminary figures suggest that we will also be below the average in 2015 from the time when the Senterpartiet put in government. I'm satisfied with that. After the Stortinget decided on the new goal, I sent letters to all the municipalities, county councils and county councillors on the goal and pointed out the role they have in planning. I think that such a letter is a strong signal to the municipalities and county councils that soil protection is an important concern to ensure, and I have confidence and expectations that they will follow it. I have already given a mandate to the Members through the 2016 letter of assignment to implement a scouring scheme for local politicians, and I will meet KS in the future to follow up on how we can work together to achieve the goals in question. One of the most important measures to structurally strengthen the position of soil protection concerns the issue of municipal structure. Speeding up changes in the municipal structure will help to lay the foundations for achieving the soil protection objectives. One example of this is the municipalities of Hå, Klepp and Time, which have in concrete terms seen new expectations of securing soil protection if one actually joins up to one collective municipality. If the Centre Party is also involved in the field of soil protection in practice, one of the main contributions is in fact to the reform of the municipal structure. It will be a very positive contribution from the Center Party to contribute to enhanced soil protection. Instead of putting a pair of heads in the wheels of the process that is currently going on, the answer might have been that one actually contributed. It would have been far more constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1888	The Council of State was within several elements here. I'm going to go to one, that the Stortinget indicated that you had to follow up with the municipalities and the administration in terms of Stortingen's soil protection goal, that is, that the Stortinget asked the Council of State to do so. The letter to which the Council of State itself referred was a little concrete. Will the Council of State, together with other relevant government councils, send a more binding circular – together with the Minister of Municipal Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1895	When I clearly communicate in the letter that I have confidence that the municipalities will follow up, it is with a significant expectation for the local government sector. I think it is more than sufficient that I have sent that letter, and I believe that the municipalities with it have received a clear order to ensure the care that Stortinget has asked for. So I think that if we're going to go into the soil protection discussion a little bit wider, we also have to look at one of the other things that Stortinget said something about, that's the relationship to land cultivation. In 2014, we allowed the cultivation of three times as much land as we have allowed to be built down. It shows that there is an enormous eagerness to cultivate land, because there are many farmers who, under this government, believe that there is a basis for agricultural production for many years to come and at the rate of new cultivation. We also have to include that in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1902	Governments themselves commented on the number of decas redisposed food soils in 2015. The 2015 figure is compared with the average of total redistribution under the previous government. I guess the Council of State knows there's a long-term trend, and the figures show that the positive trend has turned negative during this government. Governments explain that the increase in the degradation of food soil is a consequence of the decision on a new fighter base. Where has the Council of State taken the idea that this type of project should be kept out of the calculation? Does he know that this kind of project has to be handled within the Stortingen soil protection target?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1909	The premise for the question is wrong. When we have concrete figures from the end of 2014 that show that the decline is falling under this government, but only predestination figures for 2015, there is no basis for saying that it is now moving in the wrong direction. One must wait for the final numbers to say something about it. I've said that part of the explanation is that we've made a decision in Stortinget, and that's the other important part of the discussion. The size adopted many expansion projects, whether they relate to fighter aircraft base, to the ground or to the development of logistics in and around the big cities, for example. The majority actually makes concrete decisions about it. Some of the decisions result in land degradation, and I say that this is part of the explanation, without affecting the goal that the Storting has seen. But in the public debate, there must be room to actually point to some of the implications of the Storting decision in general, even when they are eager to challenge the other decisions that Stortinget has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1914	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-04-06.ana.ud272e1927	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
