ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e62	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Sonja Mandt from 24 October onwards and until further notice from the representatives of Gunvor Eldegard and Kenneth Svendsen on leave on 25 and 26 October both to take part in the autumn session of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus Province: Are Health For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e108	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e126	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e135	First of all, I would like to thank the Energy and Environment Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. There are some different suggestions in the matter, which I think the parties themselves will explain, but I would say that for the most part there is quite a consensus on the open-air message throughout. I would also like to thank the various organisations for their good input, both at the hearings and at the seminar we held in August. It's never easy to make everyone good, but there's been a lot of feedback, which has been pretty much positive, after the committee's release. The main objective of the government’s outdoor communication is for a large proportion of the population to operate regularly in open-air activities. In particular, this is important from a public health perspective. Activities create environmental change and provide natural experiences. Taking into account Vista Analysis’s report, ‘Societal economic impacts of outdoor life’, the report represents large societal values in Norway. Outdoors have a documented health impact and are important for the quality of life of those who regularly pursue outdoor activities. Therefore, the government wants to strengthen the outdoors and create more activity. According to the Vista Analysis report, increased physical activity in the population can bring socio-economic gains of 80 billion. kr annually. We want to simplify the law on outdoor life and make it easier to deal with the rules on outlanding. Outdoor life in the community and targeting children and young people has become a priority, and there will be better provision for more outdoor life in national parks – also to safeguard travel and protection. It is important that it is the purpose of open-air life that must be the central one and not the way it is carried out. Outdoors are changing, and new activities take up nature in different areas. This is good, not least from a public health perspective, where outdoor life strengthens the individual's health and well-being and saves society from large sums of money. The universal right to movement, residence and harvesting is and will be incredibly important. All-man rights are part of our cultural heritage, and it cannot be stressed enough how important the municipality's role is in the work on spatial planning, land mapping and planning, not least in the monitoring of accessibility to the beach area and of various activities. The government, with the support of the Left, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, sees the need to regulate land-consuming outdoor activities in its own path or loop network for activities such as skiing, roller-skiing, terrain bike, electric bicycle, jogging, walking, wheelchairs, riding or hounding. And again, this work needs to be planned, and the role of the municipality, together with owners and user organisations, becomes incredibly important. The government also provides for a review of the protection regulations for cycling on paths and roads in national parks and in landscape protected areas. It is also very positive that the work on marine pollution is strengthened, and that the archipelago service is prioritised in collaboration with municipalities and counties. It is also good that we in the communication order that municipalities should facilitate escape areas for dogs according to the Danish model. The dog is also part of the outdoor life in Norway and creates a lot of activity. Finally, I would like once again to thank colleagues and organisations for their cooperation on a very important matter, and I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e156	Let me start by saying that I think the message gives a good description of why outdoor life is important in Norway, and what it is threatened by. However, the Workers' Party believes that the communication that was submitted was too poor in terms of the instruments involved. We are then pleased that the Stortinget has today managed to make some suggestions to tighten up the message. In the Workers' Party, we should have liked to see that we had come even further, and there are a number of proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting today, for which we should have liked to have a majority. In 2015 we had the year of outdoor life, a year when there was a lot of activity all over the country. Thousands of people had experiences for their lives. Many learned to be happy in outdoor life. It was learned that you didn't have to be a top sportsman to enjoy the outdoors – no, it could be for any of us. When it was proposed last year to cut quite a lot of the activity support for outdoor life, it was said that every year could not be a year of outdoor life. But the point was not to increase the effort one year, the point was that it would bring lasting change. The year of open-air life was to be a kick-start for the year of open-air life every year. Outdoor policy is about making it as simple as possible for people. We have a very good starting point, because when people are asked what they would want them to do more of, the answer is not that they would wish they were more in the gym, but that they would wish they could be a little more active. Outdoor life is the best way to be more active. People would like them to ski a little more, rode something more and went for a walk, instead of lying on the sofa. If we get to that, it might be the most important thing we can do for public health in our country. Every year the state spends less than 60 000 kroner on repairing the health of each of us. Think what we could save if we had spent some of that money to avoid people getting sick! That's an arithmetic most people would agree with, but it's harder to take the consequences of. The Labour Party believes that the two most important things we need to do in order to bet on outdoor life are to have increased volunteering and to increase efforts for children and young people. Voluntary activities play a major role in Norway. The freedom shall be exactly that; it shall be voluntary. Voluntaryness also costs some money, but it is the cheapest investment – a few dollars – that produces many results. That is why we need to step up efforts in the voluntary sector. So the second effort is what we do for children and young people. If we teach children and young people to be happy in nature, we have given them a gift for life. Then we need more physical activity in school. The working party and the left-hand side are often ridiculed by the right-hand side, where you talk about gyms not making people smarter. But it's not about gym, it's about physical activity. It is not primarily to increase knowledge – it may be the most important measure to improve the health of the population in Norway. The President of the Court of First Instance was in the Court of First Instance. It is perhaps one of the most Norwegian things we can imagine, but that is something we must never take for granted – the right of all people must be defended all the time. In a society where we're getting richer, there are several of us who can afford to buy large plots. This means that nature – literally – is at risk of being privatised. The areas where we see that nature is threatened are in the coastal zone. Many places along the coast are built fences and fences that prevent us from using our beautiful coastal nature. The beach zone must be secured and illegal closures removed. It is the municipalities that are the most important in terms of taking care of nature and facilitating outdoor life. Local authorities need to have greater competence to conserve nature. Then we need more mapping, to know what to do. If we know what we think is most valuable, we also know what is not so valuable and that can be released for other good purposes. Let me conclude by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. Then I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party – together with other parties – is behind. At the same time, I would like to report that the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the motion for a resolution for Decisions III and IV, when our primary position falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e177	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e182	Outdoor life is an important part of our cultural heritage and an activity that most of us are engaged in in some form or another. It is not without reason that we Norwegians are known for backpacks and food parcels. We have a unique nature and a wonderful tradition that nature is open to everyone. The right of universal access guarantees the right to move, residency and the harvesting of nature. At the same time, it requires that we take care of nature in a sustainable way, and not least respect and cooperate well with the landowners. Although outdoor life is strong in Norway, there is also an activity that notes that the fight for our time and attention has become tougher. We have a challenge to get children and young people to participate more actively in outdoors, and we see that the minority population is strongly under-represented. Participation in outdoor life is under pressure from the same forces that increase public health concerns; stagnation in school, working life and leisure as a result of new technologies is a concern. The government is therefore clearly aware that nature and outdoor life are becoming increasingly important in public health work. Walking in the community is probably the closest one coming a low threshold offer for most of us. The threshold can be reduced with increased accessibility and the use of nature should be free of charge. Natural experiences in the context of physical activity provide both better mental and physical health and can help to save society from excessive costs if it helps to keep people healthy longer. One of the most important grips the government makes in this message is to make nature more accessible to everyone. Through the provisions of the ‘to reflect’ open-air law on what is allowed to travel in the open-air area, we remove any doubt that more modern outdoor activities, such as cycling and chiting, are now a natural part of the open-air life. Now the starting point shall be that all movement shall be permitted, unless otherwise specifically defined. It gives a clear and clear signal that everyone is welcome into nature. Simplification of the law on outdoor life and easier to deal with the rules on outdoor movement also help lower the thresholds in order for more people to participate. In addition, we need to recognise that new forms of outdoor life are emerging, for which it needs to be opened up – in order to help new groups get out and use nature and the environment. We live our lives locally, and municipalities have a great responsibility to take care of outdoor life in their spatial planning. It presupposes that all planning and organisation of routes for outdoor activities take place in consultation with the landowners – this in order to avoid and reduce conflicts and to better exploit the land for the benefit of everyone. In particular, around cities and agglomerations, it is important to identify and secure areas for outdoor purposes, as the pressure is particularly strong on the areas and there are several users of the areas. The use of nature must always be cautious. Unfortunately, we see more acidification of nature and, in particular, of our coastline. There's a lot of popular mobilization against marine litter in connection with Hold Norway Clean its beach clearance operations and a good cooperation between volunteers, municipalities and outdoors councils, partly through the archipelago service. The archipelago service was established as a local initiative in the interior of Oslofjord and has been a very successful contribution to the work of keeping the coast clean and attractive to all who enjoy boating and outdoor life around the fjord. Right is satisfied that the majority emphasises that any extension of the archipelago service should be based on local initiative and participation and a committed local co-financing. Finally, I want to commend the great voluntary work of the many organisations that contribute to the recruitment and stimulation of outdoor life. The many hours spent making paths, loops and other arrangements for several of us to use nature actively, it's just taking off our hats for. Voluntary activities are invaluable for individuals, the community and society. The competence and provision of organisations is an important resource for the population. In the Communication, the Government is clear that it wishes to continue and further develop the role of voluntary organisations in the field of outdoor activities and with a particular emphasis on low-threshold activities. This message provides a good basis for us to continue and further develop our traditions and values. In an increasingly hectic and busy everyday life, the experiences and interactions with nature will give us greater significance. We have to make sure that that opportunity is provided for everyone, regardless of whether you live in the village or the city, and that is the very foundation of the message we are going to discuss here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e199	It is positive that we agree so politically with the processing of the notification. In fact, there are some dividing lines, but the Storting is unisonably agreed on the importance and value of being a country with a rich tradition and great opportunities to practice outdoors. The right of universal access is strong in the nation's consciousness and gives all opportunities for travel in the country. I want to focus my article on the archipelago. Marine nesting has evolved into an enormous environmental problem. It is a global problem, but also a local problem. We must work with unimpaired strength on all fronts. In our widely used archipelago areas, it is of great importance that measures be taken to prevent, among other things. landfill, both by users and in the form of land-based garbage. The archipelago service, which was initially established in the area around Oslo, and subsequently expanded to include Hordaland, plays an important role. I am very pleased that there was a majority in the committee to extend the scheme. In my home country, More and Romesdal, this work has already come a long way. The county imagines the same operating model as in the south and west, where the open-air councils operate the service. The coast of Møre and Romesdal do not have as many State-secured open-air areas as the Oslofdörden, but we are one of the largest states in the country in terms of leisure boats. Operation and care of open air areas are equally important for people here. Bridges, toilets, fireyards and renovations are important for the area to be attractive and accessible. All experience shows that organisation increases use. Long-distance shipping is more extensive here than along the Oslo Bank and on the South. The Gulf Stream reaches the Norwegian coast at the border between Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. There it blends with the coastal stream southwards and continues northwards along the coast, all the way into the Barents Sea. By itself, the two streams carry huge amounts of garbage from all over the world, and in addition, waste from fishing and salmon farming comes along our own coast. Much of this remains in bays and bays and on islands and caves along the whole coast. With the knowledge we have, it would be completely irresponsible not to put action on many fronts. The archipelago service will be an important contributor. The archipelago service is a split layer between state, municipalities, counties and, where appropriate, other contributors. All good forces must play on teams. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unreasonable that the state contributes money to such a service in only parts of the country. Marine pollution is a national, local and global problem, and outdoor and boating facilities are equally important for people along the coast. Another important point is that there is a need to extend the archipelago service to include cleaning in the beach zone where it is not possible to get to from land. We are also pleased that the Committee has strengthened the message on the action page, and have therefore asked the government to strengthen the overall outdoor work of a separate action plan. Outdoor activities play an important role in public health work, perhaps more for broader groups than sport. We who are used to using nature and enjoying the benefits of open-air life without any organization must realize that we are all different. For more people to enjoy and benefit from the joys of outdoor life, it also needs a solid portion to facilitate. It is important that we use our areas, including national parks and protected areas, but the movement in nature must be at nature's premise. The importance of plant and animal life must come first. Fundamental respect for interaction must take precedence. I'm promoting those proposals that the Christian People's Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e218	The representative of Andersen Eide has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e223	There is every reason to rejoice that such a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is united on important issues related to outdoor life. There is also reason to rejoice that we are now getting the chance to treat outdoor life in its full width. But as one so often says, a big message in itself is not enough. It's often easy to have a double communication, where one says that one will bet on the open air in a big-time message, and then ignore the same promises when one presents the state budget. The government has also done so in this matter. When the state budget goes up to treatment in the Storting later this fall, I hope that the will to invest in outdoor life, which we will all probably express here today, will also be reflected in the concrete budget lines. Because we are all well aware of the great public health benefits that open-air life brings, both for individuals and for society as a whole. This is not only about the ambitious peak tours in mountain homes and national parks, but equally important are the short and slightly more prosaic trips in the countryside and through cultural landscapes where a boron – the trip you can manage to walk once a week, perhaps several times a week. A trip out into nature can solve a lot of problems, and if we can build an open-air life into everyday life, both individuals and society can make a lot of money out of it. That's why we don't just need a good big message. We need a great deal of outdoor activity in all its breadth, and most of all in the voluntary sector and in the local offer in the community. Only by betting here can we get people up off the couch, or the bed, and through the dreaded doorstep mile and out into the open air. And it's not just about public efforts, but it's about the individual, the private responsibility and the private initiative. One may, as you know, lead a horse to water, but one cannot force it to drink. Children and youth who are a lot out there, and as friends of nature and weather, get valuable ballast for the rest of their lives. It is worth remembering it at a time when the informal play outdoors where one lives is on the waving front. Therefore, it is also important that this group be given special priority in the field of outdoors. The centre party is involved in extensive comments for the benefit of open-air living in the setting. Nevertheless, I would like to problem some aspects of the debate on outdoor life. First of all: Norwegian society is characterised in our days by the fact that almost everything is to be institutionalised, regulated and too often red tape. One can almost get the impression that it is not possible to go on a trip if the forest has not been protected, all the streams and ants have been struck, all the intersections have been signposted and the whole path network has been published. When a reader receives the message, the impression is that there is a lack of open-air areas that is the cause of the inactivity found in parts of the population. That's not the way it's supposed to be. We have enough space -- there are other challenges that are more important. The communication is also strongly influenced by the challenges of outdoor life in the press areas, and many measures are targeted at them, and that is good. But I still think there is reason to warn against implementing comprehensive national measures that are really only appropriate or necessary in the big cities. The centre party is holding up on all-man rights, but we will not extend it uncritically either. Organised commercial activities on another's behalf are not part of all-man rights, and it is not entirely unproblematic to extend all-man rights uncritically in view of new forms of movement. Let me also end by mentioning some individual issues that clarify the positions of the Centre Party at some key points: The Government proposes ‘to reflect’ the provisions of the Outdoors Act on what is allowed to travel in the outland. That grip can lead to problems. The Central Party believes, inter alia, that: riding and cycling shall, as a general rule, take place on established paths and tracks. Riding centres, bicycle clubs and others shall have to agree with the landowner on the arrival of new fleas. In addition, plantations are defined as fields and it is completely wrong to open up free circulation for cycling or riding there. Here, however, the majority have recovered a little during the committee procedure, and that is good. The centre party is in favour of extending the regime of the archipelago service along the entire Norwegian coast, not least in order to strengthen the work against marine pollution. I would also like to mention that it is important for us to have a more even distribution of the funds that go to the archipelago service. It requires a better distribution between parts of the country than today and increased appropriations in the future budget. I hummed a little over the Right and the Progress Party remarks that the archipelago service is ‘most suitable for densely populated areas’ and therefore should not be extended north of Bergen. I must be allowed to tell you that there are some densely populated areas also north of Bergen that can be interesting! So I would also like to mention that the Center Party is not behind using INNON as a management tool, nor related to outdoor life. With that, I would also like to inform you that the Central Party subsidizes IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e255	First, I would also like to thank you for what I think is a good outdoor message, which has also received some clarifications in committee work that reinforce it as a message. As many have already pointed out, outdoor life is extremely important in Norway. It's important for the individual's own experience, it's important as a purpose to preserve nature and also to spread the natural pleasure that makes one have an interest in caring for Norwegian nature, and of course it has a huge public health significance. Is that what we really save resources on, is to facilitate more outdoor life and build up during more outdoor life, and it is important that we have a focus on the recruitment that is necessary. The Communication places a lot of emphasis on the need in and around the big cities to facilitate outdoor life there as well, as the previous speaker mentioned. I totally agree with that. Of course, this applies to the surrounding urban areas and fields, but it also applies to how we plan cities. There's a lot that can be done with quite simple grips and by seeing contexts. When we look at how we're going to have climate adaptation in cities, it's important to see this with flood management and open streams and rivers in connection with urban areas and opportunities and contexts. The rights of all people, to ensure that the roads are not closed in cities, are a problem that has to be taken seriously – because it happens. These small and these simple roads must be maintained, even in the cities. Perhaps the most important decision we will take as an addition is that of the Committee’s recommendation, namely that we have ‘an action plan to strengthen the overall work on outdoor life and the role of the public health community’. It's about resources, it's about recognising the very central function of the outdoor organisations in strengthening the outdoors, and it's also about getting more systematic work on public health, about having a knowledge-based, systematic effort to trigger the potential that we all know is there in terms of public health. In the message ‘mirror’, we – as several people have been in it – turn the general access to non-motorised outland traffic. It's for the left. It also opens the way for cycling into the protection areas. So are we. However, there is a special responsibility attached to the protection regulations, and also a special responsibility in relation to the visit strategies to be developed for national parks – that restrictions are also imposed where necessary, where cycling will go beyond the protection objectives of the protected areas. So the importance of good governance will be greater when you make this ‘speech turnaround’. II of the Committee's recommendation is also very central to the Left, namely that we must strengthen our efforts to organise in the protected areas, i.e. the need to have more care, but also to facilitate the handling of the people who are going to take advantage of these areas in their open-air lives. It must also be followed up in budgets, but also with good plans. Several people have been involved in problems around marine littering. Fortunately, in the last few years – with the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties – we have gained a strengthening by having our own post on the state budget against marine pollution. Here we reinforce this both by considering further measures – this is a work that needs to be developed over time – and also by being positive about extending the archipelago service. And from the left, we believe that it is a local initiative, and of course, the state should be involved in the local initiative – whether it is in More and Romesdal or it is elsewhere north of Hordaland. This is about getting into a good interaction and getting into a good relationship. It would be good if a majority in Stortinget too would reinforce the message by stating that we need a planning guideline for parts of the mountain areas, as assessed in the Communication. We really need that. Where there's a lot of pressure from cabin construction, where there's a lot of pressure from activity, we need to have these planning guidelines. That doesn't mean you have to have them everywhere, but we have to have them where it's necessary. It would have been an advantage if we could have a majority for that, not only in the committee, but also in the big room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e274	Have you ever taken the train one stop too far inward into Nordmarka and the last mile on your way home know how you feel with the cramp in your upper arms? Have you ever bathed in a fresh, Norwegian summer sea by the Homlungen guy? Have you ever walked up on a mountain top and known the wild train staring at you or on the way home been stopped by a sheep farmer on the sinking that affords you a little snaps, so that you come too late home and it has become dark and almost dangerous before you get to the cabin again? Well – then you have known about nature’s blessing and the joys of outdoors. A prerequisite for the joy of outdoor life is that we actually have a nature out there. That is why the work for a good and living outdoor life is inextricably linked to taking care of nature, as we discussed here in our discussion of the nature diversity message – because nature is threatened by both human intervention, a number of decisions and climate change that are opposed to us. I think it is good, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this big message. At the same time, I would say that I stunned a little bit over his enormous commitment to socio-economic profitability as the main reason for outdoor life. The reason why we support outdoor life from Stortinget – at least from SV – and the reason why we believe it is important to bet on outdoor life and to facilitate it is that it is good for people and that outdoor life is good. The things that are good for people are basically also good social economy, especially if you move a little bit while you're doing well. That is why we support outdoor life, and we believe that the treatment of the outdoor news that has been in Stortinget is good. I want to thank the government for submitting the outdoor news, it turns out there is a broad consensus on the big lines. But then it's like with all the other policies, that it's when you're not just talking nice things, but when you're doing nice things, that the priorities and how you give priority come out. That's why it's kind of up like a lion and down like a trap – as Marit Arnstad also mentioned, and as several others, among others. Åsmund Aukrust, was inside. When it comes to the problem, you put the big lines in big messages, while it's in the budgets you'll see if you're serious. It is not that the budget now presented reflects what the Storting agrees on. In the proposal for Decision I, we ask the government to ‘present an action plan aimed at strengthening the overall activity of outdoor life’. The estimate of strengthening the outdoor work contained in the communication is impossible to re-examine in the budget submitted. We'll see if it can come later, or if the Storting can do what the Storting often does, namely to make sure that the government is ‘covering’ and to contribute to increased outdoor spending during the landfilling process. I want to comment on one thing, I want SV to end up with what is in the setting on page 14, second column, where it is about dog teams. It says: ‘The majority have noticed that dog owners are active users of nature and land.» We would like to join in and support the content of the comments from there down to where it says "Ferdsel". I believe it is important to support the possibility for dog owners of active outdoors. A few of the priorities that exist, and where we disagree, it's important to consider. On the SV side, I think we should go beyond what the majority believe, in the work to support under Hold Norway clean and the archipelago service. I think it's important to get rid of the marine litter. Two of the things we should consider is to make sure that the municipality has the opportunity to fine and to finance cleaning through the renovation fee. I believe it is important to have our Constitutional proposal on the rights of all people, and I think it would be good if we could extend the system of free fishing for young people up to the age of 18. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e297	Outdoor life is a fundamental asset of society in Norway, perhaps larger in Norway than in many other countries, and there is reason enough to give priority to outdoor life in all its facets in the future. It is also very important to establish immediately that the prerequisite for outdoor life is nature – without nature, no outdoor life; without taking care of nature, no outdoor life. So when the representative Arnstad is worried that you don't think you can go on a trip without protecting nature, I disagree with Arnstad's intention and agree with what Arnstad says. We can't go for a walk if we don't take care of nature. During my lifetime, approx. two thirds of the wilderness areas that were in Norway when I was born have disappeared. Recently, NRK showed how non-interventional natural areas of the size of the Municipality of Oslo disappear every year. If it continues, there is no non-interventional nature in Norway when my grandchildren get to put their legs under their feet properly. The motorised movement is increasing – not least thanks to the enthusiastic help of this boom – more forest roads are being built, so Norway, as former representatives have pointed out today, has failed quite badly to protect the coastal zone, which is an extremely valuable part of Norwegian nature. That is why it is of course very good that there is a big message that signals a strong commitment to outdoor life, because the organized outdoor life at the same time has the effect that very many people become aware of the enormous value that is in Norwegian nature, and of the enormous joys you get by using it – in small, right behind the corner of the house, or in large, very far away. Of course, when a unanimous increase will have an action plan aimed at strengthening the overall outdoor work and the role of outdoor life in public health work, it is a very good thing. And as others have pointed out, the Storting must do a job of making sure that it is followed up better in the budget than what has been done so far. We also think it is nice to note that a unanimous growth now confirms that motorised driving is not – still not – covered by the open-air concept. As a result, it has also been established that last year’s decision to open up snowmobile fun in Norwegian nature has nothing to do with outdoor activities and should be addressed accordingly. Then we know – and it is also thoroughly documented, both in the big message and in the setting – that outdoor life brings great benefits to people's health and to the quality of life in Norway. People who work outdoors have more hours at work, are more often in work when they are old, they get less sick, they retire later, they are happier and more satisfied, and they get better life prospects in the long term. All this is very good, all these are very good reasons for increasing systematic outdoor investment. At the same time, we should remember what Nils Faarlund pointed out many years ago. We should not first of all regard the nature in which we operate outdoors, as a reciprocating machine, a place where we go to gather forces to go back to work in order to destroy more nature. The relationship between outdoor life and nature protection is inseparable and needs to be emphasised extra thoroughly in a day like this, when we are talking about taking care of the outdoors as a people's activity. One of the suggestions we had hoped to have a majority, because we think it makes a lot of sense, is to increase the number of camp school stays in primary school from one today to two, so that all Norwegian children can experience Norwegian nature both in the interior and on the coast. Just giving children an introduction to nature is crucial for their later use. But it is positive that the Storting decides to work for an extension of the archipelago service and boasts of the DNT cab system. And then it would have been good if the proposal to suspend access to pleasure driving in the outfield was already adopted this time. It won't, but we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e318	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e323	I'm happy to bring up the proposal we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e328	The representative Hansson then addressed the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e333	Surveys often focus on societal problems or complex challenges. This is not the starting point for the outdoor notification. Outdoor life is simply a noble Norwegian success story. In 2014, 83 pst went. by us in the woods, and we went on average 59 trips. It's the World Statistical Day today, so I feel an obligation to use some statistics. Outdoor life is an important source of quality of life and health for all and a living and central part of Norwegian cultural heritage and national identity. The government wants the outdoors to be this for even more people. Outdoor life must have a low threshold, and therefore we want to give priority to outdoor life near where people live. Attractive green areas in the local environment are too many a prerequisite for outdoor life, not least in everyday life. Therefore, the organisation of outdoor activities in the community is a red thread in the message. Among the many positive results of outdoor life is that it also mobilises voluntary action. Organisations are very important for the public’s participation in outdoor activities. This applies in particular to the organisations in the field of leisure, but also to organisations working with, for example: older people, immigrants and disabled people. For the government, good cooperation with organisations and good framework conditions are important. Cooperation is good today, and the government will continue and further develop this cooperation. Children and young people are the most important public response target groups in this area. Children taken into the wild become active in outdoor life as adults. But the most important thing is that they get well-being, that they get strength and that they get mastery feeling today. The government wants children and young people to be given priority in the field of outdoor activities. The message therefore underlines that outdoor life and the use of nature as the learning arena in schools and kindergartens are very important for recruiting children and young people for outdoor life and for giving them good experiences in nature. The Government aims to amend the Outdoor Act in order to open up new forms of outdoor life. Today, the Outdoors Act mentions the types of activities that are allowed to be carried out in the field. The list mentions, for example: use of claws and jaws. It is not a representative list of the diversity of open-air activities carried out today. It is a static form of legislation that does not take into account the development of outdoor life. So we want to reverse this principle, so that any movement that is not motorized is allowed. Instead, rules are created that limit this where necessary, for example. in the case of natural values. In order to better facilitate new forms of outdoor life, the government will also change the legislation of national parks, where cycling is currently only allowed in selected routes. Today's system provides too strict a regulation, according to the government's vision. Research may suggest that terrain cycling does not necessarily result in more wear than foot tourism. The Government will therefore initially be allowed to cycle on roads and paths in national parks and in protected areas. Very many prefer open-air life by the sea. At the same time, these areas are in many places highly developed. We will therefore continue to work to improve access to the beach zone and, among other things, develop a guide on overall planning in the sea areas. In addition, priority shall be given to areas in the coastal zone for State security. The government will also review the bans on housing in the State-secured open-air areas and remove the bans that are no longer required. In 2011, there was a government planning guideline for differentiated management of the beach zone, where areas with large expansion pressures and unavailability of beach area have the most stringent leadership. We are now evaluating the guidelines with a view to getting even better coastal zone management. Outdoor life in the mountains is popular, and many want to have their own cabin in the mountains. It is a good expression of the will for outdoor life, but it also means that larger and larger parts of the mountain are being expanded with huts, especially in the mountain areas that are close to the larger cities. Therefore, it is important to better safeguard the interests of outdoor life here. The government will improve guidance on overall planning in mountain areas, and we consider developing a government planning guideline for parts of the mountain areas. Such a guideline will be able to regulate where and how it is to be built in mountain areas with special expansion pressures. Municipalities are also encouraged to draw up regional plans to ensure the preservation of larger open-air areas in mountain areas. The new Single European Sky Communication provides the basis for an up-to-date and forward-looking open-air policy. In this way, in the future, outdoor life will continue to be an important source of health and quality of life for the entire population and a central and living part of our culture. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and for the broad support for the main lines of the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e370	I think it is good that the Council of State in its contribution makes it clear that a better access to the beach zone should now be provided. My question is about just activity on the coast. We see that in many of our coastal areas, motorised traffic has now become increasingly a conflict – major recreational boats, watercraft – with what is not motorised, such as bathing, rowing, paddling, etc. Then is my question to the Council of State: What steps does he take to reduce the conflicts between those who use the engine and those who do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e375	I see it as important that, in a country that is diverse and extensive, as Norway is, we provide good opportunities for municipalities and local authorities to facilitate solutions where different interests may develop. One of the sources of significant discussion to which the representative is probably referring here is personal watercraft. We have signaled the repeal of the watercraft code. We believe that personal watercraft should in principle be regulated in the same way as other recreational craft. We believe that today's legislation is difficult to control. That is why we think it is better that municipalities themselves regulate the use of recreational craft in their waters, where they also look to the outdoor interests of the sea. We are now working on a consultation proposal and will also address the concerns of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e380	This was a slightly eye-catching answer, because the question was what would lead to less conflict. And then the only answer the council has to give is that you want to open up to more watercraft. There may be arguments for that, but some less conflict will hardly be. I know that this is something the government has proposed. They have not only proposed it, they have even been big-time representatives who have participated in illegal actions along Oslofjord. It might have been interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about it. But what I really want to ask the Council of States is whether he really believes this will lead to a smaller conflict between motorised travel and non-motorised travel on our coast, and what he sees as a remedy for the potential increase in activity we will now see, and how to secure the life of the open air on the coast, i.e. bathing, paddling, rowing and other things that the committee very well describes – that motorised travel is not a form of outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e387	We have a long coast. It's very different use of the coast. The Oslo Earth is something different than the North West, to use one example. What we know is that today’s legislation – and it also shows an evaluation carried out by Vista Analysis – has several unfortunate aspects, including: related to safety. We also know that today's legislation is difficult to control, and that it is little known. It's not anti-conflict. What we believe is that by abolishing the central code, the municipalities themselves will be able to regulate the use and take into account the considerations that it is important to take, locally. A very important consideration locally — every local politician will know — is to help mitigate conflicts in the coastal zone. I have great faith that that assessment is better suited to the local politicians to do for each place than what they are at state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e392	I need the Council of State to go deep on a slightly different theme. It is true that a reflector reverses the rules of the law on the movement of the open air so that movement is initially permitted in all fields. So, in its speech, the Council of State said that it might be necessary to make adjustments — for example: related to nature protection – in particular. But there are also a few other issues there that I think are important. One is the consideration of plantations. So plantations are part of the field today, and if one is to have free cycling or riding in large plantations with newly planted forest, it can lead to major destruction. Is there also a topic that the Council of State would like to include in the question of setting any requirements related to it? The other concerns cycling and riding in general. There are, of course, many outlanding areas where there can also be quite considerable damage in the outlanding. Does the Council not see the need for some emptying, through established paths and pathways?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e404	When we flip the principle, it means that we don't take as a starting point that something is forbidden, but that we take as a starting point that something is allowed. It is then necessary to be able to regulate what is allowed, where it conflicts with other considerations. We know that cycling can cause wear. We believe it is generally important that all those exercising outdoor life take into account other outdoor practitioners and nature. Therefore, good cooperation and dialogue between the various actors is important. But we also know – and this is the report – that it is not necessarily such that cycling leads to more wear on paths and vegetation than foot tourism. It varies both with the behaviour of the cyclists and with the local conditions. We have planned field studies under Norwegian conditions to complement this subject base, just to learn more about wear and tear, and this will be important when designing the detailed rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e411	I think it is good that the Council of State is also willing to problemate the paths of free cycling and riding in the field, because it is clear that in some areas, with local variations, there may be a significant problem and create significant wear and strain on certain land areas. There may be a need for regulation, and there should be separate paths for it. But the state council did not comment on that with forest plant fields. There is also a very concrete problem, which affects a number of forest owners – we have over 10,000 forest owners in Norway, and they plant new forests, and the newly planted forest and the plants are part of the outland. Is it true that one also there places some constraints that make one not ruin those plant fields that we all depend on, when we're going to have a new forest, which again binds CO 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e421	I am concerned about the forest – both the natural diversity and the carbon-binding effect – and therefore fully agree with the representative Arnstad that forest plantations are important and should be allowed to develop. This means that there must be one of the themes to be considered in the evaluations that will now be carried out, the further studies to be carried out, in order to obtain a good technical basis for the development of this more detailed legislation, not least related to the wear and tear associated with cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e426	I'll follow up the same theme. When you turn around and open up bicycles and other non-motorised traffic, not only in the field in general, but also in the protected areas, you have a special responsibility for complying with the safety regulations, that someone sets the necessary limits, that this work is actually done. And I assume that it has to be done when designing these visiting strategies – that you have to have a holistic view. But it's in the protection areas, and it's good if you can comment on it, but then we have what's outside the protection areas – both in terms of cycling and riding as well – because there can be a lot of conflicting interests here, both in terms of nature protection and in terms of a desire to have some sort of regulation. Then my question is: how do the councils view the role of municipalities in making these decisions, because this will very often be entirely local assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e439	I also think in this area, as with coastal waters, that taking into account the local situation, that local actors are talking about what are the good solutions will make sense. In Oslo we have a good example of how different actors have spoken together. It has established its own rules on cycling and cooperation between the various organisations for outdoor and nature protection, bicycle associations and the municipality in order to establish rules to ensure that the various actors do not conflict with each other. So an active approach from municipalities to address the different concerns will be very important to ensure that different groups are allowed to use outdoor opportunities, but that they also take into account nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e450	Government parties are being supported by the Centre Party in the Chamber today to fail in public access to the beach zone, since this is how the beach zone is being built down. It's a problem. With stricter regulation from the red-green government, there was a reduced decline in the coastal zone building, but the government’s own government platform opened up to a greater degree of degradation of the beach zone if the municipalities wanted it. Is the Council of State satisfied that the coastal zone is being built down, is he satisfied that government policy is leading to faster degradation of the coastal zone, and is it that the government actively chooses to close its eyes to knowledge, when they do not even want to take an evaluation of how today's legislation works?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e457	First of all, the government is very satisfied – and I think many municipalities are satisfied – with the fact that they have received a government that trusts local authorities, who have confidence that local politicians too are concerned about nature and the opportunity to experience the inhabitants of the municipalities, and are willing – and able – to find good local solutions. It is not as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås suggests, that the degradation of the beach zone has increased in recent years. Statistics from the SSB suggest that the construction of the coastal zone has gone down steadily in recent years, partly to a significant extent. It is very positive for the possibility of outdoor life in the beach zone. We will continue the work of improving access to the beach zone. We would like, among other things: develop a guide on overall planning in the sea areas. We want, as I mentioned in my post, to give priority to areas in the coastal zone for State security and, for example, to areas in the coastal zone. remove the ban on tentation which is no longer necessary. So we agree with Eidsvoll Holmås’ intention, but disagree with the reality description.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e466	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e484	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e493	The government has presented proposals for changes to the pollution law and the Svalbard Environmental Act. The Committee supports the amendments. The changes clarify key concepts of waste legislation in such a way that Norwegian waste terminology is closer to the EU. Furthermore, we are today laying down criteria for what can be regarded as by-products and not waste, and the conditions for when waste ceases to be waste. Furthermore, provisions on waste hierarchy and clarification of obligations regarding the legal handling of food waste are introduced. The Committee considers that there is a need for a regulation which provides that the consent of the municipality is not necessary for the rental of waste containers to owners of dwellings, housing companies and joint ventures, cf. the third paragraph of Section 30 of the Act. We wanted this regulation so that today's functional service provision aimed at household customers who need to rent containers to carry away bulky waste by cleaning and hard work is continued. The government has announced a big deal about the circular economy. With this communication, the Committee will be given a closer look at the waste area and we look forward to that. There is a need for a comprehensive review of this field, including: how to reduce material consumption in Norway to a sustainable and fairer level, how to reduce food waste and food waste, increase material recycling and reuse, how to provide resource efficiency and reduce environmental pressures in society, as well as promoting economic growth and employment, how to better use industrial by-products, how to exploit them for new raw materials, and also how to use raw materials resulting from waste recovery. Here we have just by legislating and setting new conditions for when waste ceases to be waste, put down some posts that we can take with us in the treatment of the big message, which we hope will come before Easter next year. I would like to thank the Committee for its very constructive consideration of this matter. We have joint committee comments throughout the whole position, and we have agreed to make a regulation, and that it has been quite appropriate to change the pollution law and the swallowing environment law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e506	I am pleased with the good work done by the rapporteur and the committee to put in place this clarification and definition of key concepts in waste legislation. It is therefore a question of bringing Norwegian terminology closer to EU legal concepts in the Waste Framework Directive. The pollution authority has identified a need to clarify the definition of ‘waste’ and to define the concept of ‘recovery’ in the pollution law. These are concepts that are central to both Norwegian and European waste law. They are mainly to be interpreted in the same way in Norway as in the EU. A key objective of the EU Waste Framework Directive is to clarify just what these key concepts mean, and then it is important for Norwegian legal practitioners and their need for clarity and predictability that we make corresponding clarifications in the pollution law. It is in order to ensure consistency in the law that we recommend that the definition of waste in the Svalbard Environmental Act is amended at the same time, even if the EEA Agreement does not apply to Svalbard. We also propose to legislate criteria for what is considered to be by-products and not waste, and the conditions for when waste ceases to be waste, which clears the borderline between waste and product. It is also proposed to clarify the content of some provisions of the Pollution Act, inter alia. the guideline on waste management and the determination of nutrient waste. These changes do not imply any substantive changes to the current law, but it will make it easier for waste actors and others to inform themselves in the legislation, and it is therefore also in line with the government's objective of simplifying the legislation. I have a considerable understanding of the Committee's desire for the government to look at the consent rule for the rental of containers used to collect household waste, and I want to make sure that we follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e535	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e544	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. A broad majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, has joined the proposed legislative changes. It is proposed to include in the Natural Diversity Act a provision allowing administrative authorities to make seizures and a provision allowing administrative authorities to withdraw and to require offenders to cover the costs of withdrawal. Those provisions shall apply in the case of certain types of offences. In addition, the proposal also proposes some clarifications and the creation of incubators in the Nature Diversity Act and the Wildlife Act, which include: clarification of the prohibition of undue injury and suffering to wild animals and their reir, live or hi; clarification of the right to derogate from the rules otherwise applicable in the event of killing; clarification of the right to appeal against decisions concerning the withdrawal of cervids and tremors, etc. correction of reference to provisions of the Nature Diversity Act The need to improve the conservation of species and biodiversity and to ensure sustainable trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna regulated by the CITES Convention is the background to a broad majority in support of the Ministry’s proposed legislative changes. There is also a need for more effective enforcement of the EU Timber Regulation. It is important to prevent the release into the environment of alien organisms which are prohibited from importing, placing on the market or leaving them in accordance with the rules laid down in the Nature Diversity Act or the related regulations and causing adverse effects on biodiversity. In addition, it is important to remove such articles and organisms from the placing on the market so that they do not contribute to an undesired market for them. This is why we see the need for administrative authorities to take such action so that seizures and withdrawals can take place without undue delay. One then ensures that objects or organisms do not get into nature or are illegally traded in time by a user in order to further investigate the legality. It is important to point out that administrative seizures or withdrawals shall not be compensated for a prosecution where prosecution is desirable. While seizures are a temporary and usually short-term measure, withdrawal means that the owner loses ownership. In principle, therefore, access to administrative withdrawal will not concern matters of material value, as the legal text specifies. The legal text specifies that, as a general rule, withdrawal under the criminal law, not the Nature Diversity Act, is to be applied. The Committee supports this wording. We see that access to administrative seizures or confiscation can mean less legal certainty for individuals in this type of case. However, we believe that consideration of conservation of species and biodiversity is so important that legislative changes can be supported. We also believe that the amendment of the law can mean less red tape, since seizure or withdrawal can occur when suspicion of a breach of the law is revealed, for example. at border inspection. Finally, I would like to recommend the vote by the majority in the committee to I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e574	I take the word – a little short – to justify why the Senterpartiet will vote against II, which contains the amendments in § 72a and § 72b and § 15, in the first row. The reason for this is that there is something in principle about this matter, which is also important: Seizure and confiscation are a criminal offence, and the practice of giving administrative authorities the opportunity and right to seize and confiscation is not just a matter of effective state administration, but there is a question of the relationship between what is a criminal offence and the administrative authority should be able to do. We believe that it is up to the prosecution to be able to make seizures and withdrawals. We have noticed that this has been controversial in the consultation round, and that both the Police Directorate, Økokrim and Østfold police districts have had strong objections to allowing administrative authorities to make seizures or withdrawals. Therefore, the Centre Party will not support the proposal to amend Section 72. Nor will we support the proposal to amend Section 15. At first sight, it may seem that § 15 is a clarification of the issue of the prohibition of unnecessary damage and suffering to wild animals, but in reality it is probably not only a clarification, but also an extension, if you look carefully at the form in which the law has been amended. It has also been pointed out by a number of hearing bodies. We believe that if this is an extension, it should also have been justified and brought up in another way. We cannot vote in favour of a change in the law which, in effect, extends the provision instead of clarifying it. This does not mean that we do not support the purpose of the legal paragraph, but we therefore believe that the clarification that one here is making is, in fact, an extension, and that it should have been subject to a different treatment and debate than what we have received in connection with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e581	Let me thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. I am pleased to see that all parties in the committee, except the Central Party, support this bill. Alien species are today one of the greatest threats to natural diversity. It is therefore important to be able to seize and confiscate alien species that have been illegally introduced, placed on the market or put into the environment, in order to prevent such species from damaging Norwegian nature. Also illegal trade in endangered species represents a major threat to many species. The CITES Convention, which is part of which Norway, therefore requires countries to be able to implement withdrawal or return to the exporting country where such species are illegally imported. Illegal logging has significant negative consequences both economically, environmentally and socially. This maximum leads to the loss of large revenues by the authorities in the countries concerned and undermining legitimate activities. Both trafficking in endangered species and forest crime constitute significant parts of the networks of internationally organised crime, with implications both for social stability and for international security. As a general rule, seizures and withdrawals may be carried out only by the police and the courts. It provides a tongue-rooted system, which lays unnecessary hold of the police's resources. By opening up administrative seizures and confiscation in demarcated areas, others can carry out these tasks, and the police can spend time and resources on other and more important police tasks. In particular, alien species are clearly in need of seizure so that they do not escape into the wild. In other situations, there is also a need to act quickly, for example: where there is a significant risk of a species or objects being sold or the owner tries to dispose of them by other means. It is therefore important that administrative authorities now have access to seizures and confiscation. While seizures are temporary, confiscation will be permanent and will therefore be more relevant to the individual citizen. For this reason, as a general rule, administrative withdrawal will only be applicable where species or objects are not of material value. If the nature or object is of material value, the rules of the criminal law applicable would generally apply. In the opposition of the Central Party to the proposal, it is shown, inter alia, that: that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and other hearing bodies in the consultation round were wholly or partly opposed to the proposals for administrative seizure and withdrawal. We have changed the proposals on several points in the light of the consultations. Among the changes made was clarification of the scope of seizures and withdrawal, so that the rules were not applied too widely. A provision on the threshold for withdrawal was also included. This was something that had been open in the consultation round. The legislative proposals as they are now available are something that the government is naturally behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e616	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e625	Thanks to the proposers for addressing an important issue, which I feel all the parties at Stortinget take very seriously. However, in this case we have not come up with a common proposal, and in other words we have a divided position. I believe that those who do not follow the majority in this case will come up with their views, and I would like to explain why we do not propose any proposals on the occasion of the case. As regards the proposal to change the base charge on drinking water packaging to a charge on material use graduated from the content of new non-fossil raw material, this was addressed in the 2015 budget. The majority asked the government to consider a plastic tax based on fossil CO 2 content while exempting bioplastics from the tax. The imposition of such a charge was rejected on the grounds that a levy should be imposed, it must function for a given purpose, be possible to implement the charging legislation, be checked and not excessive administrative costs incurred, either by the charging authorities or by the taxable persons. After a thorough review, the government concluded that these assumptions were not present – which was agreed by the majority of the financial committee. I can't see that there have been new elements in the matter that were to be said to change the decision that was then taken. Furthermore, it must be possible to emphasise that we do not have enough knowledge of all environmental impacts over the life cycle by increasing the use of bio-based plastics from different types of biomass. The Environment Directorate has therefore had no professional basis to conclude that a tax reduction on bioplastics in the base charge will have a significant environmental impact. In addition, a general fossil plastic charge has been proposed and a levy has been introduced on all chemicals from fossil raw materials and other material uses not covered by the CO 2 tax. This too has been assessed and has been found difficult to implement. Most articles contain plastics or are packaged in plastics. Such a charge would therefore involve a taxable quantity of goods which is almost universal. Furthermore, there is no full overview of chemical substances and mixtures which are based wholly or partly on fossil raw materials and on which a charge is sought. Therefore, such a charge could break basic principles for the design of excise duties – which means clear limits, that it is possible to verify for the charging authorities and does not have significant administrative and economic consequences for the taxable person or for the authorities – and could be incompatible with Norwegian and international obligations, including the EEA Agreement. Such a charge will be very large and will need to cover both fossil-track chemicals and mixtures in use which are currently wholly or partly exempt from the CO 2 tax or which are part of any product, whether the product is produced in Norway or imported. The scope of charging, control and administrative costs for industry and the country will be significant. Plastic has become an important material in today's society, but it has also given us major environmental challenges, not least in terms of marine pollution. I know that the government is concerned about plastics and its challenges, and I expect them to come back to this in the context of the work on the circular economy, in the context of the work currently being done in the EU. We believe that the solution lies here and not in imposing a tax that is very demanding – if not impossible – to introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e649	Today we surround ourselves with a number of plastic-based products – in the PC, the car, toys, kitchen utensils and equipment, packaging and, above all, plastic bags. When you start looking around, it's surprising how many products are entirely or partly based on plastic. It will be a comprehensive job to get an overview of what these products contain, thereby ensuring a transition, so that all material uses are renewable and based on recycled raw material within a certain year, for example. 2030, as mentioned in the proposals. However, I am pleased that the Left places the introduction of environmental taxes on fossil plastics on the agenda, but the Workers' Party does not support the proposals for a tax in this area. It is justified in the letter from the Minister for Climate and Environment, where it appears that the introduction of environmental taxes on fossil plastics will not have a positive environmental impact, that the changes will not work for their purpose, that they are not feasible to implement the charging legislation, that they are not verifiable, and that neither the charging authority nor the charging officer are such that they do not have a high administrative cost. To support the introduction of new environmental taxes, the Workers' Party is a minimum requirement to have a positive impact on the environment and that changes should work according to its purpose, i.e. that manufacturers move from fossil plastics to plastics from e.g. biological material. When the Department cannot say that this is the case with the proposal from the Left, we cannot support it today. But we are promoting our own proposal, which I am pleased to have received broad support. There we ask the government to consider how to design a tax on fossil-derived plastics and how to solve the demarcation problem. This is what we want in connection with the state budget for 2018. This is precisely because we believe in using charges to get consumers and producers to choose more environmentally friendly solutions. But today, with the clear advice we have received from the Department, we need more knowledge before we can support changes in fees. But we support a proposal that the Left has put forward, on «enhanced industry recycling agreements, with significant increased targets for recycling and use of recycled and renewable raw materials as a new objective in the agreements».
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e661	In this matter the Christian People's Party will make a brief comment. This is a case of history in this room, and as it has been tried to do something with also earlier. For various reasons, it has been difficult, but we don't think we can give up on what's difficult. We fully agree with the proposers that all the funds need to be assessed and used in order to get the green shift in this area as well. We have come to the conclusion, after careful discussion in our own party, that a part remains before such a charge can be imposed. We have therefore chosen to join the Labour Party proposal where we ask the Government ‘in the context of the 2018 State Budget, return to the Stortinget with assessments of how a tax on fossil-derived plastics can be designed and how the demarcation problem can be resolved’. Once again, I would like to stress that we must use all the instruments that promote reduced CO2 emissions, and that the fact that we did not find a solution to the demarcation issue either last year or last year, is no reason to put the matter in a drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e673	In principle, almost all fossil plastics can be replaced by bioplastics. There are some great opportunities in climate policy that we should discuss and that we should take seriously. That is why I think it is good that we have such a proposal. It's a little keely that we're dealing with it in the middle of the state budget discussions, because I think it also has little effect on the possibility of going into the issues of the Document 8. However, there is no doubt that global plastic production is a major challenge, both environmental, climate and not least waste. At least in some areas, the transition from fossil plastics to bioplastics could reduce the problem. This is not least true on the climate side. So far, we have not really discussed this issue on a broad basis in Stortinget. In fact, there are no policy-initiated instruments to discuss how to transition to renewable raw material for plastic materials. I think of this Document 8 as a starting point for a discussion about it, and I'm pretty sure we'll get back to it as well. The central party's starting point is that it is important that we get a little further, sail if we cannot expect that all the proposals presented in document 8 today will have a majority. That is why the Centre Party is also involved in a number of proposals. We believe that a proposal for a specific instrument to be submitted to achieve a target for the recovery of this type of raw material and raw materials is important. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. We also support a proposal for a differentiation of taxes on drinking water packaging. There is also a question of the Central Party that has been involved in the past, and we have been faced in the Financial Committee with the issue of whether it has been rejected by the majority, because they think it is too difficult to set up fees in such a way. The centre party believes that this should be possible. We are also involved in proposals that could encourage the use of bioplastics, and we are also involved in the proposal for an industry agreement. It may be a way of getting on with this issue and getting it to political discussion at a later stage. I think it is an important issue, which the Committee has not come far enough into today's debate, but which I think we need to come back to, because it is a key issue both climate-related and, to a large extent, environmental. So the Central Party will support the Committee's recommendation to Decisions II and III, but we do not support I. And with that, I would like to be allowed to address the proposals of the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e690	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e695	I would like to thank everyone for their overall support for the proposal, but it is in fact that we need to find a practical solution to this, because it is a major problem with plastics; it is a major international problem in terms of marine pollution. So there are 300 million tonnes of plastic produced every year, about 500,000 tonnes in Norway. It corresponds to an emission of CO2 equivalent to about 1.5 billion tonnes – 2.5 million tonnes in Norway – so it is a major environmental problem. It is clear that when I hear from the government parties that no, this was up in the budget for 2015 and an assessment has been made, then I can say from the Left that yes, it was a consensus, but it was not supposed to be a loose assessment by the government. We just agreed because we had to get into the problem properly to find a solution. I have to remind you that there was exactly the same response from the department that it was not possible to achieve, as we were to avoid a mineral oil tax while at the same time having increased blending of biofuels. There we found a solution. There was exactly the same negative feedback when it was intended to introduce a mineral oil tax on natural gas in order to make biogas competitive. That's where you're going to find a solution. This is the same thing, here you also have to figure out a solution so that we can use the charging system to get more bioplastics, and to use more recycled plastic. The potential is enormous, you can, technically at least, replace 85 pst. of fossil plastics with bioplastics. So this is divisible by, it's hard to figure out how to find one grip from a general fee. That must be further worked on, and we agree with that. But at the same time, you can start by strengthening the industry agreements that are there. A measure of only 30 pst. is too low in relation to the level of ambition. It could be a lot higher than what's there today. A problem arises quite quickly – I think it may be the first – and that is when it comes to the basic charge on the packaging of beverages. There are now recordings from the Brewery Association, which want to have a change on this fee. Firstly, as the tax is today, it does not function as an environmental tax. This has even been the subject of the Green Tax Commission, which is a fiscal levy that does not have an effect today. But if you change it and apply the fee to what is the content of bioplastics and recycled plastic, it is possible to get this done. This industry has a self-interest in being also part of, because if we keep the tax as it is now, and we reinforce the waste hierarchy in waste policy, that is. the fact that running waste for incineration with energy recovery does not give the same status as material recovery will dramatically increase the tax as it is currently designed. That's right, because burning is a worse environmental solution than recycling, but we should now take another step. It's completely unnecessary that the industry, without doing anything, gets an increased cost. It is much better to achieve several things at the same time, that you get both less combustion and at the same time more recycled and bioplastic into the drinking packaging. This is the way to do this, you don't have to do the long investigations for. The left has now addressed this issue of reducing fossil plastic use several times in budgetary matters, now we are doing this in this proposal. We're so pleased with the majority who are, but it's not close enough to go far enough. I'm going to guarantee that it's going to be taken up again, and the first time we do it, it's going to be in the budget for the next year as well. I bring up the proposals No. 3 and 4, which is part of the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e716	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e721	Let me start by thanking the Left for bringing up this proposal. At the same time, it is only to recognise how hopeless – no, it may not be possible to say – how little offensive government, as supported by the Left, is in the environment, when it is unable to deliver on the conversion of fossil plastics, despite the fact that it has been investigated a number of times. Let me say the following, because it's been the starting point of several: there are three different reasons why we should reduce the use of plastics. One is that 80 pst. Of all the oil in the world going to make plastic, and it has a fossil side that we have to reduce for climate reasons. The second reason is purely resource management. There's too much waste of plastic today. If you look around at any store, if you're going to buy any thing – and then I'm not just talking about groceries, but about all sorts of other things: Lord my hat, how much plastic it is. And the third reason is congestion. We know, and the Environment Minister has been one of those who have brought it up internationally, that our oceans are going to be filled with more plastic than fish if we can't do anything properly. There are clearly two approaches that work, and that we can do as national authorities. We were in the high-level week of the United Nations and followed one of those meetings. The Americans were quite clear on what they were going to do to reduce the consumption and siphoning of the sea with rust and speed. But I felt that Norway was more wanted about what we were going to do. There are two things that work. It's regulations, and it's charges. I do not see that the government is willing to use any of it, rather respond positively when there is a proposal from the Left that is widely supported, but unfortunately not this time by the Center Party, to give the government a mandate to design a plastic tax and come back with it in 2018. Let me say two very simple things to Odd Henriksen. He made an article about: Fy flat, so bad and difficult this is, we can't possibly do this, because there's so much demarcation problem. But this is about what you care about as important. We have a bunch of issues and charges today with demarcation issues, but where we have nevertheless chosen to keep the fee or to introduce a fee. It's enough to mention the chocolate fee, which is about what's at the bottom. Is there biscuits in the bottom, or is there chocolate in the bottom? That's what determines whether you have to have this fee. It actually doesn't have much to do with the amount of chocolate. It's a tax that the government is charging to make the budgets go up. Saying that it's important to do something about the consumption of fossil plastics and plastics in general in society, and then making some diabolical changes, is just about political will. You can put down a sample, ask for suggestions for different design of a plastic tax and then get something on the table. Then you have to make some constraints. And then it's not going to be perfect, but it's going to be something that works to reduce the use of plastic. That's what I think was a better starting point. The second is about the basic charge. Here I have an input to the Left of the budget negotiations that they are about to enter into now. There was a weak investigation the government presented for the current year's budget, because they said we can't have people from the Customs and Fee Directorate running around all the places where bottles are produced, to see if these bottles are made of fossil plastic or renewable plastic. But again to the representative Odd Henriksen, who before he came to Stortinget, represented a business association. What do you do in business if you are told that if you use fossil oil to make these plastic bottles, you have to pay a full fee, but if you use renewable oil, which you can guarantee is renewable oil, or the bottles are made of renewable material, you will get a reduced fee? That's when you make a third-party authorisation solution. It'll be industry's suggestion, always. Then they say, OK, here's a lot of money to save for business. Let's get a third-party approval for this, and then we'll make sure it does. This is, of course, the business community used to do in all sorts of other areas. You could have done that here, too. It would have been a win for those who have invested in renewables, and it would have been unbureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e737	As we all know, we would need 2.5 Earths if we had raised the entire world's population to our material consumption level. There are not so many solutions to such a problem. One solution, of course, is to make sure that the poor continue to be poor, so that we get away from the whole problem. That's what most of us think is a bad idea. The second option is to reduce our own consumption. The third is to use our resources much more efficiently. Of course, there are measures number two and three that we need to implement. The proposal made here by the Left with merit is a very small part of the means of making our resource consumption more efficient and less polluting. This took place on a much larger scale in the EU when, in December 2015, they presented an action plan to take Europe towards a more circular economy. One of the objectives of that action plan is to decoupling resource consumption from economic development. If the EU succeeds in establishing such a circular economy, we are really on our way into a new era. One of the things that will happen then is that the waste industry will increasingly be considered a recipient of garbage, and increasingly will be a supplier of raw materials to other businesses. For all countries, not least Norway, such thinking implies opportunities for new business development. Those who have seen the waste industry in Norway over a number of years see this in itself as a great example of how environmental protection and good pollution policies create jobs that did not exist before. This is just the beginning of the possibilities that exist. Even in Europe, which is probably the world's highest average recycling rate for materials, we recycle something in the direction of 5 pst. of the material flow. In other words, the waste is gigantic, and the possibilities of doing something with it are equivalent to gigantic. The proposals for which we will have a majority today will, please, contribute a little bit in the right direction. The majority asks the government to come back with an assessment of how a tax on plastics with fossil origin can be designed. Then I strongly urge the government to do this in a constructive and offensive way, which involves charging plastics in line with Storting's intentions. In addition, enhanced sectoral recycling agreements are a good tool that I am sure the industry will address, but which it needs help through the charging system. This is small steps on a big, wide and long way, but we need a lot more. We need concrete targets for recycling and recycling, not just energy recovery. We need much more stringent requirements for producer responsibility. We need clear demands for source sorting for food waste across the country. We need VAT exemptions for repair services, the establishment of industry standards for recycled raw materials and the prioritisation of products from recycled raw materials. The Green Party has put forward proposals on the only thing that will solve the plastic problem on a large scale, namely that Norway is taking the initiative of an international convention on the production, use and recycling of plastics. We have suggested this because the plastic problem is the biggest pollution problem in the world after the climate problem, and it is a pollution problem that is increasing violently, both in the supply of plastics to nature and especially to the sea every year and in the effect that more and more plastics already in the wild are being painted up to what is actually poisoned. This was voiced down in Stortinget, but there is a certain follow-up by the Minister for the Environment – although it does not at all keep the same pace as the increase in the plastic problem holds, so more pressure is needed here. For Storting, we can do things at home, the challenge is to do it quickly so that we do not even need an EU directive as a rescue plan for the measures we ourselves do not adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e752	It's true, as the representative Hansson says, that plastics are probably the world's biggest environmental problem, alongside the climate problem. It is definitely the fastest growing pollution problem, while plastics are an important material in today's society. Both the production and combustion of plastics lead to high greenhouse gas emissions and, in addition, large amounts of plastic end up in nature, not least as marine litter and microplastics. These are challenges that the government is very concerned about, and that we are actively working on. We are now considering, among other things: in the context of the circular economy, how resources such as plastics can be maintained more effectively in the economy, and how we can make ourselves less dependent on using new fossil raw materials. The Environment Directorate is now investigating cost-effective ways to dispose of wet organic waste and plastic from household waste and food waste. The European Commission has also presented a comprehensive policy package to support the circular economy. Increased recycling of materials is central. They will promote their own plastic strategy, and the EU will also strengthen the knowledge base to ensure sustainable use of biomass and bio-based products. In addition to our environmental authorities following the work in the EU closely, before the summer of 2017, the government will present a major report on waste and the circular economy. I believe that that message will give Stortinget a good opportunity for an overall discussion based on the best available knowledge, including on plastic issues, as the representative Arnstad among others. wanted. In the future, it will be important to further assess the role of biomass and bio-based products in the circular economy and in the low-carbon society. It is also on the agenda of the European Union, inter alia. through the work on the circular economy, and we also need to look at this in Norway. I agree that it is important to find good alternatives to the use of fossil resources, but it is also important to do so in a good way. Today, we lack an assessment of the amount of biomass that can replace fossil material as a whole, and what is the best distribution of biomass resources. It is important to ensure that increased production of bioplastics does not adversely affect climate, biodiversity, land use and food production, and that it does not contribute to the spread of microplastics from also biodegradable plastic products. We are going to have a discussion about biofuels later today. There we have some experience that what we thought was climate friendly turned out not to be as climate friendly. Putting the prefix 'bio' in front of something is not necessarily a solution. We also need to know what the results are for climate and biodiversity. Fees on plastics of fossil origin have been assessed in the past, as mentioned above. In the examination of the 2015 budget, Stortinget took a Roman decision asking the government to assess a plastic tax. We evaluated this in the 2016 budget, following assessments by both the Directorate for Customs and Taxation and the Directorate for the Environment. Following a review, the government concluded that such a charge should not be imposed. A majority of the financial committee joined. Most products today contain plastics or are packaged in plastics. This means that a charge on all plastics of fossil origin will imply that the volume of goods subject to excise duty is almost universal. Therefore, the economic and administrative consequences will be significant for both importers, producers and charging authorities. It also means that such a charge will be very difficult to define and control. Furthermore, according to the charging authorities, plastic packaging is not required to be labelled with the content of biobased material, and therefore the assessment by the charging authority is that such a charge is not feasible. I believe that in the light of the lack of knowledge about bio-based plastics from different types of biomass, we do not currently have a good enough basis for establishing that a tax-favorisation of bioplastics will have a significant environmental impact. Based on that, the government does not recommend that additional resources be used on another assessment of whether a tax should be imposed on plastics of fossil origin, but we will of course follow up any majority decision in this room. I would like to emphasise once again that as part of the ongoing work on the circular economy and the upcoming waste and circular economy impact report, it would be natural to assess these issues in their entirety, to assess the plastic problem in full and to assess whether future EU material recovery targets should be implemented in, for example, regulation or in the industrial agreements for packaging. It may also be relevant to look at how the use of renewable raw materials can be promoted, but there is therefore a need for increased knowledge and investigation before this can be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e771	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e776	The Minister for Climate and Environment clearly states in his statement and also in his letter to the Committee that the introduction of fossil plastic tax would have no positive environmental impact. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister for Climate and Environment believe that the introduction of new charges for consumers and producers to make more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly choices in everyday life is the way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e781	I believe in fees, as opposed to some interpretations in the media over the past few weeks. I also have faith in regulations, and I also have faith in research efforts and incentives for technology development also in material technology. I don't think we should exclude any instruments in general in terms of the response to the plastic problem, but we need to have the necessary knowledge to know that what we are promoting, for example, is what we are doing. a charge is better than what exists today. It is not that we know today that increased production of bioplastics will necessarily produce very favourable results for climate, biodiversity, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e786	The Labour Party, together with several other parties, is promoting proposals here today to explore how we can phase out fossil plastics, get more knowledge of it, and thus introduce and use the charging system. Then I wonder whether the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has at least one year left in his chair, will make little effort to gain more knowledge on the table in order to assess such an environmental tax in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e791	First of all, I want to follow up the decision of the Storting. Secondly, it is important to acquire knowledge not only in order to assess a fee, but also in order to look at the whole range of instruments we need to put in place. We should do that in Norway, and we should also do that in interaction with the EU, which has pointed out exactly what I point to: the need for more knowledge, not least about the bio-resources and the amount of biomass that can replace fossil material collectively. So we're going to do that. I believe that in the big message that we are now working on on waste and the circular economy, it is natural that plastics should have a significant place, and that there we use the opportunity to discuss how we are going to deal with this in a comprehensive way. This problem is perhaps the world's biggest environmental problem, and it is not in Norway that we have the biggest challenges, but we have to contribute both at home and internationally, including in the framework of EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e796	I am pleased with the signals coming from the Minister for Climate and Environment here, and we are seeing, as I have said earlier in the Chamber today, up to the big message to come. The Workers' Party has chosen to support one of the proposals to the Left, on enhanced industry recycling agreements to increase recycling and increase the use of renewable raw materials as a new objective in the agreements. In the letter of reply from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, I see that he is actually positive and believes that this will have positive environmental effects, but there are EU processes in progress. So then I want to get the answer: even if EU processes are in progress, we need to be able to introduce our own Norwegian legislation, our own industry agreements. Then I would like to get an answer to the following: Why does the Minister for Climate and Environment, together with the Right and the Advance Party on the Stortinget, not want to support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e803	I'm open to the possibility that an industry agreement may prove to be a right path in the future, but I won't lock myself to the fact that it will be the only good solution. I think it's also important that we have more knowledge before we decide whether it's a regulation, an industry agreement, a fee or what it should be that gives the best results. Good cooperation with the industries is extremely important, but we also see that there are no solutions that necessarily produce results overnight, and there are solutions that also require considerable knowledge acquisition. The process we have on the food waste problem of working with an industry agreement has proved to take longer than we thought. It's not because we get a bad result, it's because the results get better the more knowledge we base on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e808	Obviously it's complicated, but it's not that complicated either. We've tried more things. It was a plastic bag tax, which was not possible – although the British have introduced one and have reduced their plastic bag use by 80 pst. So there's someone who's done it. In California, plastic bags are banned and have been banned for many, many years. That's pretty common. When the Council of State says that bioplastics do not produce a clear effect in relation to fossil plastics, it is at least new to me. This is based on the same sustainability criteria as one has to have for where the biofuel comes from. Otherwise it gives a positive effect. What he is right about is that the plastic itself – even if it is bio-based – can lead to marine litter or microplastics. It's a problem. My question is based on the basic fee. Will the Council of State go in and look at changes in the base charge — it should be simple — in order to get a more environmentally friendly device on it towards the packaging of beverages?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e819	First, I would like to say that comparing the good, old debate on plastic bag tax is not entirely relevant. A plastic bag charge will be relatively easy to frame technically. A tax on all fossil plastics is another problem. We have considered the proposal to change the base charge. We also did so in the context of the 2016 budget. We believe that making it easier for bioplastics in the basic charge will complicate the charge – being demanding to check – and therefore do not want to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e827	I see from the statements of the Council of State that he wants to reduce the use of fossil plastics — of plastics in general — in society, and at least it considers it to be a huge environmental problem. But what he's suggesting is not related to describing plastic pollution in nature as the world's second-largest environmental problem, at least the biggest pollution problem. If he does not intend to impose a tax on the use of plastics, how does he intend to reduce the use? Is he going to want the plastic away?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e832	I still want the plastic away, but I realize that it is not enough. That's why we're dealing with several things. We have an action analysis for plastics that the Environment Directorate has been working on. They also work with one about microplastics. That's what we're going to evaluate. As I said, it's natural to see the work on the paper on the circular economy in the light of this. In assessing what kind of instruments we need to use, we need to be open to all instruments. But it's also important that we don't choose an instrument without making a thorough assessment of what the consequences will be and just on a kind of assumption that because it's called bio-based plastic, it'll be something better. We do not know enough about the environmental effects of the use of biobased plastics over the life cycle. So going for a fee, as suggested here, would be too easy, too fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e839	I think the council repeats what is a bit too frequent a pattern from this government, doing pretty obvious things so complicated and detailed that you can't do anything with them. It is well and good to ask for knowledge development – there is never anyone who disagrees – but that is something we know. One of the things we know about plastics is that plastic itself is completely okay, it's not a problem. The problem with plastic is the volume, and it's a big problem even if we use biological material to make plastic. The question to the Council of State is therefore: Will he work towards an assessment of the volume of plastic placed on the market and used in Norway and a plan to reduce that volume, based on selected criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e846	At the risk of – yes, not even at risk, I am going to – repeating myself: We are working on a big deal about the circular economy. Circular economy is just assuming that it's no longer about use and throwing. Not only should you look at the clean-up side and possible recycling, but you should also look at how to minimise the use of a resource initially. It'll be important to do it also in the case of plastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e851	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e869	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e878	I would like to thank the representative Eidsvoll Holmås from SV for addressing a matter that is important in the debate on sustainable fuels. A minority in the Committee have made proposals in this matter, which they will probably discuss later in the debate. Increased use of biofuels is an important part of the solution for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. It assumes that the biofuel has been produced in a sustainable manner. The government will present a long-term plan for increasing the use of sustainable biofuels by 2020, which facilitates emission reductions and a more predictable framework for market actors. In the 2017 draft government budget, the government proposes to increase the marketing requirement for biofuels from 5.5 pst. to 7 pst. The government is also looking at the possibilities for marketing requirements for air traffic. This week, the Stortinget mandated the Government to propose a turnover requirement for the use of sustainable biofuels in the marine fuel. The sustainability of biofuels is a fundamental prerequisite. There are strict requirements for how and where the raw material has been produced. The raw material must have been produced in such a way that it meets the sustainability criteria, such as: include greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements and land requirements to ensure that it is, for example: is not wooded rainforest or drained bogs to obtain land for raw material production. In this case, there is a question about the content of palm oil in biofuels. Early in spring, it appeared in the media that ‘palm fatty acid distillates’ — PFAD — originating from palm oil production have been mixed into biofuels traded in Norway. Inclusion of this substance is a new situation in Norway. The solution to increase the placing on the market requirement for biofuels in automotive diesel has been to use HVO, where the main weight in the international market is based on palm oil. There is reason to clarify that palm oil used in fuel is fully acceptable provided that the product meets the EU sustainability criteria. The Directorate-General for the Environment has classified PFAD as waste/residue from the production process, since the substance arises unintentionally in production and constitutes only 5 pst. of the volume compared to the main product. In April this year, the product was reclassified as a by-product and fully covered by the EU sustainability criteria. The reclassification has resulted in a tightening of the documentation requirements for how and where the raw material has been produced. The sustainability criteria for biofuels are set out in the Renewable Directive and harmonised within the EU/EEA area. There is reason to point out that the peculiar application of sustainability criteria would not be able to give a general ban on palm oil raw material. The EU Commission is working on proposals for a revised renewable directive from 2020, and Norway has been a driver of stricter sustainability criteria for biofuels. There is also reason to note that exemptions or reduced rates of taxation are to be considered State aid under EEA law and that, in our view, it will not be possible to impose a tax only for biofuels containing palm oil or PAHAD in whole or in part, while other fuel variants will not be covered. This is also supported by the industry. Biofuels will be a very important part of the solution for reducing emissions from the transport industry — on land, sea and air. The government is working with the cooperative parties through its climate and forest commitment for a more sustainable production of palm oil. Increased production of advanced, sustainable biofuels will therefore be an important part of climate change and green change. The possibilities are great, and I'm glad that there are several areas where there is an active effort to increase production in this country, too, which will give us more biofuels without palm oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e895	One of the most important sectors in which emissions need to be reduced is the transport sector. Biofuels can then be an important part of the solution, while we need to look at a number of other measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector: increasing the electricity car share, hydrogen consumption, public transport, etc. If we are to increase the use of biofuels in Norway, we need to be sure that biofuels are produced in a sustainable way. The proposal we are dealing with today, from SV, means to stop using biofuels based on palm oil. As the rapporteur explained, there is a relatively new situation in Norway where the blending of PFAD from palm oil production into biofuels has been achieved. We believe that the use of palm oil in fuel is fully acceptable as long as it meets the EU sustainability criteria. Following a review by the Environment Directorate earlier this year, it has been shown that PFAD is fully covered by the EU sustainability criteria. The peculiar application of the sustainability criteria will not give a general ban on palm oil raw material. At the same time, it is good – and I would like to stress this – that Norway remains and has been a driver of stricter sustainability criteria for biofuels in the context of the revision of the renewable directive. I hope that this too will continue strongly in this area. We in the Workers' Party are open to consider increasing the use of sustainable fuels in Norway, while there are a number of conditions that need to be in place before we can further increase the demand for biofuels, on the basis of government proposals that are on the table now. We need to be sure that biofuel production does not replace important food soils in Norway, we need to ensure that we continue to increase the production of food soils, and we also need to assess whether Norway can become a key player in producing sustainable biofuels that are not produced from palm oil but at the same time do not crowd out Norwegian forests that can be used for other important things. So we're looking forward to getting the government's plan to increase the sales requirement for biofuels by 2020, and maybe we'll get it on the table during this big time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e906	Biofuels will be an important part of future renewable energy mix. But this assumes that it is produced in a sustainable way. Biofuels produced from palm oil are not unproblematic. Research shows that the harvesting of rainforests related to palm oil production will be more negative for climate change than the use of fossil fuels. It is positive that it is working to ensure that only sustainable palm oil is used in biofuels in the EU, but it does not solve the problem if the growth of sustainable biofuels in Europe leaves the rest of the world with non-sustainable biofuels. In this way, we can end up in a situation where increasing biofuels globally will result in a negative climate effect. This means that sustainable growth in the use of biofuels is directly linked to halting deforestation. The sustainability criteria for biofuels are set out in the Renewable Directive and harmonised within the EU/EEA area. Therefore, the peculiar application of sustainability criteria would not be able to give a general ban on palm oil raw material. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that it is important that Norway continues to be a driving force for strict sustainability criteria in the EU’s work on proposals for the revised renewable directive from 2020. But it has to be stressed that this is not enough. We need all biofuels – wherever in the world – to be sustainable, and Norway must continue to be at the forefront of efforts to stop the deforestation of rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e915	The centre party believes that we should do what we can to phase out palm oil-based biofuels and use a more sustainable biofuels. That's also our point of view in this setting. That's why we and several of the other parties are together on proposals to achieve that. We believe that it is unfortunate and unnecessary to contribute to the continued expansion of the palm oil industry in Europe and elsewhere, thus also helping to destroy, among other things. rain forest and peat bog. That shouldn't be necessary. It is fully possible, and it should be possible, to use a more environmentally friendly biofuels. It really agrees with the whole committee, as I read the comments, because there is a joint committee that says that it is necessary to make a transition to biofuels with better sustainability than today. Actually, the whole committee agrees on that. The difference is that some of the parties will not challenge EU legislation in this area, and instead of adopting something that brings the matter forward, today, says that they will await work on proposals for a revised renewable directive sometime after 2020. That's what the Center Party thinks is unfortunate. We believe that it should be possible for us to address this issue, address these proposals and move on to our own keel in Norway, both in terms of preventing the use of palm oil products containing PFAD, and also in order to establish an industry standard that is better than the minimum currently available within the EU sustainability criteria. Then I feel that more people are trying to problem the possibility of environmentally friendly biofuels, including: from forest. I understand that the representative Ljunggren said that we have to be careful so that we do not repress food soil. I just want to say that I think it's not such a big issue, especially in Norway. In Norway, we have large forest resources that we do not use. Growth in Norwegian forests is much larger than harvests every year. We actually harvest too little forest in Norway. We also clear too little of the jungle and the “herd forest” found around Norway. Much of this could have been done in a much more offensive way than today, but the will to do it is too small, and the market for part of that forest is too poor. It also means that you don't get profitability in part of what you want to develop in the future. The centre party sees the need for stricter regulation, but also sees the possibility of producing environmentally friendly biofuels as very large, and we find it strange that the majority here is really pushing the EU ahead, because that means that we are going to come back to this room once after 2020 and discuss whether this is feasible to implement. With that I will be allowed to address the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e930	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e935	First, I have to say that when I hear the Right and the representatives of the Advance Party highlight how the government has proposed to increase the blending of biofuels from 5.5 pst. To 7 pst., I am a little surprised, because the government has only done what was decided last year. It was part of the budget negotiations last year, and this is a follow-up to it, just like that follow-up when we increased to 5.5 pst., was also part of budget negotiations. But what they're right about is that as we increase the use of biofuels, we have to make sure that what we use follows the sustainability criteria. It's a challenge. The sustainability criteria must be constantly developed. But on the left, we nevertheless believe that this is a process that must be done in cooperation with the rest of Europe. It's important to keep this process going, and we have to use the influence we have. But that doesn't mean you have to be passive, and we don't have to do that when we increase the interference, because then – in our opinion at least – we have to demand that it be high-value biofuels, i.e. double-counting fuels, which are going to be the increase to 7 pst. This is technically, but it is extremely important, because it is the requirement that this is a change that builds on Norwegian forestry and Norwegian food development. This activity is then given to the development of economic activity in Norway. The paradox is that if we hadn't had a change in the evaluation of PFAD – which we suddenly had to learn a lot about last winter, I hadn't heard about it before, but then I had to learn a lot about PFAD – so that it was defined as a by-product, it would take advantage of this extension if it hadn't been made a change. What is very good is that the Directorate-General for the Environment has re-assessed that PFAD is now subject to the sustainability criteria and will therefore not be able to be used in the increase in interference that we are now going to have in Norway. If there's one field where the devil really lies in the details, it's on this. It's right to use more biofuels, even beyond 7 pst. But the sustainability criteria have to be tightened over time, and we have to make sure that it's the high-value biofuels that we're now going to use more, that can also help build up Norwegian business. We also have to bear in mind that biofuels reduce greenhouse gas emissions if they're done in the right way, but they don't give us zero emissions. We still have to reinforce the effort to replace this fuel, whether it's electricity or fuel cells and hydrogen. But we really have to move on to future solutions that give real zero emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e946	Let me start by saying a thousand thanks to the President-in-Office for his nice words, and let me follow up by thanking the Council of State for the fact that, just after I promoted the proposal we are discussing today, he got speed on the Environment Directorate and got the reclassified PFAD from being a ‘residual from the production process’ to a ‘by-product’, so that proper sustainability criteria have been introduced instead. That's good, because it weakens the competitiveness of PFAD – it really makes you get it out, as far as I can understand. This applies from 1 January next year, so we'll see how this works. But at least that's point number. 1 – ‘check’ for the Council of State, and that’s good. Had the Council of State been equally effective with regard to my other proposals, I would have really been satisfied, but it is not the Council of State. So let me just go through: Biofuels shall play an important role. There is a broad consensus that it will play an important role in a transitional phase for cars in Norway to run mainly on other fuels – electricity, after all sunmarks, and probably hydrogen in heavy transport. But maybe there's also going to be more of an element of electricity there as well. So it's a transition technology, which really is a second best solution and not a first best solution – not the best. But for the car industry, it's important. Different biofuels are going to be used in the pursuit of the perfect. We already have some biofuels that are completely super. There is no doubt that you get very good results from, for example: the use of residues of slaughter, of wood oil, of products which may otherwise not have been used for any reason but which may be used for fuel, and not least bioethanol made from sugar cane, if it has been made in a sustainable way. But then it's the palm oil. I am disappointed that the Council of State does not show a greater willingness to tackle the palm oil problem. It's like now, even though we're doing what we're doing now against the PFAD, palm oil is going to be a major part of the biofuel that's after all the sun brands. What the state council is doing is stretching weapons and just saying that we can't do anything about this. I think it's too passive. I would like to mention that both the Rain Forest Fund and ZERO are very clear that it is believed that palm oil as it is today is not sustainable enough because there is so much of the market that is unsustainable palm oil, and that the demand for palm oil will only lead to increased deforestation and increased unsustainable use. That's why we should get on with it. Let me do two things. One is trade agreements. That almost doesn't respond to the Council of State. All he says is: ‘In any case, I would encourage the industry to use the most sustainable biofuels available on the market.’ It's pathetic. You can compare it to what other government councils have done to the industry: we have Bent Höie, who has invited the industry to join in to reduce salt use. The Council of State could take a similar initiative towards the petrol industry by saying: now we are going to make sure that what is sold at all Norwegian gas stations is not imposed by the state, but we agree on a set of criteria for what we think is good, and then we implement it as a voluntary industry agreement. It could have had a broad upturn, instead of making such a general good-good-and-good-new-year call to the industry, which in any case will not be followed up, because the industry will choose what is the cheapest. As long as some actors could be out there, the other parts of the industry won't lose. But if an industry agreement had been reached, this would have been different. I encourage the Council of State to meet the industry in November – I think it is November 7 – where there will be discussion about biofuels, including, be there, participate and invite to dialogue. The second is the charging system. As a member of the Financial Committee, I have been involved in doing a lot with the charging system in order to take action. I know there's an incredibly much bigger room there than what the Council of State is expressing through its answer to us. He just says this is going to be very difficult – that's what the Ministry of Finance says. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to look at the tax legislation in order to produce the type of biofuels that we think is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e967	Thanks to SV, who has made important proposals in an important case, which can be illustrated by the fact that, in the proposals for the national transport plan presented in February of this year, it is proposed that some 1.7 billion litres of fossil fuel should be replaced by biofuels by 2030. Today, about 200 million litres are used. It illustrates the perspective of what we're now doing, starting to look at a situation where there are very high expectations of all the problems that biofuels can solve, and then we're more aware that biofuels are a complex fuel. I myself have had a personal involvement in this, for I was the man who, on his ignominious diesel SUV, had PFAD in mind, who led far on the way to our now standing here and discussing this matter. But the interesting thing about that issue was that it should be no more than a focus on the matter before the Council of State properly started a reclassification of PFAD from waste to – what it is now called – resources, yes, it is understood, before the industry itself backed up. And today, palm oil products in biofuels are not available for sale in Norway. So worse it's not to make such demands as this. That is why I want to draw attention to the need to be ahead of me, and that is where I am a little disappointed by a large majority of people who are currently very close to sticking to an EU standard. For what is quite obvious is that this type of fuel, which first of all – quite correctly – has to be essentially a transition factor in the transport sector, contains a lot of challenges, ranging from food to biodiversity via cultural landscapes and a lot of other things, and it will have to be regulated in great detail. So proposal 3 in the SV representative's proposal to ask the government to "start an industry agreement with the Norwegian Petroleum Institute to develop an industry standard that is better than the minimum EU sustainability criteria" is a key proposal on which the Storting should have spent more time and attention, because it is exactly the kind of move forward of the standard that we will become completely dependent if we are to be able to use biofuels constructively. There is no doubt that there is a high potential for economic development in the forest industry, probably in the future also for the marine industry in Norway, in producing raw material for biofuels. At the same time, however, it will have to be clear that this will be limited in use, and there will be very great opportunities for error steps if the measures are not adequately regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e975	That is why I hope that work on developing standards for biofuels in Norway will move forward, both in the form of an increased ambition on the part of the authorities to make demands that the industry can adhere to, and a more offensive attitude in and towards the industry itself to take action on its own and go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e978	The transport sector is an important cause of climate problems and must be an important part of the solution. Biofuels are part of the solution in the transport sector, but I agree with the last speakers that it is not the only solution, and that it is a solution of modifications. Biofuels may contribute to the reduction of transport emissions provided they are sustainably produced. We should not forget in this discussion that most of the biofuels traded in Norway today are conventional biofuels produced from food crops. It has an uncertain impact on global emissions. It is therefore important that we ensure, as far as possible, the use of sustainable biofuels. As the proposer pointed out, his first proposal was that the government should follow up the use of biofuels based on palm oil through reclassification. There have been many enough people involved in the debate. I would like to emphasise that – in addition to being there, we are now certain that any PFAD in Norwegian biofuels does not originate from plantations recently established by cutting rainforests, and that PFAD cannot be double-counted by meeting the marketing requirement – we have now presented a sales requirement plan towards 2020, where we set for the first time in 2017 a sub-requirement for advanced biofuels of 1.5 pst. in the placing on the market requirement. We also say that further escalations towards 2020 will take place with advanced biofuels. It adds up and facilitates a transition to more sustainable biofuels. Furthermore, PFAD will not be able to form part of the new sub-requirement for advanced biofuels, as PFAD is no longer considered as waste or residues from 2017. The second proposal by Eidsvoll Holmås is more difficult: to ‘ensure that the Norwegian application of sustainability criteria and tax regimes prevents palm oil products, including PFAD, from being used as biofuels’. It is more difficult because the sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids are fully harmonised within the EEA territory and we cannot derogate from them, according to our EEA legal obligations. Some of us take it very seriously that Norway should be a credible partner within the EEA. But it is also the case that the work on more sustainable biofuels will be more effective if it is included in a European context. We cannot introduce special Norse sustainability criteria that prevent the use of palm oil products. Under the EEA Agreement, exemptions from taxes, or reduced rates, are to be considered State aid. Therefore, it would not be possible to impose a charge outside the placing on the market only on biofuels containing palm oil in full or in part. Similarly, a levy on non-sustainable fuels alone would provide an exemption for sustainable fuels outside the scope of the turnover requirement. It will also be regarded as State aid. There may then be reason to discuss how helpful State aid legislation is at all times, especially in the climate and environment field, but there is also a discussion that needs to be taken within an EU and EEA context. This means that the government's ability to introduce sustainability criteria and a tax regime that prevents the use of palm oil and PFAD is limited. I believe that the most appropriate way to ensure the use of sustainable biofuels today is by being a driver of more stringent sustainability criteria in European legislation in this area. The EU Commission is working on a revised renewable directive from 2020, with revised sustainability criteria for biofuels being included. Norway has been involved in this consultation process, and I have also mentioned with the European Commissioner that we need stricter sustainability rules. Finally, I would like to mention that the use of palm kernels in biofuels was a new situation in Norway in the spring, but through the fact that the PFAD is no longer considered waste or residues, we ensure that the use of palm oil is restricted. It is important to ensure the use of sustainable biofuels, and I generally also encourage the industry to use the most sustainable fuel available in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1001	Let me get to the last sentence of the Council of State, which is where he encouraged the industry to do good, but as the Council of State, which is, of course, the Right-Man, very well knows, it's so that business very often chooses to do what pays most, rather than doing what's best. Therefore, my call to the Council of State is as follows: it is often the case that industry is willing to do what is best, if all of them do so, so that it does not lead to unequal conditions of competition for the various actors. Why does the Council of State have a reluctance to do what many other government councils in his government have done in different areas, namely to engage in dialogue with the industry and challenge them to participate in an industry agreement that ensures what the Council of State thinks is sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1006	What I think is most important – although I am business-friendly and have a great deal of respect for business industries – is that we make the regulation clear and clear by sending clear signals to the actors. It changes behavior. Because an industry agreement will not be legally binding, we cannot be sure of the effects of such an agreement on the use of biofuels, also because many are asking questions about access to sustainable biofuels. I believe that where we need to put energy in, we need to work for the development of more ambitious sustainability criteria at European level. Then I also believe that the changes we have implemented in Norwegian legislation, when we also call for future increases in the use of biofuels, the plan we have up to 2020, gives clear signals to the industry and will ensure the use of biofuels with better sustainability in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1011	It's fascinating with a government council that thinks it's better to regulate the industry than to engage in dialogue with it, as opposed to the very many other Right-People in this government that he himself is part of. I have worked closely with the industry since we received the first marketing order. I wondered if instead we should have an intervention order or some other form, but the industry strongly recommended in dialogue with us that the best way to do it was a sales order. I see the industry as constructive, but the industry is still such that it needs to be challenged, and dialogue with it is needed to find proper agreements. As I said, industrial agreements are a good experience here in Norway, because we have a good relationship with both industry and workers. Why in the world will the Council of State not bet on an industry agreement that could be better than the legislation that the Council of State is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1016	We have neither the government, the Ministry of Climate and Environment nor I personally have any opposition to industrial agreements. I'm engaged in trade-agreement discussions in other areas. But here we have legislation that is fully harmonised in the European Union. There is a policy process in progress in the EU related to biofuels with sustainability criteria on the table. Then it is important that we work for more ambitious sustainability criteria at European level. Then we do the job we do at home, which Elvesuen had in mind, together with the cooperation parties to strengthen biofuel policy and strengthen the requirements of sustainable biofuel policy. That 2020 plan will also give a clear signal to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1023	The Council of State is quite categorical about the fact that it is impossible to go beyond the sustainability standard that the EU now has, that any changes must be made in consultation with the EU. So we have just seen a brilliant example of what flexibility we have, as it was agreed to reclassify PFAD from waste to residual in Norway, as has happened in the United Kingdom. There are several such flexibility within the current EU sustainability criteria. Can the Council of States confirm that efforts will be made to exploit the flexibility existing in current legislation to raise the standards and sustainability requirements to the maximum level of biofuels in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1028	I am happy to confirm that. These include: what happened when the Environment Directorate re-assessed the classification. They also did so after examining how this was handled in other European countries. There is therefore a considerable degree of flexibility in how we categorize biofuels in Norway, but it is therefore a total harmonisation in terms of fuel requirements – we cannot impose requirements that are different or stricter than those resulting from the directive. That Directive does not require biofuels in themselves to meet the sustainability criteria. The requirement is that the criteria must be met in order to be able to count biofuels into the requirements of the Directive on emission reductions per unit of energy. This is, as many have been involved, very complicated, but it is important that we follow the rules within a fully harmonised regulatory framework, and that we exploit the flexibility we have in the harmonised legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1033	I agree that both the legislation and the agreement with the EU are important, so that you get a set of sustainable criteria. However, pending the EU, perhaps a significant factor, if we are to build much of the future fuel on sustainability criteria and biofuels, is that we are actually also looking at what opportunities we ourselves have to assist in sustainable biofuel production. I am thinking both of exploiting the forest, as Marit Arnstad mentioned, and also of the opportunities that lie in the sea. What initiatives will the government take to increase the possibilities of producing biofuels from its own material, precisely to support the concept of sustainability in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1038	I very much agree with the representative that we need to see how we can ensure sustainability and how we can build Norwegian green competitiveness at the same time. Unlike electric car policy, which has a lot of positive sides, but which may not have contributed so much to Norwegian industry development, here we have an area where we can actually do it. The plan we have put forward for stepping up biofuels, for stepping up sustainability requirements towards 2020, will have a real climate impact both nationally and globally. But at the same time, when we are betting on advanced biofuels, that is what will be a Norwegian competitive advantage. Norwegian production plans apply in the first series of advanced biofuels, and a plan towards 2020 and a notice that we will not stop in 2020 build up under these Norwegian production plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1043	I thank you for your answer. I agree that producing advanced biofuels based on biomass in Norway is a great opportunity, but I'm a little surprised that it actually goes a little late. I have had contact – and I think many in Stortinget have had – with very many relevant projects for advanced biofuel production, which clearly meet the sustainability criteria. But it's very hard to realize the projects. Often it's because they're hard to finance. Risk capital is not available, etc. So so far, there's a lot of talk about biofuel production, but little concrete action and targeted development so that we can build on the biofuels in a safe and good way, with Norwegian biomass. So concrete: is there any point the Council of State believes can remedy the situation and increase biofuel production in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1052	We have a plan that gives predictability to the nutritionists, which will be a good starting point. We have several support schemes that will be in place and that this government has strengthened. With regard to the absence of risk capital and the importance of securing stronger Norwegian ownership environments, there is a constant discussion about property taxes and other issues. However, there are no significant barriers to production in Norway. I remember that the plan we have now submitted towards 2020 has been very well received – not least in the forest industry – because they see that it gives direction and predictability to the nutritionists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1060	There's been a lot of talk about biofuels in Norway, but it's done incredibly little. It is important that one increases the interference requirement. It is true, but there is no certainty that the value added resulting from biofuels is generated in Norway, because it is not profitable to produce biofuels in Norway — at least not on timber, which is the most natural. Norway does not participate in the value creation process. Norway does not get part of the green shift. There's a lot of possibilities with this. From the government's point of view, there's talk and talk in abstract terms, but there's nothing that's done about what's the core question, that's profitability. There has to be profitability in the industry and throughout the industry to get it done. Therefore, my question is: Will the government soon put forward concrete proposals to change the framework conditions for private business, so that biofuel production – whether ethanol or diesel – can be profitable in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1067	We have done several things from the government to facilitate both pilots and testing in the case of biogas, in the case of bioethanol, and in the case of making use of Norwegian forests and Norwegian forest residues in the production. I remember that the forest industry received the escalating plan with considerable enthusiasm. We are also concerned — not just for this area but in general — with Norway building green competitiveness. Next week, the government's expert committee on green competitiveness will be set up. The committee's mandate is that we should reduce emissions, that we should increase growth and that we should create more jobs. It's incredibly important. There is a fundamental green transition Norway is going through. We're going to become a low-carbon society, but at the same time we're going to continue to be a high-income society up to 2050. That means we have to lay the foundation for green growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1074	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1081	I just thought I'd follow up on the last round of biofuels. Since the last part of the debate we have now had, has gone into a pre-post-fection on the budget, I think I'm going to make some reflections here and just briefly say some things relating to the budget that have been submitted. On the management of biofuels: Per Olaf Lundtigen – and, to the extent, Ola Elvesuen – is quite right when it is said that the government has not been on the offensive in the case of biofuels. On the contrary, the majority of the population, either the opposition or a total majority of the population, have forced the government to come back to biofuels, which they have repeatedly failed to follow up on in the budgetary documents with which they come back. Last time, in connection with the revised national budget last year, we had a new rematch after the government had been informed – in order to ensure that this would be done in a good way – that they would come back again with a proper way to escalate the sales order. And then they come back and they say, "No, we don't intend to do that anyway." It creates an entirely unsustainable situation for the industry and removes the credibility of the government. No one dares to invest in investments, whether it is in new biofuel production, or it is only as simple as biofuel reception facilities with imports from abroad, for example. from Sweden, which among some of its actors has a much higher share of biofuels, made from among others. tall oil, which is a residual or by-product from the wood industry over there. Then the point is that I would like to say the following to the Council of State: I think it is very good that the Council of State has now manned up and got the government to make a stepping-up plan towards 2020. I think it's very good, and I think the council deserves credit for it. That's why I'm giving praise now. The state council has to take it up. He's taking care of it. It's good that there's a plan like this for the first time. What I think is the weakness of the plan is that it has too little scope. One should have had with the part relating to free fuel. In my opinion, one should also look more closely at aviation, where biofuels may become a longer case. I believe that the Council of State is wrong when he believes that the escalation as the Stortinget has set up is too high, and I believe that the Council of State should consider that precisely because, as he himself says, the well-known plans for Norwegian production apply for the period after 2020, it will be crucial that that plan extends until 2025 – at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1094	I'm not going to spend that long, but I have to say some words. What's good is that we now have a broad consensus in Stortinget that biofuels are actually something we're also going to bet on. But I have to say that we lost five years, from 2008 to 2013, when the user fee for biofuels was introduced. There was also an economic development in Norway, but it was stopped completely, and it is only now that it starts again when we have an activity. I also believe that what has been the origin of this case, the one with the PFAD, has been solved in many ways. There won't be any more in Norwegian biofuels. What's important now is that we stick to the fact that there's high-quality biofuels we're going to have more of. Then there's also an economic development, whether it's at Follum or elsewhere, or it's within biogas in the forest. These are examples of making investment decisions. Here also comes Norwegian business. It is also good for forestry. But it's not the stick we're going to use for this -- the stick we have to make sure that we get other values out of, that we can use it more in building materials and in other ways, but that it's the residual waste that's also in forestry, we can now use it much more towards biofuels. But we're making a challenge for ourselves, because now we're increasing the integration requirements in petrol and diesel. We have an exemption from the mineral oil charge. We've asked that we have more biofuels into shipping. So it's clear that we're making a challenge for ourselves considering whether we'll be able to produce enough of the sustainable biofuels that we'll need. Over time, we will also have to control the biofuels – not towards the car park, but perhaps in a transition towards heavy transport – more towards air transport, shipping and where it is more difficult and at least will take longer before a get electricity and hydrogen as the real solutions in future transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1105	Just because biofuels are an important and constructive contribution to the transition to real-emission-free transport, it is also important to know the framework within which we can plan. As I have already referred to, only the expectations that are drawn up in the road sector about the use of biofuels are three times as high as the forest industry says they can deliver themselves. In other words, this underlines that here we are planning to produce a fuel based on maximum final biological resources, mainly, and the use of biological resources – whether in agriculture and food production, etc., or within more or less organised applied nature – will have environmental consequences and other consequences. Therefore, the need to start planning and to create scenarios for the resource situation we are facing is very important in order to be able to plan how much biofuels actually will and will be able to contribute within the transition phase in the transport sector. Adding to expectations that biofuels will contribute much more than the environment and our nature tolerates, we have no interest in. It creates conflicts, and it creates problems. So I encourage the Council of State to bring it home. We need resource scenarios for Norwegian biofuels in the years to come based on different types of technology development and use development, which provide all parties with a framework for what kind of expectations we can have, and what kind of time perspectives we can have on the short-term and long-term use of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1110	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1115	Since Ola Elvesuen started writing history by saying that we lost a lot of time because of the red-green government, I just want to say that I agree that it was wrong to make the change that was made on the biofuel side. At the same time, I don't think that Ola Elvestuen should be so tall and dark, because he must remember that we lost several years of the government in which the Left sat, among other things. Per-Kristian Foss, dropped a bet on biofuels, which were announced, which were wanted, but which were scrapped in the last round. It was the red-green government that put in place the first marketing order. I am pleased that there is now a broad consensus in the Storting to get the stairs up, and I am pleased that the discord that we have seen from the government parties to sabotage the escalations that have been wanted by the Storting, now at least this budget is mild, even though it is not in line with what the Storting has adopted as a desired escalation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1120	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1136	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1145	Thank you to the Left, who has made an important proposal to extend the scope of the Marka Act. Thanks also to the SV, who, together with the Greens, have proposed additional areas for this proposal. I assume that the parties who do not support these proposals will explain this in due course. The starting point for these proposals is that what makes the Oslo region the world's best metropolitan area to live in, is the amazing access we have in nature and outdoors. The fact that in one moment we can be in the center of an international big city, or in one of the residential areas around, and in the next moment – in half an hour – may be out in free Norwegian fjord or forest nature, is quite unique and absolutely amazing, and we have to take care of that. The Marka Act, which has been so wise to adopt in the past, is a very important instrument. And even more importantly, it is now the means by which this region will have – according to the forecasts – hundreds of thousands of new inhabitants. Then it is absolutely essential to plan in a way that preserves the values that do well to live in the Oslo region, even in the decades to come, and one of those values is thus the open-air areas, the non-residential and industrial applications. And if that's what we know, it's that expanding cities, towns and cities in Norway have a grueling appetite for nonsensical, inefficient, priceless use of cheap natural areas, instead of developing effectively within the areas in which one should evolve. In the Oslo region, there are already good plans for regional development. That is why we believe it is a very good additional measure to define clearly, quite clearly, the areas – in addition to those already covered by the Marka Act – as open air areas, to delight all citizens now and in the future. The Marka Act itself contains an intention on this, which we see as perfectly clear, and the eight areas for expanding the field that we are proposing, as well as the Left's proposal on Follomarka, are Tanumplatået, Rinilhaugen, Varingskollen, Linfåningshögda, Krokskogstupene, Stubdal, Bislingflaka and Bånnkallia. These are, all of them, small areas with very high natural qualities, very low levels of conflict if you look at the number of people involved, and they complete, on the basis of all the professional and other criteria, the existing areas within the mark line in a very good way. Placing these areas within the land border is good regional development, and it also helps those to further develop the Oslo region to concentrate on the forces for effective and good development where it is to take place, not where it is not to take place. In the case of Follomarka, it is a larger and more complex area, which will require more investigation and more thinking before it is proposed in detail, but at the same time it is an area of very high quality, which clearly qualifies to be protected from a bit-by-bit extension that could destroy it. I therefore believe that it is a good idea for all the parties on Stortinget to think carefully about whether this is not a proposal that one would nevertheless support, despite what is in the position. These include: because I am pretty convinced that we will have a development in the Oslo region that will make it clearer for every year that goes, that these are areas that we should take care of and that we have the tools to take care of. I will take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1168	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1173	I will be brief, because I can essentially join much of the description that the rapporteur had, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good report and the Left for promoting this proposal. The Marka Act ensures that we take care of our urban land here in Oslo. It's quite unique to have a capital where we have the land lying around us. It's important because nature has a value in itself, and then we ensure that the inhabitants of the Municipality of Oslo and the municipalities around have access to open-air areas, which is what we need, based on the discussion we had this morning. Nature is at all times threatened, and I am very pleased that there has been a limit to the field, because it is not a single project, or an action, that threatens nature – no, that is how it is eaten up step by step, and that nature loses in the fight against others, often quite good, purpose, but nevertheless it is important to set a limit on which natural values we are to take care of. It was a historic day in Stortinget when, in 2009, on a proposal from the red-green government, a law was created for Oslo and the surrounding areas. There were 19 municipalities, 5 counties and 1.2 million inhabitants with a legal boundary. The fact that we set limits should not set limits on development. On the contrary, it is just as the rapporteur said in his statement: that we set some limits on what we are going to take care of, that also shows all the places where there is scope for development – and there should be development in the areas around the capital. So even though there was resistance when the proposal from the red-green government came, also from the Right, it was finally just the Progress Party that voted against. Now, some years later, I think most people would agree that the decision the Stortinget made was a success. We in the Workers' Party are open to expand the mark line, and today we are voting for a proposal asking the government to present a case on that. So we're not ready in this round, based on the Left's proposal for Document 8, to go into all of these specific areas, but the Labour Party is behind the proposal for decisions where we ask the government to present a case on this in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1186	The Marka Act is important for many and has been a source of debate on growth and protection in the capital area since its introduction in 2009. It has been blamed for galloping housing prices, and even former prime ministers have called for a look at the land border and at where housing is to be allowed. What we are going to discuss here today, on the other hand, is a proposal to extend the scope of the law. The purpose of the law is, as is known, to promote outdoor life, natural experiences and sport. Within the scope of the law, therefore, planning and building measures other than agricultural purposes are prohibited and the law must preserve a rich and varied landscape with cultural memories. These are principles upon which a unanimous committee supports. A majority of the Committee will also call on the government to promote a case of extension of the scope of the Marka Act, and a minority of the Left, SV and the Green Party also point to specific areas they think should be added. For the Right, the protection of natural and landscape areas is important. We are also concerned that people who live closely should have good access to green and open air areas. Land areas in the metropolitan region are a source of amazing natural experiences and are very important for recreation and outdoors for very many people. However, we are also concerned that when society uses such a powerful instrument as the protection of areas is in fact, it should be done in a way that is firmly anchored in local democracy and that ensures that all relevant interests are given the opportunity to participate in the process. We cannot therefore support a proposal to extend the scope of the land law without further delay. As pointed out by the Council of State in its letter of reply, it is natural that substantial changes in the scope of the Marka Act are determined by the body which has determined the limit initially, namely the Stortinget. In any case, such a major change in scope as is proposed in this case should not be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act. The opening-up of the land law and the scope of the law is also based on its broad anchoring and the participation of the municipalities, landowners and organisations concerned in any change. It is also worth pointing out that regardless of the land law, individual municipalities can, through the provisions of the Planning and Building Act, set aside areas in both municipal and regulatory plans for, among others. natural and free areas with their own provisions ensuring the use of the area. On this basis, many municipalities have set their own land limits. Municipalities may also designate areas such as regard zones with associated guidelines and regulations, such as: shall ensure open air and green structures. I would also like to mention that the government has announced that it intends to promote a separate case to the Stortinget during the session, about the law of the mark and the mark limit in the light of the process of adjusting the mark limit. As is known, the mark border was adjusted 47 places in 11 municipalities by Royal Resolution in the autumn of 2015. In contrast to the proposals made in this case, these were the adjustments of smaller areas, where the boundaries were originally set through the yard or residential property or were impractical for other reasons. At the same time, it is worth noting that several of the municipalities have wanted major changes to the border, among other things. to open up residential development near the collective connecting point. On the other hand, these areas are so large that they cannot be adjusted in regulations, but they may be useful to consider removing the land to allow climate-friendly housing in press areas in Oslo and Akershus. I am pleased that the majority today are not in favour of extending the scope of the Marka Act on the basis of this particular case. Any extension of the land boundary should only be possible after a thorough process of local anchoring in which all interested parties are given the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1205	A lot of positive has been said in this case. The Christian People's Party agrees that the Marka Act has been and is a success, and that it is an important instrument for ensuring access to open air areas and ensuring the building boundaries for the future. At the same time, the law shall take account of the balance between the public's needs for precisely this and the agricultural use of the areas. We also think it is a good idea to look at whether the scope of the law should be extended. However, we always think that there is an advantage if the Stortinget makes its decisions on an expounded and informed basis. In fact, the Stortinget itself, in its time, set the limits of the Marka Act, but any extension should be investigated by the government apparatus and presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Today, we dealt with the outdoor news and have been reminded in this context of the importance of well-being, public health and natural pleasure that people in densely populated areas also have access to natural areas within affordable distances. We look forward to the matter coming to Stortinget from the government, following a normal procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1217	First, I just have to be allowed to say that it is possible that there are some members of the committee who are stunned by the fact that the centre party is on the first page and say that we strongly support the aim behind the law. The aim of the Marka Act is open-air life, nature experience and sport, and we strongly support this. We believe it is very important in an urban region like Oslo that one has access to the qualities, that one has access to large outdoor areas, that one has access to natural experiences, and that one has access to sports. However, it is also necessary to recall that it is possible to have access without protecting an area. It is fully possible to have access to all the experiences, the outdoors and the sports, without one protecting the areas. The centre party was on the ground law in 2009. We didn't think it was easy. We are at the market law we were in, and we then adopted, but we do not want to participate in any extension of the land law today. There's several reasons for that, and I'll say a little bit about it. One is a more principled side that goes on that protection is a rather serious intervention not only in private property law, maritime, but also in local democracy. Where a person has the ability to obtain goods without protection, a test should be carried out without protection. When one has the ability to achieve natural experiences, outdoors and sports without protecting an area, one should do so without protecting it. Usually in Norway we protect under the Nature Diversity Act. It has some clear technical criteria, and they go on nature values and habitat types. The Marka Act introduces a type of protection that does not have the same professional basis as the protection under the Nature Diversity Act, and thus there is a risk, if the protection becomes too extensive, that it also weakens the legitimacy of the protection process and protection decisions in general because the professional basis is poorer. Then I must also say that we believe it is possible for everyone to have access to this nature, regardless of protection. Because it is not a protection of areas that prevent outdoors and natural experiences; there are enough other reasons why one does not get enough into forests and land, for example, than just the lack of land. The centre party has confidence that the municipalities are also able to manage these areas around Oslo in a reasonable way. The specific feature of an extension of the land law is that one will deprive local democracy of the opportunity to make assessments relating to those areas because it is a responsibility that, to a large extent – perhaps with the exception of agriculture – will be transferred to the department, state and county.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1227	Suffering about the matter today is about asking the government to present a case with concrete proposals, the Senter party wants to vote against it – because we do not want to present a case of our own, but also because we disagree materially with what would have been presented in such a case. We believe it is important that one has green areas available to all the people in the Oslo area, but we believe that it is fully possible to preserve it without further protection in relation to the law on the land, and we also believe that, in respect of how serious a protective intervention is in fact, one should not extend the land border, but should safeguard outdoor life, natural experiences and sport in ways other than by means of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1231	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Rasmus Hansson. I think I agreed with almost everything that was said. I also thank you for supporting the proposal. It is true, as it is said, that the marka is a unique quality at Oslo and a unique quality throughout the Oslo region. It's part of the whole identity of the city and the region, and it's just the short distance, the proximity, that's important here. The Marka Act has worked since 2009, and the Left can agree with the Center Party that there were aspects of the content of the actual design of the Marka Act when it was introduced, which we wanted to be different. Because there is no doubt that there is a lot of power transferred to the Ministry of the Environment, and it is not necessarily that the Minister of the Environment is more concerned with preserving than the local authorities are. Here you could have a different device. But what's important about the Marka Act is that it sets the boundaries, because it's the boundaries that are important to maintain and be clear, precisely because the Marka includes so many municipalities, and municipalities with a changing majority. It's absolutely vital that you have a common boundary, and that it's clear, so that we don't get a bit-by-bit development in the field. So it might be a curious thing that the starting point for this boundary was that 220 feet up in the hills around Oslo in 1934 was so high that you thought you could get a water pressure. Now there's a lot of reasons that things are going to be like they are, but you've seen the value of having this limit. It has been absolutely vital to keep the tight urban development in Oslo, and for Oslo's development there really is no reason to go in and break the mark line. There is more than enough space within the construction zone. You don't have to tear down the historical settlement, you don't have to go into the green areas, and you don't have to go up the hill – but you have to keep going. There's enough room for the urban development that's within Oslo, without having to break the marker line. What's special, and that gives reason to look at an extension, is the whole region. There is good planning cooperation between Oslo and Akershus on how urban development should be throughout the region. As part of that cooperation, a concentrated urban development on the collective nodes will be needed, and it will be right to look at an extension of the land border, so that the boundaries around the land areas we have are also set. For the Left, it has been particularly important to bring forward Follomarka, which is an area where clarification is needed, but which clearly has qualities that make it to be seen in the context of the rest of the field. This is not a dramatic proposal. It is not that we now dominate and run over all local authorities, we are just going to ask the government to come back with a case for an extension. I think it's a little strange that we can't get a majority for the moderate wording of the committee's recommendation. It's no more than asking the government. ‘Propose, as appropriate, proposals for an extension of the scope of the land law so that important natural areas in several municipalities in the Oslo region can have a legal land border’. So there will have to be a procedure, and I find it strange that both the Right is going against such a wording, and that the Senter Party, which has, after all, been a proposer – and who has been involved in the introduction of the Marka Act and is therefore also responsible for the whole of its device – will be opposed to voting in favour of this proposal. I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1248	The field battle has been going on for many decades, and we are well prepared for the fact that the battle for an extension could also take some time. But it's the right thing to do, and then we get to keep going until we get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1252	In both 2001 and 2005, I campaigned on the basis that I was going to be involved in implementing and implementing a law, to set the boundaries of the field. I have to admit that is one of the things that I am most proud to have had the opportunity to join in and do. Then I fully agree with Ola Elvestuen that there are good reasons to make changes related to exactly what he is addressing, namely, the question of whether to have, in what, after all, is a law to take care of the field, an authority that gives the state the opportunity to review in the cases where local authorities want to be involved. I think this is something that ‘the great we’ should work together on and see if we can’t get a proposal for changes in. I also think, on the basis of a debate we have had in the past, among other things. on the beach zone, that the district council Helgesen should be interested in giving that kind of power and authority to the locals, to the municipalities, instead. Thank you to the Left for your proposal. That is a good suggestion. I want to say two things to that. One is that there is a majority in the committee, but unfortunately not a majority in the Storting, which is in favour of extending the scope of the law. But it's such a big minority that there won't be any major changes after next year's elections until it's possible to do anything. Ola Elvestuen is surprised that the government will not agree to such a moderate wording, which, after all, is an invitation to the government to return to the Stortinget. I must admit that I am not so surprised that a government with the Progress Party is not interested in being involved in extending the scope of the law, but some people think it is a good idea to have the Advance Party in government. I think it's a really bad idea, and I hope we can do something about it after the election. The second thing I want to say is that in addition to putting a good framework around the amazing thing that Oslo is the municipality of the country that has the greatest biodiversity – we get a forest, we get access to open-air resources and areas – has an important climate impact. Because it's clear that setting a limit around a city, avoiding exactly what the case rapporteur was saying, everyone just says: Yes, but if we can't just build out a little bit more, we can't just build out a little bit more – and then all of a sudden, we've been running on with a bunch of inefficient expansions that create greater climate emissions, and that don't make city developers develop what we want in the world, that's good, compact, pleasant cities. I just want to remind you of one thing. Governments have contributed to the funding of the Commission for The New Climate Economy in their budgets. I was in Washington and saw them present a report on infrastructure investment. The most important thing they say is this: we need to ensure that investment in infrastructure does not contribute to what they call urban sprawling – urban sprawling – that it is everywhere but rather building compactly, because it is the most energy efficient. So we have a government that has prioritised, and put all its weight behind, to force new, big road projects out of cities, into conflict with what the climate minister is financing from commissions internationally for what to do in the rest of the world, but which is not to be followed up in Norway. It's stupid. But then at least it's good that we have the law on marks, which ensures that it doesn't stick out everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1262	I hope that in the next growing-up period – when this comes up and gets treated again, because this is not over – we will have a majority for an extension of the scope of the law and also have more specific fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1266	We started the day with a discussion about and treatment of the government's outdoor life message, and one of the main points there is just access to outdoor life where people live. The mark is Norway's foremost example of just that. Therefore, the marker limit is also important. The purpose of the Marka Act is precisely to ensure the boundaries of the Marka Act – the limit itself is set on maps directly in the law. Setting the limit in the law was an independent point in the adoption of the law to ensure the mark against future intervention. However, the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Law states that the King may, by regulation, decide to adjust the mark limit and make the law applicable to adjacent areas which have, or by means of arrangements or care, a similar value for open air life. If the scope of the law is to be extended beyond that, to areas other than those currently mentioned in Section 2, as the proposers wish, the law must be amended. This may be done through an amendment to paragraph 2 of the Marking Act so that the power of the King to extend the scope of the law is extended. With such a change, further expansion may take place through a subsequent regulation. Alternatively, such extensions may be made by changing the list in the Marking Act § 2 of which areas are covered by the field. In this case, the areas concerned will be added to the mark by the amendment of the law. Marka is the largest and most important open-air and nature area in Norway’s densely populated area, and therefore it is a national responsibility to take care of it. The Marka Act ensures that the areas in the field receive additional protection and the establishment of the boundaries is at the heart of the law. I am of the opinion that more extensive changes to the mark limit should be made by the body that has set the limit, that is, by the Storting itself. If the scope of the land law is to be extended to new areas that are not close to today’s land areas, or if otherwise the land is significantly extended, I believe that this should be done by legislative amendment. In view of this, I do not believe that any changes should be made to the Marking Act § 2 which gives greater access to adding areas to the mark by regulation. Any legislative proposal to extend the scope under the first paragraph of Section 2 of the Marking Act must be linked to specific areas. I believe that proposals to expand the Marka area should preferably be initiated by the municipalities themselves and not by the state. I refer here to the fact that most of the specific areas mentioned in the committee position have been promoted in the past and that there has been local resistance in the affected municipalities. I therefore do not want to support the continuation of these proposals if the municipalities do not want to promote them. Now, as others have been involved, municipalities have the opportunity to allocate areas in municipal and regulatory plans to natural and recreational areas. Many municipalities have established their own land borders on that basis. They can establish consideration zones with guidelines that ensure open-air life and green structures, so that municipalities also have significant tools for their part. In a short time, the government will promote its own case for the Stortinget on the Marka Act and the Marka Border. At the time of the adoption of the Marka Act in 2009, it was foreseen that the limit could be adjusted subsequently after input from the municipalities. The municipalities were invited to submit proposals for such adjustments, and in the autumn of 2015 the mark border was adjusted 47 places in 11 municipalities by Royal Resolution. Most of these adjustments include smaller areas, where the limit was originally set through the yard or residential property or was impractical for other reasons. At the same time, several municipalities have wanted major changes to the border to open up, among others. housing development near collective nodes, in line with the recently adopted regional plan for coordinated land and transport planning in Oslo and Akershus. The government will therefore promote a legislative amendment to the Stortinget with proposals for some further changes to the mark-up, both restrictions and extensions. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that I am – not least based on the excellent news of outdoor life that has been treated today – fundamentally positive to the mark, and will not reject the extension of the scope of the Marka Act, but I believe that it is important that a process to which the municipalities concerned have not been skeptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1290	A central paragraph of the Marka Act is § 11. It is the so-called Forest Protection Paragraph, which provides the authorities with the grounds for protecting them on a non-scientific basis. Adventure forest is – as most people understand the word – a question of sight. Some see adventures in the east; others see them in the west. My question is simple and in principle: Does the government – the Right Party and the Advance Party – want to expand, on a principle basis, the forest area that can be protected on such an unscientific basis, i.e. by applying the Marka Act § 11?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1297	The law of the land we have is a law of the land with which we live well. As I was talking about, we're concerned that if there's going to be changes in the scope of the law, it should be done on the basis of the municipalities. Within the current law, we are open to use the possibilities provided by the law for protection, but this will be due to a concrete assessment. It is true, as the representative Lundtigen points out, that the law of the Marka Act is based on outdoor life and not necessarily on protective qualities. But outdoor life itself is a very important national value, which is a good starting point for the application of the law on the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1304	Yes, the centre party is very concerned with outdoors, that it is an important value, and that it needs to be taken care of, but what emerged from the debate on this law earlier was that there were just strong followers of the law that wanted the least possible outdoors, and at least organised outdoors, in the areas. It's very interesting to have that perspective with you. We in the Center Party are happy that the Right is with us not to go further. We're glad you're taking the municipalities with you. It's absolutely central. So that's the agreement. But my question was basically: Will the government proceed from the Right and the Advance Party expand the possibility of using § 11, adventure forest protection, in several areas? Will one use that principle further or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1313	We have no plans to extend the scope of Section 11 or to extend the scope of Section 11 but to apply the law on the land and to apply the protection for outdoor purposes is something we could do. But there is something that will depend on a concrete assessment. There is no fundamental problem to protect for outdoor purposes, but our starting point for forest protection is that initially it is through voluntary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1318	What we are discussing today is the possibility of asking the government to do a job to resume and take care of several areas. Of course, it requires work from the department and the directorate. We have now seen that there is a considerable cut in the budget. Let's say like this: this effort to protect forests is considerably increased in the state budget submitted by the Council of State. Will the budget cut presented to the Environment Directorate mean that there will be less resources to do a job, to implement protection and to create a national park, for example. by the East?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1323	The efficiency we provide in the Environment Directorate is manageable, but it will have implications for the capacity of the Environment Directorate in some areas. Which areas it will be about, there's still some work to be done. But I can reassure the representative Holmås that our ambitions regarding forest protection, a decision and a target of 10 pst. forest protection, established by the Stortinget earlier this year. We have continued a record high commitment to forest protection, and we have even provided more favourable tax rules for jointers of forest for voluntary protection. So it's wrong when it's said that it's being cut into the possibility of forest protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1328	There is a limit to when efficiency measures become unmanageable and move on to a clean framework. I think that's where the Environment Directorate is, considering what's proposed next year. The Council of State stresses that he believes that decisions have to be taken where the decision was originally taken, i.e. in Stortinget. That's what we're trying to do, that's to get to a decision base by asking the government to do a job with the municipalities to see if you can find out about enlargements. But you don't want to. At the same time, I understand that if the municipalities want an extension, the Council of State is in favour of it. Does that mean that if you have a decision locally that you can build on, the Council of State will automatically go ahead and present it to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1335	First of all, I made it clear in my post that I believe that it is not the government that should be able to change the boundaries of the mark by means of an access to a regulation. It should be the Biggest, so if you're going to change the law, a change should be that it's the Biggest that's going to change the limits. Then we've had a discussion. Proposals were made by the Union for the Protection of Nature back in 2010 on the concrete extensions proposed in the proposal for a representative. At that time, during the period around 2011 the Ministry, under the previous government, met with the municipalities concerned to adjust the land border. In these meetings, the ministry registered resistance to the introduction of these areas into the field, as proposed. I believe that this is an important starting point here: to expand the mark, there must be locally anchored initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1342	Yes, but is it not the very purpose of a law that states enter and ensure borders, that there is a national interest to be safeguarded, and that a limit is set to the care of important areas? And in an area where we have the urban development we're going to have, in Oslo and Akershus, wouldn't it be right here, too, that the state goes in and assumes a responsibility to ensure that the important natural areas are cared for, and that we don't risk a bit-by-bit development? Here you have the opportunity, through an extension of the law on the land, to build on what is another state initiative, namely the planning cooperation between Oslo and Akershus. Doesn't the Council of State see that here one must necessarily also have a State involvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1350	Yes, that's the very starting point for the law, and it's not that many years since the law was passed on the basis that the boundaries are set here. What's a different question is whether you want some years later to expand, and how to deal with this. I believe it is right to be responsive to the municipalities. And of course, in the dialogue that we have between states, county councils and municipalities related to regional development in the Oslo area, the mark line is included. The dialogue we have now had, linked to both some limitations and some extensions of the mark line, is a good dialogue with the municipalities, and I think it is important that we have that sensitivity. If there is then an initiative from the municipalities to expand the mark line, we have to take it further in natural processes, but that's not where we are today. There are no expressed wishes of the municipalities for such extensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1355	I find it difficult to hear anything but that the council here abdicates from what is the whole intention of the law on the land, and that separates the law on land from the law on the land that all municipalities use to regulate their land use in their areas. Is it so to understand that this government has no intention of taking the initiative to use the law called the Marka Act for what is the intention of that law, namely to take care of national interests in order to safeguard outdoor life in the densely populated area of Norway? Is it so to understand that this government goes back to the situation we had before the law on the land, where any municipality could determine within existing laws how they would use their land, and that's all you did?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1360	We use the Marka Act for what was the purpose of the Marka Act. It was to ensure the boundaries of the mark against intervention and restrictions. And then it's that the question of expanding the field is another question. What the law on the land is for — and that is why the maps are laid down directly in the law — is to protect. We're on it. The question of enlargement is not a matter where the State should act on its own. There it is very important that we have a good dialogue with the municipalities, and as long as there is no initiative from the municipalities, I do not think it is right to proceed with proposals to put new areas into the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1365	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1372	The Red-Green Government submitted proposals for the Marka Act on 19 December 2008 and it was substantially amended by the Odelstingen Decision and the Penalty on 5 June 2009. It was almost unique. There was an active debate in the Evening Post conducted by deep ecological conservationists, respected scientists and nationally known sports profiles with Vegard Ulvang at the head. They did a lot of work – all the honor to them! The objective paragraph was changed from promoting outdoor life and facilitating natural experiences to ‘promoting and facilitating outdoors, natural experiences and sport’. Paragraph 5 was amended: the prohibition of construction measures was amended to exclude agricultural measures. That's good. There were many changes from Ot.prp. No 23 for 2008-2009 on the majority comments of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. It concerned agriculture, sport and outdoor life, ski slopes, catering sites, alpine facilities, the maintenance of established communities, relations with the Law on Nature Conservation, the Council of the Land and that the land was for all. There was a multi-use plug-in management. There were real changes, supported by the Center Party. The majority of the Committee today, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party The Greens wish to re-examine this position by re-entering a number of areas proposed by the County of Oslo and Akershu in a letter dated 17 November 2010. There were good reasons for taking out the areas now proposed again, because there is extensive human activity in the areas, for example. serving places and large sports facilities. The followers of the land law were against this type of activity within the geographical boundaries of the land law. It is therefore an dishonest game to come up with such proposals. One was against the kind of activity that one now wants to have into the law. So one will use something that was against and facilitate sports as an argument for e.g. that the Varingskollen should enter the scope of the law. The centre party is for protection. We are in favour of protection, which means taking out production on a basis of rare species and habitat types, but based on the basis of the Nature Diversity Act, which is a scientific basis. The Marka Act § 11 provides a legal framework for the protection of forests based on the so-called adventure forest principle. It's vision, and it destroys respect for protection among the people most. Therefore, the extension of the scope of the land law is not the right instrument. We have to think about long-term, multi-use, combined with protection and a scientific basis, the Center Party has full support, and that's our line. We are very grateful that the scientific environment in Norway is driving it forward and that today’s government is a member of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1387	In this country, we're protecting stabbers because they're old. We protect rocks because they're beautiful. We protect small pieces of iron because they come out of the earth and have been there since before the Reformation. These are things we like, but there is no scientific basis for the value of stabbing, piercing and iron bits from before the Reformation. This is visualization. This is a vision of values, but it's a vision that I and the Greens and the Greens are totally behind us. It's good to take care of values that are valuable to people because of experience, history and other things. Similarly, the most basic quality of outdoor life is the experience of beautiful nature. It's totally individual. It's pure vision. There are a lot of people from Hong Kong who don't understand how nice it is in Oslomarka, and why someone claims it's good to be there in the middle of the black winter. But we do it anyway. We agree that these are values. That's why I'm disappointed that the representative Lundtigen and the Centerpart's unilateral and dreadfully square drive towards what's one of the essence by protecting the area for open air purposes, which are not subspecies of bark beetles or bile ball tail flies on Bislingflaka. It's the fact that people experience nature and enjoy that nature, and that some of that nature we think is even finer than anything else. I would like us to move forward in the debate on outdoor life and nature protection at Stortinget without such a bulwark attempt to ‘natural science liberalisation’ of what is really much more about outdoor life, namely that we experience Norwegian nature as beautiful and valuable and take care of it because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1396	Norway has a lot of staff. We have a lot of stone fences. We have a lot of pieces of metal. We are getting more and more knowledge of metal bits with the new technology. What's a lot of it is the same thing as it's not rare. What's a little bit of it, it's rare. As a result, rare, typical stone fences that are rare, typical, metal pieces that are rare and typical, can be seen by scientific work as important to take care of. That's the principle that the Center Party follows in that context. There's a lot of old stuff that doesn't get that kind of protection. It's very important, because the government doesn't have resources and individuals don't have the resources to take care of everything that's old. A good part of the old must pass away, but not the old that is rare. The representative, Hansson, says he's disappointed with the Center Party, and that we're conducting a premeditated scientific argument, a one-sided and square drive, and that one gives the impression that a person's closest to the open-air objective is against. No, we're not. We were one of the driving forces behind ensuring that the Marka Act got the purpose paragraph that it now has. The Green Party was among the foremost against the purpose paragraph we now have, by «promoting and facilitating outdoor life, natural experience and sport». Promote and facilitate outdoor life, nature experience and sport – that means that you have to intervene in order for the many to experience the outdoor life that is so beautiful. If the Green Party had received its view, we would have had the purpose paragraph ‘Promoting outdoor life and facilitating natural experiences’. Sports had not been included. The activity that takes place in the open air in winter, with today's youth, requires a different preparation of fleas than it was in the past. That's today's opportunity. It was the Center Party for. This was the time when the Environment Party opposed because a wish that the outdoors should be reserved for the few. The centre party wants the open air to be reserved for the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1403	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1419	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1428	The proposal addresses an important issue, namely the safe management and storage of radioactive waste in Norway. It is therefore reassuring to see that the matter has been thoroughly examined in the committee, and I am pleased that there has been good cooperation and broad agreement on important principles in committee. At the same time, I would like to pay tribute to the proposer for promoting the matter, so that we can discuss an important issue here today. There are two important aspects to this matter: Who is responsible for nuclear waste? How should the waste be safely stored for a limited period until a permanent storage solution is in place? Today, Norway has used about 16 tonnes of radioactive reactor fuel, the majority of which stem from activity for decades to come. This fuel is stored at the facilities of the Research Foundation Institute of Energy Engineering in Halden and Kjeller. The annual growth rate of fuel used is now around 100 kg, and it is therefore important to distinguish between the problems of the unstable old fuel and the storage-resistant fuel produced today. Both on Kjeller and in Halden, there is a time-limited intermediate storage of radioactive waste and a permanent and safe solution for landfilling or other handling of the spent fuel must be found in the future. It is worrying that questions have been asked about whether this waste is stored safely. The fact that moisture and water have been found in the wells where the waste is stored is also described by the State's radiation protection system as serious. Therefore, it is also reassuring that the 2016 budget allocated 10 million. kr to examine the historical fuel and that this work is in progress. The Institute of Energy Technology also stresses that the findings do not present an increased risk of emissions of radioactivity at present. It is worth recalling that a significant effort has been made to provide an overview of the situation of the old waste and how it should be stored. On behalf of the government, in January 2015, DNV GL delivered a draft selection inquiry investigating the level of decommissioning that would be socially viable, the cost of a decommissioning project, and what should be assessed in a further planning. The work of the draft selection inquiry was then quality assured in two parts, one of which addressed the question of decommissioning the reactors, and the other of radioactive waste storage. It is worth noting that the Institute of Energy Technology supports the technical and safety assessments carried out in both the KVU and the quality assurance, and believes that they provide a good basis for the further process. For the government, it has been important to stress that although the State will help finance future degradation, storage and clean-up of nuclear waste, the Institute of Energy Technology remains responsible. There is a difference between paying the bill and taking responsibility alone. In the right we are therefore satisfied that the financial responsibility has been clarified, but that an overall committee also points out that the IFE has its responsibilities. I have noticed the impatience shown in the minority's comments and suggestions. As mentioned above, the State budget for 2016 granted 10 million. kr for examination of historical fuel used at Kjeller and Halden. I would also like to point out that the government in the 2017 budget proposes that an additional 28 million be allocated. kr for the treatment of spent fuel and for the investigation of new stock and landfill solution for low- and intermediate-active waste. These are the means by which the most urgent measures can be implemented and follow the recommendations of the quality assurance report on the storage of Norwegian radioactive waste. On the basis of this, I am therefore confident that the work on securing the waste is in a good process. I am pleased that a joint committee is now giving the government the opportunity to come back to Stortingen with both a proposal on how to organise the future work on radioactive waste storage and future decommissioning of reactors, and a waste management and financing plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1458	I want to start by thanking both the proposer and the case rapporteur. I think it is a great strength that the Committee gathers at least on a major direction through what the Storting will now adopt, where the government has to put forward a proposal on the organisation of work on the storage of Norwegian radioactive waste and on how to proceed. I think we should acknowledge that the problem we are experiencing today has – we should say – a lot of responsibility for it, it has come over there over time, and it is by no means satisfactory. So it is that to what is now presented – and as we know quite a bit about the costs and challenges associated with dealing with it in a good way – there is a need for some time, and one has to make a good process of doing so. I expect this to actually be done. But then there is the situation, when only a few weeks ago we were also informed that they had come into a situation where they had to permit, the financial problems and the failing markets were there. Clearly, it also enhances the intensity and seriousness of the relationship. I think it's important to stress that we have to be a little impatient, and I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that the government is impatient after getting the process further prepared to deal with it, that one is clear that one gets up an organisation of work that is satisfactory, and that one also gets to know the economic relationship. I am pleased that the Council of State has said that the State assumes co-responsibility in financing the handling, but it is quite essential for the Storting that one also knows how the financial opportunities are for the other party to deal with this major problem. It also has to be known soon, and the Council of State may be able to inform us a little about it. It's probably also that even if it's only produced 100 kg a year if the reactors start up again and operate normally, it will be difficult to follow the polluter-pays principle here, it will at least be demanding for the operator of the reactors, so there must be some answers that come to the Storting relatively soon, and that will ensure the situation for the IFE, which ensures the situation around the management of the waste, and that we are sure that one has a good process further. I'm excited about what the Council of State can now actually say based on the specific situation that is, and I'm going to challenge especially how quickly the Council of State sees it that one can clarify the organizational relationship and how it can be done. I am at least impatient on behalf of the Workers' Party after obtaining some conclusions on the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1469	A brief comment from the Christian People's Party: This case was one of those we had to postpone the proceedings of in the spring session. We fully support the intention of the proposal to ensure the safe and temporary storage of radioactive waste from the reactors at Kjeller and Halden. Radioactive waste is by no means something we should take lightly, although fortunately we have relatively small amounts of it here in the country. In the government budget for next year, the government has proposed to allocate $28 million. kr for the treatment of spent fuel and for the investigation of new stock and storage solutions for low- and intermediate-active waste, which is a long way from what IFE thinks they need. We believe that the majority of the committee has come up with a sensible decision, and we look forward to the government presenting a case of a sound solution in the long and short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1476	This case actually reflects a broad desire from Stortinget to make progress on the issues of both storage and financing of waste management in relation to radioactive waste. So really, there's little controversy in this setting. Nor do I feel the minority proposals that are very different from the majority's point of view, but they are perhaps a little more impatient, at least the Environment Party of the Greens' proposals. I think that's important too. I think it's a key point here, when an aggregate increase now decides this, that one is also able to ensure progress on this issue – that the Storting gets a proposal back pretty quickly on the organisation of work and progress in this work. The situation in which IFE is now and the permits that have also been implemented may also be illustrative of the need for something to happen here, for a person to progress, for a person to have a security of how to implement things. And then we're also going to discuss how this is going to be fully funded, because it's clear that it can be a demanding question. I also believe that all the parties in the Great Britain will be open to a sensible debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1483	I would first like to thank the proposer for submitting the proposal. I think this has been a very useful round in the committee. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for bringing up such a thorough discussion and process in the committee. Viewed in the light of the 10 million that we had negotiated last year, and that was then used this year, it is very important to have this case now, because now you have received the funds, so you have examined this old radioactive waste that is on Kjeller and in Halden. We've got the problems that here's the waste that you don't even get properly examined, because it's stuck. We're now on a race that's already started, because there's no doubt that we've known for a long time that this has to be done. Nevertheless, funds have never been allocated to it, and there has been a shift of responsibility on the IFE – a responsibility that IFE can never take. If added to them, the option of IFE is to lay down itself. They've got $70 million. NOK in the basic allocation, and there is nothing more to be taken off. So the responsibility is the state's, and it's the state that has to put in the big funds. Now we also have a deadline. We know the state. It's set at 10 million. kr for this year. The government has proposed $28 million. kr for next year. The left believes that it is too little in relation to the need. So we know that here you have waste that needs to be reprocessed in France, and we get information that here there is also a time bar, and then we have to use the means that are needed to reach the time limit that lies in the Areva reactor, well, in France. The alternative is still to do nothing, and you push a problem we know we have to do, and with huge expenses, in front of us, if we just keep doing what we did before. So I think we've now managed to break this, but there's still a lot of money to be done, and there's also a planning. One thing is to get it done in France, but then you have to have a solution for intermediate storage in Norway, and then you have to make the big decision about final storage, whether it's in Norway or if you can find an agreement with another country. On the left, we believe that it must be the environmental justification that ultimately decides which decisions to take. But that's what Terje Aasland said, that the situation can get a lot faster, that we suddenly face a situation where there's no economy and activity in the Halden reactor in particular, and then we get a decommissioning process that comes much faster than what you've done in the past. It's almost like getting an even bigger process, like what was suddenly done at Svalbard, when Great Norwegian had to put their operations to rest. But I think we've had a good round in the committee. I think we have well clarified the issues. I believe that with the funds allocated to this year, and what will be granted for next year, in many ways finally the state is taking its responsibility. But these means don't give any value unless it's completed with reprocessing, and that we get a buffer, and then a final solution finally. This is expensive, but the money has to be spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1494	This case is about two things in many ways. It is commendable that the Greens have promoted it. We had a very interesting tour with representatives from the breadth of the committee, from almost all parties in the committee, and we had a round in the IFE's two facilities. It gave us an impression that it's hard to reproduce on dry paper sheets, to say it carefully. There's something violent when you're behind a fence inside a tiny little shed and you see that here's the old nuclear waste that you can't get out of the hole where it's stored – and much less you know how to handle it on the way to final storage, which means 10,000 years of storage. Just to point to the two sides here that I think is important: one is: here we have an acute problem, which we have to deal with. The second is, how on earth could we end up in this situation? On the acute problem side, I think it is right to nuance what the rapporteur said. The rapporteur says that the majority, i.e. the government parties and the supporting parties, are satisfied that the financial responsibility has been clarified. But seriously, I don't see it in your mind that the financial responsibility is perfectly clear. I see it your way that the state has said, "We're going to take responsibility." But it's not like IFE can now, in the situation they're in, enter into negotiations with other institutions and other institutions on a merger and have a clear clue as to what kind of financial responsibility it is the state has, and what kind of clear responsibility it is that they're linked to the management of nuclear waste. So I think it's a little bit of a twist of reality. It is clear that if the Minister of Industry could come and say something else here, and point out quite clearly how this should be, it would help, but they are pleased that the Minister of Industry has taken responsibility and said that the State takes responsibility. Then we will see when the final decisions come and the final agreements will be snorted about how waste management and possible decommissioning will happen, how this will be. Only then do we know how that division of responsibilities is going to be. I feel that this is something that is urgent. There's more to it than that. It is urgent to make a decision on what to do with the waste that exists, and what kind of solutions you choose, and it is urgent with what we have presented in proposal No. 2, to put in place a safe solution for caching. There is an urgent need to put in place what we consider to be a proper organisation, that is to say, to have a government body responsible for the safe management of radioactive waste. Only then will you get a final clarification of the further responsibility for IFE, as I see it. But it is good – just as the rapporteur said, and the others have said – that we now agree that we are telling the government that it is just making a proposal. I sincerely hope – and here I hope that the Council of State can clarify – that this is something she intends to achieve during the current growing-up period. It will be very bad if there will be confusion about the organisation and the further progress of this after the election to next year. I just know how such processes often tend to start up again in terms of time, and it's a time we actually don't have in this case. The other side of this is the crazy thing about us being in a situation where 14.5 billion. kr is as estimated that the total solution costs. IFE has ever gone with 14.5 billion. kr in surplus — accumulated — over the years? I don't know, but it just shows something about how the whole nuclear industry survives only under one condition: that you relax all responsibility on the state and socialize the entire responsibility for everything you're doing on the state. It's just noticing what the Technical Weekleaf suggested in the case, that there's a decline in the energy industry – in the oil industry and the nuclear industry. Renewable energy competitions out nuclear power so it sings. It won't be right to bet on nuclear power in the future, and then it's up to me to bet on a conversion in Halden, instead of letting people go on leave in uncertain terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1507	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals SV has in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1512	That's a very good idea, President! I address both the proposal on which we stand alone and the proposal on which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1517	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1523	Yes, this is a proposal that has been made because of impatience, and people at Kjeller are impatient. They are impatient that there is stored huge waste in the middle of the city they live in, and there is reason to be impatient about a situation that has been going on for many decades, where the Norwegian State has been responsible for implementing a project that produces waste that is lethal for many, many thousand years, and then they have put that waste into a hole in the ground and tried to forget that it is there. For the sake of order, a situation has also been created where no one is fully aware of who is responsible for this waste, and the institution that produces it is a foundation with a weak economy and no clear mandate to take responsibility for the waste, and that foundation can cease to exist for various reasons, and then only the ground remains. So it's good that this has led to the Council of State making it clear that you want to take responsibility, and then it remains to be impatient enough for us to do the things that have to be done. That is why we have put forward three proposals. One is to use sufficient resources in the State budget to enable the IFE to do what they want, namely to investigate what can be done to find out both about final storage and about possible decommissioning. They've asked for $60 million. kr, they've got 28 million. kr, and it's unclear to us to what extent it's actually sufficient for the IFE to get started doing the things that they think are crucial. It might be good if the Council of State is already able to say something clearer about the relationship between the demand for $60 million. kr and the 28 million. kr that has arrived. Then we have asked for the establishment of a government body responsible for the management of the waste, and this is because the responsibility for this waste is unclear until now, and that the producer of the waste is not organised in such a way that the Norwegian society can be absolutely sure that they can take that responsibility. The economy to take that they don't have at all. As the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was in on, we are talking here about the amounts of imagination that must be available to deal with this in total. We're going to get back to how in the world we're going to deal with it, but we're probably going to have to do that somehow. The third proposal we have made is that we ask the government to assess whether it is necessary to apply temporary emergency measures to Kjeller in order to prevent the risk of leakage in a waste storage warehouse that is simply not fully controlled because things are corroded and in a slightly unclear state. It is a question that I also hope the Council of State can comment on, because for the quite large population living near this waste, it is a little pleasant to know that you have so dangerous waste stored as close as everyone agrees that it is not sustainable in the long term, and as there are some things that indicate that it is not good in the short term either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1534	This is an important matter, and it is good that it is lifted in Stortinget. For the safe handling of our reactors and our radioactive waste is a prerequisite for the nuclear activity in Norway. The challenges of the fuel used have been known since the late 1990s, without any concrete solutions to the problem. But we have therefore taken action from this government to ensure lasting solutions to the waste problem. The exact state of the radioactive waste is now being surveyed by the Institute of Energy Technology, IFE, which owns and operates the reactors. In addition, the State radiation protection system as the supervisory authority follows the situation closely. Their assessment is that it is appropriate to maintain the operation of the reactors. In April, I received two quality assurance reports dealing with waste management and decommissioning and demolition of the nuclear reactors. It is good professional reports that make concrete recommendations that we can work on further. The polluter-pays principle is general and is also highlighted in the reports. IFE is the polluter and is therefore responsible for the management of the waste and for the clean-up. But then we know that the costs of cleaning up Kjeller and Halden are so high that IFE cannot finance this alone. There is also a point that the generations that have benefited from the research that has been carried out must also take responsibility for the clean-up and not leave this problem to future generations. One example of this is the multi-phase technology, which has saved the oil industry for large investments and has given large tax revenues to Norway. Now we have to use some of these revenues to clean up. In the revised national budget 2016 and in the state budget for 2017, we are following up the reports on three measures that we believe are urgent, with a total of 33 million. kr: Firstly, we are taking the necessary steps to ensure access to any future reprocessing, i.e. treatment of the non-storage used fuel in France. Secondly, we are looking at the existence of alternative treatments for reprocessing. Thirdly, we have commissioned State Building to investigate a new combined warehouse and landfill for low- and medium-radioactive waste. In addition, in the 2017 state budget, we recommend that the State assume a co-financing responsibility for the future dismantling of the two Norwegian nuclear reactors and the management of national nuclear waste. As I have said, it is necessary to ensure safe handling and progress in these processes. Then IFE must also contribute to the clean-up in a practical and economic way. They must have the right incentives for efficient operation and take responsibility for the waste they generate. Given the limited economic situation of the IFE, we in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries are in close dialogue with IFE to find solutions to the IFE's contribution, and the government is to contribute financial resources to ensure the safe and safe management of the waste and not least the necessary progress. This is a complex and difficult matter. In-depth preparation is required to make good decisions. For example, the state of the historical fuel and the storage conditions are critical for the type of temporary storage solution chosen. Therefore, it is also premature to conclude whether stocks can still be suitable and what can be done with the fuel. IFE studies on these conditions have not been completed and will not be completed until the earliest in the next year, in 2017. Therefore, it is too early to choose a new caching solution now. I am concerned about good progress in the matter, but the area is therefore demanding, and we need to ensure that we have sufficient knowledge before we take the next steps in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1564	It's going to be line change. The President perceived that the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he mentioned, which are not pressured into the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1571	The Committee, through its work on setting up the Committee, has been concerned with the unhindered and safe organisation of those to follow up on safe handling, and there has been a central discussion. There is even a proposal from a minority that something should be in place from 1 January 2017. I can understand that such a specific time indication can be demanding. But can the Council of State suggest when such an independent body from those who produce the waste can be in place, and how to get a process on it? I believe that Stortinget is so impatient that one could have been tempted to vote for 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1576	I understand the impatience, and so do we. But I ask for an understanding that we are now working continuously on this matter. It's important, but it's also difficult. We don't have much experience in such matters, and we need to have a knowledge base before we make safe decisions. Having one fixed date, I want to be very careful with it, simply because it requires both legal and economic clarifications, a contractual relationship with IFE is required, and we have to stick to the principle that IFE is responsible. But the state has therefore chosen to take co-responsibility, and I have explained why I believe that it has been politically and morally right. We're going to work now, we've got some clear recommendations, we're looking at how other countries do this, and we're not going to spend unnecessary time. The representatives were earlier aware that it did not have to go into a new accumulation period. I don't have that as a goal, on the contrary, I have the goal of working as quickly as possible with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1583	I thank you for your answer. I interpret it to that point that the organisation is then in place during the first half of 2017, and I hope that it will actually be implemented. For the financing and funding responsibilities associated with the clearing-up: the majority of the committee, i.e. the State Council's own party, now writes that financial responsibility is thus clarified by the government announced in July of the current year that they would be involved and assume co-responsibility. Does the Council of State see in any way that the IFE, which is the basis for the waste, can contribute to financing something of importance in terms of the management of this waste in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1590	I stick to the legal principle that the polluter pays, and that the IFE has a responsibility. It is important that they are held accountable. But we wanted to take a joint responsibility and have been clear that we should take that responsibility. We have to work with IFE on this. The IFE now has significant problems with some business lines. In other areas, it's going very well. Last year they had a significant surplus, it was due to some pension changes, but it is clear that we have to make the IFE responsible, and then we have to come back to how this should be organised. I believe that there is reason to trust the state when the state says we should take joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1597	I don't think there's any doubt that it's the state that has to take the big costs. IFE will never be able to do that in any way. But the question is, when? Now we are in the process, and the Council of State mentioned the need for reprocessing or, where appropriate, other solutions. But if you're going to have a reprocessing -- I thought that was what was necessary, but I'm not going to say that -- there's a time window in France because when this can happen. Other clarifications, if any, must be in advance. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: can she confirm that we are now at a stage where this is followed up with a clear timeframe to get that clarification in terms of the reprocessing and implementation of that project before proceeding to the new intermediate storage in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1602	I can confirm that. That is why it was important to have a budget revised so that we now participate in this race in France. That is why we have also proposed appropriations for next year. What we've done is go through what we think is the most important thing that we can prioritise, and then a lot of this preliminary estimate, and that's uncertainty because we have no experience at all in this area. It's a 14-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. NOK over some years, so it is
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1607	It is important to distinguish dirt from cinnamon here, because the large amounts come when choosing the final storage solution – the long-term storage solution. It's kind of strange to talk about a final storage solution, because the reality is that we're talking about perspectives between 10,000 and 50,000 years, and it's 50,000 years since man got his cognitive properties. That means that it's impossible to imagine how far forward this is, and it's quite obvious that this goes far beyond normal comprehension. First of all, it's about what we're going to do to get a kind of buffer solution, and then my question is very simple: The fact that the government and the government are now choosing to propose $28 million. kr insteadfor 60 mill. kr, as IFE has submitted to the Committee, does it risk delaying the process towards intermediate storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1612	The time horizon that the representative draws up, does well for all governments before he has just pushed the problem and hoped that it would pass by itself. Of course it doesn't. We are now running a race where we believe that we should be able to keep progress. We are clear that these are uncertain estimates. We have ongoing dialogue with IFE – this week at the latest – and we need to have a dialogue with them on what they need and what we need to grant. So we have selected the most important points. The last IFE estimates came as late as August – that is the 60 million. I'll talk about it. We've added 28 million. NOK, because we think that's what we have the basis for now. So we have to get back to the Storing if this changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1618	President, thank you for reminding me that I forgot to address the two solutions proposed by the Greens. One is what I was into, increasing the appropriations for the requested by 60 million. kr. The second was what I also mentioned in passing, namely our proposal to ask the government to consider temporary emergency measures to ensure nuclear waste. I would like to address this to the Council of State. In a situation where there is cause for concern about the state of this waste, is the government satisfied with the situation we have for the waste at Kjeller now? Or will the government notify special measures to make the Kjeller population safe that this waste, as long as it is there, is absolutely safe and safe to store?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1623	I have a great deal of understanding of the insecurity and concern of the people of Kjeller. But I also believe that we have a great responsibility in this room not to increase that concern. It is that we have the professional authority to decide whether emergency measures are necessary. The professional authority, the State Radiation Protection Agency, believes that this is not necessary, and I am dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1628	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1646	The Norwegian oil adventure started in 1969. Based on the demand for local content in interaction with international actors, a world-leading supplier industry developed, built on centuries of Norwegian maritime competence. The oil history is not without victims and tragedies, we were reminded of it no later than in May of the year, but Norwegian oil history has also given us an economic prosperity few to see in 1969. Until 2007, there were two major players on the Norwegian base: Statoil and Hydro. The merger dramatically changed the structure of the Norwegian base, and one company became very dominant. There were many who warned against this merger, where the need to create an international player weighed heavier than competition on Norwegian pedestal. It also expressed its own concern about what this would mean for competition and the conditions of the supplier industry. The theme of this interpellation is the competitive situation on a Norwegian base, and it is unnecessary for me to spend time telling a Council of State from the Right about the benefits of healthy competition. When I'm in the middle of boundaries, there's a climate perspective here, too. We've been producing oil for 45 years, and through political climate and environmental requirements, we've been pushing greener solutions than there are many other places in the world. That's very good. Before I go further, it is important for me to stress that Statoil has been a success story for Norway and is also going to be a locomotive on Norwegian pedestal in the future. There are competent people working in Statoil, and they're professional operators. There is no disagreement that the dramatic fall in the oil price must cut costs. The question we have to ask ourselves is how and how costs are cut. In the merger of Statoil and Hydro, an overall committee stated: ‘The Committee will stress the importance of the authorities monitoring developments in the supplier industry and the relationship between the merged company and the supplier industry during the coming period. The Committee therefore assumes that the Department is in constant dialogue with the supplier industry on developments in these areas and that the Department reports appropriately on the evolution of the situation of the supplier industry.» The review carried out by the government in 2009 came at a time that was very marked by the fact that there were rise times. I believe that the time is ripe for a new review of the competition situation on a Norwegian base – not because I do not see that we need to change, not because I believe the level of activity should be kept artificially high, on the contrary, but because I want to facilitate that we also have a world-leading supplier industry that is now in the future. We then depend on the competence of the companies not to disappear, and that the companies also do not disappear by being squandered too hard by a dominant player at the bottom of an economic turnaround. By granting privileges in the 1970s and 1980s, through the notification of ownership and in comments on the merger between Statoil and Hydro, Statoil has been entrusted with greater social responsibility than other operators on the Norwegian base. Social responsibility has been linked to Statoil, which is a dominant operator, having a responsibility in addition to purely commercial responsibility. It is expected that Statoil will take responsibility for developing industry skills, investing in R & D, but also ensure that the Norwegian supplier industry continues to develop and strengthen its position. I would like to thank the Council of State for asking the Competition Authority to carry out a preliminary review of the competitive situation on a Norwegian base. In the Competition Authority report, it was claimed that a large purchasing power is positive for the market. I wonder a little bit about this conclusion, because the picture is much more complicated than what the Competition Authority describes, which today's headline in today's Business Life from Statoil's Director himself supports. This is not only a question of light on competition, it is also a question of competition policy. We're talking about Norway's second largest company, which stands for 70 pst. by the activity of what is our greatest and most profitable industry. This is the actor who has defined many requirements and specifications that in some cases exceed international standards and whose suppliers have designed their ships, riggings and products. In many ways, Statoil controls the level of activity on Norwegian pedestal, both through its own direct decisions, indirectly through its licence shares, and as a result of other operators looking at the behaviour of the largest operator before acting themselves. The question I am asking myself is whether the strong position and the lack of competition mean that the economic fluctuations are now greater than what is needed. There is a question that should be relevant in this room, because it is also in this room that we adopt the crisis packages of the regions that have been most hit by the reduced activity. A number of suppliers now report challenges in the dialogue with a dominant operator, which may shift their own needs to cut costs to their subcontractors. I hear the same stories from all parts of the supplier industry. To put it a little to the top, it's the silent majority we're talking about, and it makes me think the time is overdue for a more thorough review than the bird's-eye view that the Competition Authority included in its report. The overall perspective is whether we have a competitive structure that makes Norwegian base appear attractive to oil companies, whether it's new small or whether it's the big international ones like BP, Shell and ExxonMobil. History has shown that the decisions made by politicians in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s on a framework that developed the interaction have given ground to the development of innovative solutions for the future. Now, when we look at the base in 2016, we have to be able to ask the question: do we have a licensing structure that increases competition? Are the rights between licensees enough and right competition? And is the location of ownership combined with the regulatory role the right one for competition? The Competition Director wrote a newspaper post on the same day as they delivered the report to the Department. There he writes that it is positive that Statoil uses its purchasing power. I think we're going to stop a little bit by the expression 'use', because as I've listened to the situation between the dominant actor and the supplier industry, I think it's just where the dog is buried. I think everyone agrees that Statoil should use its purchasing power. This creates competition among suppliers leading to more and better innovation, better products and lower-price conversion. What we're discussing today is whether it's positive that Statoil, as the competition director says, exploits its dominant position created by historical privileges given in this room, to squander suppliers through the use of what many experience as unfine methods, to a point where many struggle to survive. Many suppliers experience it almost as an abuse of purchasing power and experience little respect for concluded contracts and contracts. It's the interaction that's done us good, and now there's evidence that Statoil is making the supplier industry bad. I'll say it like this: Norway is not served by a situation where we get King Solomon and Jørgen Hatter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1694	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important and topical debate. We all know that there are very, very demanding times for both companies and employees who live directly or indirectly in the oil and gas industry. We are now in a situation where absolutely all actors must cut costs in order to become more competitive. In such a situation, it is also reasonable that all contribute and that the burden be distributed among the actors. In my meetings with the supplier industry, several people have mentioned that they see some oil companies as demanding and, in part, unfair operators. They believe that the necessary cost cut is too much to be passed on to the supplier industry, and it is perceived that the dominant position is being exploited. Today's Business Today we can read that Statoil admits that the criticism has been justified, and they have taken action. I see this as a necessary recognition, and it is important that we get better communication between the actors in a pressed sector. It is also important that this leads to changes that provide a better distribution of the necessary cost cuts facing the industry. And then there's a clear interdependence between the oil companies and the supplier industry. It's on good days, it's not least on difficult days. The representative, Mr Heimdal, questions the functioning of the market in its interpellation and whether the Council of State will initiate a review of the conditions of competition of the supplier industry. In the light of both enquiries from the supplier industry and this interpellation, I asked the Competition Authority this summer to provide an overall description of the competitive conditions in the petroleum industry, including the supplier industry. I also asked the supervision to assess whether and, where appropriate, how competition policy instruments, in particular the enforcement of the Competition Act, can be used to counteract any harmful effects resulting from the exploitation of purchasing power. The Competition Surveillance Authority’s investigation ‘Petroleum industry and purchasing power’ was published at the beginning of October of this year. The assessment of purchasing power and potential instruments by the Authority is general and not linked to any individual companies in the petroleum industry. According to the Competition Surveillance Authority’s assessment, the Competition Act has sufficient instruments that can be used to counteract any adverse effects resulting from the use of purchasing power. The review of case-law by the Competition Authority also shows that there are few cases of interference with purchasing power. In the cases that exist, the operators have the power to sell, so that damage can occur to the consumer in the form of, among other things. higher prices. Although the Competition Authority’s assessment shows that the purchasing power is generally good for competition, strong purchasing power can be perceived as unreasonable and demanding for companies that experience it in negotiations. Whether large companies make unreasonable claims in the context of contract negotiations is a matter of business practices. However, it is the actors themselves who negotiate contracts and who have to take responsibility in that context. Therefore, it is demanding to use policy instruments to regulate this. The Competition Act, for which I am responsible, does not regulate how contract negotiations are to be conducted. However, the outcome of such negotiations may be contrary to the Competition Act. Companies that believe that they are being pressured in a way that is contrary to the Competition Act and, for example: However, its prohibition of abuse of a dominant position should alert or contact the Competition Authority. The supervision may then make a concrete and thorough assessment of the prohibition provisions of the Competition Act and, where appropriate, investigate the case. Therefore, on a general basis, I encourage actors who experience procedures such as a breach of the Competition Act to contact the Competition Authority. The interpellant addresses the question of whether the effect of the merger between Statoil and Hydro has been investigated in 2007. The management of the country's ownership of Statoil is the responsibility of the OED. The same applies to the management of petroleum resources. Therefore, whether it is appropriate to review the effect of the merger now 10 years later is a matter for the Minister of Oil and Energy to decide. However, I would like to say that it is obvious that the state's principles of ownership management and the country's clear expectations of companies where the state is on the ownership side apply. Let me highlight in particular principle 10 – companies will work specifically to meet their social responsibilities. Let me also highlight the country's clear expectations that state-owned companies should be ethically sound. The petroleum industry and the supplier industry are in a very demanding situation, but will continue to be an important engine in the Norwegian economy for many years to come. Therefore, the government has contributed, and will continue to contribute, with measures to support the transformation of the petroleum industry and the supply industry. The change that has occurred in the petroleum industry in the last few years shows that although conversion is necessary, it is also painful. Those affected are employees and owners of companies, who have invested and succeeded in a tough competition to get deliveries to the oil companies' activities on both Norwegian and international bases. Many of these now have to look after new assignments. Many are able to change business models and find new markets, and not least it is gratifying that very many Norwegian companies have now improved their competitiveness and have contracts in new fields, including: at Johan Sverdrup. It is important to remember that the oil and gas resources on the Norwegian base belong to the Norwegian people. Both the authorities and the companies have a responsibility to ensure the proper management of the resources. Good resource management involves efficient use of resources that maximises revenue, while respecting health, environment and safety considerations. I would also like to remind you that the management of the petroleum sector is based on a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the authorities and industry. In order to achieve good resource management, it is important that companies, within the framework set by the authorities, have financial incentives to maximise the value of resources. The government supports the transition that many are currently working through. We follow the situation closely, and we take action when we think it is necessary. In order for the switchover to be successful, we need to have a functioning market on the base and in the supplier industry. This is the responsibility of the authorities, but it is also the responsibility of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1731	I am therefore pleased that Statoil has announced that they are taking action to improve the competitive situation. I am concerned that these measures are being implemented and that they lead to change. It is important for Norwegian companies to be safe and sound through the demanding phase we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1735	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and meaningful article. I am pleased that the Council of State and the undersigned have the same experience, that in meeting the supplier industry we receive feedback that it is demanding and that unreasonable demands are being made. In today's Business today – which was also the subject of the Council of State – the Director of the University of Statoil himself says that the criticism raised against Statoil from the subcontractors was not unjustified. It is a recognition that there has been an undue pressure on subcontractors, and that is only two weeks after the Competition Authority – I would say – acquits Statoil because they have a line of argument based on strong purchasing power that is certainly the right competition law, but competition policy much, much more demanding. That is why I am also pleased that the Council of State in its article emphasises both principle No. 10 for good ownership and social responsibility that goes out of it. In the review we had in 2009, which the government made as a follow-up to the merger, it is a quote that I liked in 2009 and which I also want to make in this round, and it says: ‘The actors pointed out that the companies were in many respects like ‘dog and cat’, if Statoil took a stand then Hydro took the opposite. These discussions led in many respects to the fact that different aspects of exploration, development and operation were well lit and that both other rightholders and authorities could benefit from the discussion. Most believe that these discussions have contributed to progress and increased value creation in industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1746	The ‘dog and cat’ phenomena were those that had contributed to progress and created more values in the industry before the merger in 2007. It's worth noting, and then the question is how we're now connecting – in 2016, 2017 and forward – a system that can give some dogs and cats that can further develop this system, and that's in the context that I think time has come for a greater independent review to see if we've addressed ourselves properly with the challenges and prospects facing this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1749	It is tempting to begin with the recognition that I am for dogs, at least! That being said, the responsibility of the oil and energy ministers is, as I said, the follow-up to the oil and petroleum resources, so that questions related to it need to be addressed there. I think we should also remind ourselves that Statoil is not a big company in the world, but it's a big company in the Norwegian context, which has given us incredible values, and which does a very important job every day. The Competition Authority is then a professionally independent body. They have given their professional judgment, but they are also clear that this is an overall assessment. They need specific issues if they are to go in and make thorough assessments. It's that someone feels offended, not necessarily means that they are. It requires a thorough review, and it has therefore not been possible to address this matter. So I think we're going to take Statoil to the word in what they're now expressing through their meetings with the supplier industry. It is important here that everyone in this industry has good dialogue. It's a mutual addiction, and having communication, agreeing to change the rules, is really great. It is important that the industry itself contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1758	I want to start by thanking the representative, Mr Hemdal, for addressing this issue. It is a very important issue, and it is a problem that has become very – let's say – urgent for those of us who get the enquiries that the Minister of Industry also refers to, from the supplier industry, where the negative effects of the merger that were made emerge. At least it is produced as a result of that merger. There were no warnings when the merger was made. This was discussed in Stortinget, it should be said, but it should also be said that the merger was carried out and reached unanimous agreement in Stortinget. But we knew about this, and there were reviews of the situation. As the representative Hemdal says, it also happened in an upswing. Then there have been structurings and aggregations on the supplier's side, and we also have to include that in this picture. A number of positive developments have also been achieved by improving the foothold of the supplier industry in an export market and have come out and grown quite so strongly in the post-merger period. So this isn't whole-dried. We have also got several actors that are actually based on Norwegian base. The volume is different between these actors and Statoil than between Statoil and Hydro. It's also important that we bring with us. When the crab is empty, the horses are bitten, as it is said – and we now see, in recession, that it is particularly complained that Statoil uses its large position on the pedestal to push actors unfairly. It's negative. I think that's what all the politicians who've heard those stories have brought up with Statoil, and we're getting reassuring messages from Statoil, most recently in the paper today. But it's important for me to say that Statoil's handling of these things is absolutely crucial for how we think about petroleum policy in the future. Statoil says they recognize responsibility. I think it's a good start. But it also has to be displayed. I find it problematic when we hear details about how Statoil acts on the base in contract negotiations, when they interrupt contracts, and when we also know that the actors who come to us and we hear about do not dare to take this up in public, because they are afraid of what penalties they will be subjected to from Statoil. This means that we should have a critical look at how Statoil manages the position they have on the Norwegian base. The goal of Norwegian oil policy is not to build Statoil; the goal of Norwegian oil policy is to build the country. We're going to build an industry, the revenues from this industry and from this business are going to benefit the whole country, and we're going to have good environmental considerations along the way. There are still these considerations that govern our policy, and in future concession policy, emphasis needs to be placed on attracting actors who are able to handle larger and smaller developments on the base. We still have to have as a policy to increase the diversity of the socket, and we have to succeed in this. We cannot live with the fact that we have a big actor who, as the representative Hemdal says, has been given these privileges from us as politicians, and that then there can be suspicion that they abuse their position on the pedestal and thus create a worse industrial development in Norway than we would otherwise have. We can't have it that way. We also need to make sure that there is greater diversity on the base. If we don't succeed by continuing the policy we have, turning a little bit here and turning a little bit there, we actually have to think more dramatic instruments. In the choice between what is good for Statoil and what is good for the country, there must never be any doubt about what Norwegian politicians choose: the country comes first. I therefore fully agree with the interpellant that a new review should be made of the situation of the Norwegian supplier industry in the new player image and in the current economic situation, in order to draw lessons from this that can be used in the formulation of future policies, both in terms of concession awards, and in terms of how we manage the business on Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1777	First, I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for the initiative and for a good debate that has gone through the summer and beyond the autumn. The competition situation on the Norwegian base, and in particular the strength conditions on the operator’s side, has been a repetition in Stortinget. In particular, competition policy challenges were highlighted in the merger between Statoil and Hydro in 2007 and – as mentioned here – in the context of the 2011 petroleum notification. The right then believed, and still believes, that there is a need to ensure a good and sustainable competitive situation on Norwegian soil. We already warned in connection with the merger that the creation of such a dominant company on a Norwegian base would create a challenging competitive situation for the supplier industry. Simply put, Statoil needs to live in a healthy competitive environment. Our supplier industry also needs to live in a healthy competitive environment. It is that a strong and dominant actor in itself is not harmful. This also confirms the Competition Authority's report that came a few weeks ago. Strong purchasing power could contribute to increased competition among suppliers. This can in the next instance provide better products at a lower price. At the same time, it has special responsibility for dominant actors. So it doesn't help that the dominant player in the market acts as good or as bad as the other players. A dominant player must always be better for the market to function. In the petroleum sector, this responsibility will mean that the dominant player not only has his own best interests in mind when making his decisions and promoting his demands. This responsibility also requires the company to take into account the sustainability of suppliers in the longer term. Statoil has since its establishment been granted privileges and benefits to maintain the company's role as a locomotive on Norwegian base, and it has been an important locomotive. The aim was to ensure that the rent fell to the community, that competence was built for the good management of our oil and gas resources, and that we would create industrial ring-effects here at home. Several of the examples of Statoil's use of power that has emerged in the media may be within the framework of the Competition Act, but unfortunately we know little about that. These kinds of cases are rarely tried in court and so to speak never by the Competition Authority. We are told that this is because the suppliers are afraid to bring their largest customer into court. At the same time, the Competition Authority has little capacity to deal with cases of abuse of a dominant position. Today's Business Today we see that Statoil is handling the criticism they have received, by having a conversation with the supplier industry. We also see something that might remind us of a confession that they took advantage of their dominant position on a Norwegian base through undue pressure on the suppliers. That's good. It's good that Statoil cleans up. At the same time, this shows the need for political action to ensure that the competitive situation improves. One example of a more difficult competitive situation is that three years ago, Statoil, at ONS, said that the most important step we are taking on a Norwegian base now is standardisation. In order to reduce costs and to achieve conversion, standardisation is the most important approach we take. It sounds reasonable, but we also need to be aware that such a dominant player as Statoil in a standardisation program that says we're going to do things like that there and there, it's going to be as equal as possible to reduce costs, and can also slow down innovation in a field as important as the Norwegian supplier industry, which really promises to be what we're good at and good at. Another act that has been lifted in the past is to separate the ownership role and the regulatory role from the state. This is in line with the OECD's own principles of state ownership. The OECD states that there must be a clear distinction between the ownership function of the State and other State functions that may affect the conditions of State-owned companies, in particular for the purpose of market regulation. I think it should be considered as a step to strengthen the competitive situation on Norwegian soil if we may have to move ownership from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, a department that now has everything to do with this sector. We think maybe we can have healthier ownership management if we move it to the Ministry of Food and that makes a clear distinction between the two environments. The competitive situation is important in the interests of the supplier industry, it is important for the purposes of the basic interest rate, the revenue to be generated by this activity by the Kingdom of Norway. I fully agree with Mr Henriksen's conclusion on why we have this large sector, and what considerations should ultimately count.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1800	Let me also start by thanking the interpellant for starting an important debate. In the time we are now living, with a pressurised business in many areas, I am pleased that competition policy issues are also being discussed in this Chamber. The falling oil price from 2014 has created a very demanding situation for the maritime industry. The situation is now so that every six offshore ships are in circulation, and in the year to come, it is unfortunately not impossible that we will see even more ships in passivity. A number of lay-offs have been carried out, and the industry fears that further jobs may be lost, particularly in the south and west. So the industry is facing a challenging competitive situation that we politicians must take seriously. The merger between Statoil and Hydro was carried out in 2007, bringing together Hydro’s petroleum activities with direct transfers to Statoil as the acquiring company. As the interpellant pointed out, this led to the Norwegian base having a dominant player there close to 80 pst. production was under their control. Looking back at the comments made in the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on this issue in 2007, there are more concerns from the four non-socialist parties in Stortinget on the impact of this merger – although we also voted in favour. I have a great deal of understanding that at the time it was asked what competition and what diversity this would lead to on Norwegian pedestal. Now, nine years later, at least we're sitting partly with a fascination. Statoil has very large market power, and the company is still undoubtedly the dominant player. Statoil controls the level of activity both through its own direct decisions, indirectly through its licence shares and because other operators on its Norwegian base often look to the largest player before acting. The effects of this have created major challenges for the supplier industry. Several industrial actors also experience that Statoil is cutting down on activity and pushing costs so strongly that it could cause a significant deterioration in the Norwegian supplier industry and the world-leading competence of the supply industry in Norway. Industry was responsible for over 126 billion in value. and employed around 126 000 people in Norway in 2013. Unfortunately, there are fewer people today. The supplier sector has an important position in the Norwegian maritime cluster and forms an important part of the complete maritime value chain. In order to maintain this maritime competence, it is necessary to work to ensure that several of the links in the value chain have the best possible conditions of competition, especially in times of stress. The spread of power and a variety of actors are important. Real competition on the base is essential to promote innovation and new technological solutions. Numerous and strong operators are created through increased competition and improved market balance. This government has made it clear that it will be important to contribute to enabling the supplier industry to grow and further develop in order to ensure its leading position in an international market. Don't get me wrong: Statoil is and has been a good and important company, but Norwegian base should be attractive to more than one actor. This summer, the Competition Authority was given a mandate to look at the situation. The conclusion was that they were not as concerned as parts of the industry, and that Statoil has not used its position illegally. It's not particularly surprising. Competition supervision, in line with other supervision, agents, entities and denominators, shall not initially have top competence to understand or interpret policies. First of all, they must be able to legislate. There is a very clear dividing line, and this is about precisely politics, not legal disputes and ambiguities. What will be the political grips, if any? In 2007, in the comments of the four non-socialist parties, it was proposed to reduce the operatorship of producing fields as part of the government’s requirement. One can also discuss, as the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen did, whether it is more appropriate for the government ownership of Statoil to be lifted by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in view of its role-sharing, and that the Ministry of Oil and Energy remain responsible for the regulation of the company’s resources. I'm not quite sure that a government council from my party that runs that department will be 100 pst. Agreed. But I'm in doubt whether it's a good idea that the goat, the oat bag, the shepherd and the farmer are sitting around the same table in every context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1828	The supplier industry grew up on the shoulders of centuries of Norwegian shipping tradition. Today, rigging and soupware are the part of the oil industry that may be heavier. Much of the reason for this is that it has been contracted too much and taken up too much debt. No one is more painfully aware of it than the shipowners who are now spending all their time negotiating with banks and bondholders. In More and Romesdal we have one of the world's foremost maritime clusters. World-leading technology and entrepreneurial spirit have created great values both locally and nationally. We are proud of this. But today there are many who are struggling, altogether there are 14 rigs and 107 offshore ships in circulation along our coast, and the debt weighs too many. A modern vessel is a major investment. It has to be a combination of equity and borrowed money. And what do you borrow to? A ship is no more valuable than the potential performance of a creditor. You borrow from the contract you have. The contracts then become one's principal assets. Many Norwegian shipowners have invested in new ships that meet the customer’s requirements precisely with security in the contract. This means that predictability of contracts and agreements becomes alpha and omega for these companies. There are many of these who today feel that this trust that lies in concluded agreements is gone. In an article in Today's Business 17 June this year, the head of the Bergen Rederi Association, lawyer Øystein Meland, called the renegotiations of contracts for regular highway robbery. In the article, Meland has the following quotation: ‘– Statoil requires renegotiated contracts where suppliers have invested in ships, rigs, special equipment and infrastructure to operate a Statoil contract, based on agreed volumes and margins and where the contract goes over five to eight years at agreed prices. The same service will be provided at a significantly lower price than that provided for in the contract. A fundamental principle in business is the holding of contracts. This blows Statoil in, and answers, ‘If you don’t like it, it’s just to sue us’ – implicitly, ‘if you dare’, says Meland.’ It's perfectly legitimate to want to renegotiate agreements, but what kind of negotiating situation do you actually have when negotiating with your only customer? When you know that not wanting to negotiate can mean getting in the back row of new contracts? Would you like to take the chance of going to court if the consequences are that you go bankrupt while the case is going on? Statoil has a dominant position because the Norwegian state has given historic privileges. This is accompanied by a social responsibility and a expectation not to exploit its position in a way that damages the industry. The signals indicate that Statoil is doing just that today, and that is why we need a thorough review of the sector. In More and Romesdal, we are proud of our maritime traditions and, as I said, have a world-leading maritime cluster. We know what this means and can mean in the future. Many of the actors have taken on too much debt and built too many ships, no one denies it. But it will be a disaster for the region and for the country if this competence disappears because a company takes advantage of its position while politicians sit and watch. Another paradox is that Statoil is now giving out bonuses to all employees, in a situation where revenue fails and the industry is in crisis and the whole supply industry loses work as a result of Statoil cutting out activity, exploration and maintenance. There's no good signal for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1851	It hurts oil now. It's bad for those who don't have a job. It hurts the businesses. It hurts Norway. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for raising this inter-pelling debate in the Stortinget on Statoil and the competitive situation. But first of all, I want to thank the politicians who were before us, for having created a national oil policy that first looked at the people's interests and that gave us Statoil. For yes, we shall debate and criticize Statoil and their role, but never without first having thanked for having such a large company as is primarily occupied by Norwegian pedestals. And the problems within oil and gas and oil-related operations are not the sole fault of Statoil. There was a sudden and large fall in the oil price, a high cost because the industry as a whole was not cost-conscious enough in the good years, and there has been too much investment, which today gives too much capacity in the situation we now have. Of course, we should have a critical look at Statoil’s role, and the investigation by the Competition Authority into the competition conditions on Norwegian pedestal provided few answers. It was not unexpected. The challenges in the oil industry are not only of a legal nature. The partial privatisation of Statoil and the merger between Hydro and Statoil are historical facts. It is little fruitful to spend time today discussing whether this was right or wrong. I am disunited in what the Swedish Shipowners' Association in today's Business Life takes up as a solution, simply to reduce Statoil's share of the Norwegian base business and to move Statoil's ownership out of the OED, Oil and Energy Department. Because it's not given that if we take down Statoil's share, it will contribute to increased activity and increase the lack of Norwegian base. When it comes to moving ownership out of the OED and into another department, there's almost one claim that Statoil has been big because there's been something dubious inside the department. No, this is a result of a willful policy. Moving ownership out of OED doesn't solve any problems, but it might create some new ones. This doesn't mean that the owners should not have any comments on how Statoil is running. I think that one who owns should stay away from how the company operates, and there is room for both within company law, within the ownership principle and based on a measure of the highest possible return from the company. Owners have to assume more strongly that a company should think in the long term. Norwegian pedestal is where Statoil spends money. They do so, for example: because one has a strong Norwegian supplier industry. It is therefore in Statoil's interest that the supplier industry will not be troubling or going over the end. The owner must then express a clear desire for the company to be more aware of the long-term and less busy of the results in the next quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1863	I'm not going to go into a discussion about what's good for Norway, also good for Statoil and vice versa, but it's completely out of control. Nevertheless, the admission of Statoil into today's business was definitely necessary. One has done things, and one gets hearing stories that there's every reason to react to. Therefore, it is also easy to support the interpellant’s demand for a need for a review – of course there is reason for that. This is important because Norway should still be an oil nation for decades to come. We are still to obtain large resources from oil and gas. It's going to go up, and it's going to go down in the future, and it's going to help change the power relationship between the buyer and the seller. In severe downtime, the purchasing power strengthens. It is easy to be a supplier in high peaks with shortages in the market. Therefore, this is an important matter, but I mean and I want to repeat: we want to criticize Statoil and have a critical look at Statoil, but we do not have to get there that we do it to have a large state oil company that focuses on Norwegian base, to a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1867	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant, and I think it has been an interesting debate. Statoil was set up to carry out a significant and important societal mission, namely to build a Norwegian oil company and a Norwegian oil industry. They have become a major player, both here and internationally, until today, following the merger between Hydro and Statoil in 2007, with a market share of 70-80 pst. At the same time as Statoil has built up and taken its position, we have also developed an internationally leading supplier industry in Norway, to a significant extent along the coast. It is clear that when we are now in a situation where prices have fallen and all the companies are put under pressure – and the oil companies, more than anyone, have no choice but to cut their costs – we are in a situation where, almost out of the situation, Statoil is pushing its subcontractors, which is now in a difficult situation. For one thing, Statoil is such a dominant player, but they become dominant in all fields. It will be Statoil who premise the development and sale of technological, operational and commercial solutions on the base. I think it is very easy to understand the frustration of the suppliers, because they meet a dominant actor who needs to cut their costs, and they are in a weak position. That frustration must necessarily be there. But it is the policy that is responsible. Because, as has been pointed out earlier, there was no lack of scepticism in 2007 when the merger arrived. That's exactly what you pointed out, that here there would be too big an actor who would be unlucky for competition on the pedestal. This was probably not a problem in an upturn, but it is only when you have difficult times, that a system gets pushed and also the bias of the situation emerges. I think that's what we're actually seeing right now. The question is what we're doing now. Competition supervision necessarily has to do its job. The fact that there are conversations with the suppliers and the supplier industry is positive and good, but we still do not escape the basic problem that was also pointed out in 2007 by the civil parties when it was called for a look at Statoil's share, and whether it was necessary to reduce the producing fields, fields under development and search licenses. Because if you're going to have a less dominant position over time, that percentage must necessarily be lower. Then there is a question of whether it is right to consider whether Statoil should be moved from the Ministry of Oil and Energy — if not for the reason that the other companies are not necessarily in the same department. I believe that there must be a long-term approach here. It's the public, it's not Statoil, it's the public and the Biggest that's responsible for the situation we're in, that you have such a dominant position. It is we who are responsible for getting greater diversity and competition on the base, and then we have to look at what action can give it, and what action over time can lead to a change. Then we believe that it is still right to maintain the healthy scepticism of 2007, but also look at organisational changes, at least discuss whether it would be right in this situation that we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1882	I have planned to attend the 50th anniversary of Norwegian oil and gas, because there is no doubt that Norwegian oil business has contributed to enormous Norwegian wealth throughout all the decades they have had. That's what makes my daughter an oil millionaire when she was born. At the same time, there is no doubt that we, as Norwegian politicians, have had problems taking on us that these oil billions have had a price. There's someone who pays the price for making us rich in oil, and that's all the people who are hit hardest by climate change. There has been some sort of sketch in Norwegian policy, that is, when they have been with Nature and Youth, they have been asked the question: Does oil and gas contribute to climate change? Are climate change dangerous? Norwegian politicians answer yes to both questions, but when they get the question: Norwegian oil and gas contribute to dangerous climate change, Norwegian politicians often struggle to answer yes to it. Of course they do, and we shouldn't fool ourselves into believing anything else. That's why I think the 100th anniversary of Norwegian oil and gas is going to be significantly more muffled than the 50th anniversary, because there's no doubt that Norwegian oil and gas will have to be phased out if we're going to be close to achieving the goals we've set ourselves. Another thing that has made the Norwegian oil and gas industry vulnerable is the fact that in many ways we have given free ropes to the oil industry to decide the pace of its own development. It was a period of an attempt to do the opposite, but it was released. And even in a situation where public investigations like the Holden Committee, which pointed out that there would be a change, that there would be a need to hold back the allocation of new search areas, that it would be smart if we were to make a reasonable transition without a too hard landing, the Norwegian government could not do that, but instead had a tune and run. Also, this government here has been tuned and running on the granting of new exploration licenses in the oil sector. It helps that when we first have a crisis, it is hard for the Norwegian oil industry. I have a great deal of sympathy for all the people who are now going out of work, and I think the only sensible thing in such a situation is to move the focus: we should not have the 20 billion. kr in oil subsidies that we have through the favourable arrangements for the oil sector; instead, we should have switched to new industries. But the Minister of Industry has done the opposite, for she has cut off the money that has been spent on offshore winding from Statkraft. They have cut – removed – in the context of the year’s budget and cut the entire renewable energy investment in Norway after 2021 and even done the same abroad. So we don't see much of the transition. So to the debate, to what is currently happening, the very concrete thing about the competitive situation in the situation we are today: I have to admit that I think the debate has been a little concrete in terms of policy measures. I agree with those who say that it is not logical that the responsibility for Statoil lies with the Ministry of Oil and Energy, while the responsibility for Statkraft lies with the Minister of Industry. But I don't think you'll get any big changes on this if you move Statoil over to the Minister of Industry, that's kind of not what's going to happen. But I have one concrete proposal, or actually two, and that is the following: the government and the state are the largest owner in Statoil, and in addition, the government is responsible for setting frameworks for development and operation plans. Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian supplier industry have jointly developed a bunch of standard contracts – I have them here on my cell phone. The best thing to do to ensure that the supplier industry is not squandered is to force the oil companies to avail themselves of those standard contracts. Because it is the distortion of the terms of the standard contracts that puts the supplier industry in a much worse situation and allows the oil industry and Statoil and others to push them in the situation we have today. So my specific advice to Monica Mæland is therefore two things: make demands in all new plans for development and operation that the standard contracts negotiated by the supplier industry and Norwegian oil and gas should be used. The second is: go to the General Assembly of Statoil and say: we are making a premise for the further work of Statoil that the standard contracts negotiated with the supplier industry are being used. It will help to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1899	First of all, I also want to bring praise to the interpellant to address a very important matter. As many people have pointed out, the competition situation in Norwegian capital is very special, as we have such a dominant player, who controls close to 70 pst. of production. At the same time, it is good reason and a will policy that it has been so. Statoil has for a long time been a locomotive in Norwegian business within technology development, resource management and public revenues. A strong Statoil is important to the community and to Norway. I fully support the representative Pollestad in what he said. Of course, the dominant role in the market also has its drawbacks. Today's situation is that a subcontractor can have Statoil as a customer for up to 100 pst. of cases. Then the dominant actor must be conscious of his responsibility. I have received several concerns that Statoil has renegotiated contracts and that it is perceived that Statoil is exerting undue pressure on its subcontractors. The feedback on a culture of fear among subcontractors has been many lately, especially after the oil price drop and the subsequent cost cut in Statoil. It was gratifying to see in today's business today that Statoil Director Margaret Hövrum says that they have learned from their own mistakes and are working hard to develop a better cooperation with the subcontractors. That's good, and that work has to go on. It is also good that the company admits its own mistakes, but the main question is: Does it have serious social responsibility? It has not been given that Statoil's self-interest and the community's common interest are the same. State Council of Malta says that it expects social responsibility, and indicates that this is one of the ten principles of ownership. In other words, they're general and they're indebted to everyone. The Stoltenberg Government expressed social responsibility requirements for individual companies. In the last ownership message, as the minister himself presented, social responsibility was reduced. I think we in the room today might be a few if was unfortunate. I hope the Minister doesn't go into lockdown, but is willing to re-open the discussion of social responsibility and reinforce the demand for social responsibility for individual companies like Statoil, which is such a big and dominant player. Another issue is whether management and ownership should be distinguished – in line with the OECD recommended guidelines for State-owned companies. It would be nice to have an in-depth assessment of both the consequences and the possibilities of a possible division, possibly a move to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1908	I would like to start by thanking Mr Hemdal for giving us an opportunity to have an important and good debate in Stortinget. I would also like to thank all the representatives who have taken part in this debate today. Never before have I been able to say that I have agreed so much of what has been said, across the party lines, and I think we have had a good round. I don't think there should be any doubt that the competition situation on the Norwegian base is closely followed by the authorities, and I am very pleased that the Council of State took the initiative to review the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority has responded to what was their mandate, but I still believe that there is reason to ask whether this report actually answers all the questions we have about the competitive situation on the base. I also believe that the debate we have had here today shows this. I believe that there has to be a low threshold to tell you about any irregularities that occur in the industry now. As the Council of State also stated in its statement: Companies that believe they are being pressured in a way that is contrary to the Competition Act must give notice. Operators, and in particular Statoil, must all take their share of the responsibility to reduce costs. However, if suppliers alone have to bear the cost cuts, this will not lead to the structural changes we actually have to see in this industry in order to achieve lasting cost reductions on Norwegian pedestal. We need sustained cost reductions, if not, we just want to get right back in the same situation that day the price goes up again – which we discussed very much before the oil price fell, back to 2013 and the time before. Then the high costs were a problem, we had to do something about it. Then the price fell, and then the costs also came down. But I think there's a reason to be a little worried about how real the cost cuts are. I see that Statoil says something about this in today's business today. I think that's interesting, but I'm concerned that we need to get sustained cost reductions. It will be absolutely crucial for the future, and here in this Chamber we often discuss the future of this industry in a climate perspective, a sort of be or not in a climate perspective, but in addition to that, I believe that what is a be-or-not-be-discussion for Norwegian oil and gas industries is the cost level. Going into the future with prospects at lower prices and many market offers, it will be crucial for our industry to actually bring costs down, so we can be competitive in the future. So I think we have to listen to the signals that come about the situation from several teams. I will continue to follow closely the situation. I have heard many things that concern me, and that is why I believe – and this debate shows – that I am not the only one who has heard it. Therefore, it was a bit positive to read in today's business today that Statoil is in dialogue with the suppliers. They listen to the concerns expressed, and I notice that Statoil also admits that some of the criticisms that have come against them have not been unjustified. So Statoil should take the signals from the industry, but also from us who have participated in this debate here today, seriously. I think everyone deserves to know that the competitive situation on a Norwegian base is good – to take care of the jobs not only today, but also in the future. So I also think that those who have heard the debate here today can notice that across the political divides in this room is being expressed a very clear expectation that Statoil will and must be conscious of its social mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1920	In the ownership message, which was addressed in 2015, it is written: «The government expects government-owned companies to work systematically with their social responsibility and to lead in their fields. When the State that owns expectations of the company's work on social responsibility, it is both because the government believes that good management of such matters contributes to safeguarding the State's shareholder values and that state-owned companies should behave ethically soundly. For the purposes of this Communication, social responsibility means the expected responsibility of the companies for people, society and the environment affected by the activities, see below. the country’s principles of sound ownership.’;» This is the core of what we are discussing today. We expect companies in which the state holds a stake, is under its social responsibility, that the companies behave ethically, and that the companies assume a responsibility for people and communities affected by the activity. We also have these expectations for Statoil. And these expectations are reinforced by the fact that Statoil has become dominant through, among other things. the privileges granted to them on the Norwegian socket. There is no one who thinks we should not have a conversion. The costs have to fall within this sector and it is necessary to have a critical look at resource use. But that doesn't mean there shouldn't be any framework to deal with. It is a matter of ethically sound conduct and of recognising that the company has a special position through its size. Oil and gas are a cyclical industry with major economic fluctuations, as we experience in these days. It is the interaction between suppliers and operators that has made us world leaders, and this interaction must be present in both ups and downs. Statoil we all agree that it has been a Norwegian-socket locomotive that has contributed to innovation and new solutions. This has led to the acceptance of such a dominant position as the company has had. When an actor has 70 pst. of the market, yes, it is critical for the supplier that it is interoperable and that the customer is predictable. This does not mean that Statoil should not work to reduce costs. Of course they do. But that means they can't do this by exploiting a dominant position that scatters the suppliers. It is part of the social responsibility of Statoil to have a functioning interaction, otherwise one can hardly accept such a dominant actor as Statoil on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1939	Can it be expected that a company that tends to be a monopolist regulates itself and does not take advantage of its position? There are many heavy social conditions that suggest that this issue cannot or should be left unanswered. That Statoil now in the media takes self-criticism, yes that's good, but in my opinion not enough. There is time to make a thorough review of the competitive situation, which can contribute to the attractiveness of Norwegian loops for both operators and suppliers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1942	Thank you for all the good words for raising this interpellation. Thanks also for good speeches and a good debate, which I think we have had. It is good to be supported by the fact that this is a competition policy and not just a competitive light. It is precisely here that we must also focus on what is the difference between the light of competition and a greater responsibility for competition policy. It is good that that support comes in this discussion. So it's nice that Statoil today in today's business community admits that they also have to change how they handle the supplier industry. But those changes have to happen and be marked around the thousands of negotiating tables, and they have to be noticed in all the conversations that any Statoil employee has with subcontractors. That's where it has to be noticed, not via a newspaper lookup. I think it was very wise for the representative Per Rune Henriksen to say that that's how Statoil is dealing with the situation now, which is crucial to how to look at Statoil in the future, and that's what is the cloud here now, how they are doing it, because it needs to change if we're going to get a good interaction. I am not afraid of a large Norwegian oil company, which the representative Pollestad was concerned about. I have said that Statoil has been a success story and will be a locomotive on Norwegian pedestal for a long time, and I think many of us are happy about that. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås thought this had been an interpellation debate without any concrete proposals, and made two concrete proposals. The undersigned had at least three proposals, and further proposals than the representative himself made. Then I have respect for the fact that the State Council, Monica Mæland, the Minister of Industry, says that it is the Ministry of Oil and Energy that has the overall responsibility for the possible follow-up of a review. But it is also true that there is a lot of competition policy here, and not just the light of competition, and that was the way we did in 2007, if we were to create an international player that weighed heavier than competition on Norwegian pedestal. It shows with all clarity the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in 2007. We have a market-dominant company, and that gives us some challenges. I think the time is ripe for a larger review, and we will follow it further up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1957	I think this has been a good and very important debate. All of this is about us being fantastically lucky. We live in a country that has had and has amazing natural resources, and it has been built up a fantastic industry, oil companies and supplier industry, which has given us many important jobs that create unfathomable values, which are important and will be important for many decades to come. Then we are in a difficult situation, and what must be very clear from me, at least, is that the cost cuts on the Norwegian base are necessary. We were in the process of praising ourselves completely out of the market. This is an international market, so that the cost cuts are necessary, but they must be done correctly and properly. I feel that this debate is about, but that is why this is not a quick fix either. There's no fasit with two lines below. We can encourage, we can go into this, and we can follow this, and I can see that we're all doing that. Then we have tools. We have tools in competition law, and I take absolute responsibility for the government's competition policy. That is why we asked for the overall assessment we received from the Competition Authority. Should they go deeper into this, it requires a case, it requires them to be able to investigate, and therefore my call was now: if anyone believes that they are being subjected to conduct contrary to competition rules, it is important to use the tools they have. Then we have the ownership follow-up, which is very clear on our expectations and on our social responsibility, and there I just have to say that Hegge is taking positive mistakes. It is not that social responsibility requirements are weakened by this government. They are strengthened by this government. We take social responsibility seriously. I don't think a single member of the board of any company where the state is on the owner's side is in doubt about that. That social responsibility is important, and I just feel that Statoil is taking on today. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås made some concrete suggestions. Of course, I'm going to hand them over to the oil and energy minister, who is responsible, even if I want to say that I'm not sure if standard contracts will solve this. For example, it solves. not the conditions of power, and it resolves e.g. Nor does the need to implement things urgently in a global and international market, where action is needed, but this must be done in the light of the laws, regulations and frameworks we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1968	As a result, the interpellation debate is also over. After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e1983	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 2-5, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 6 and 7, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 8, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to monitor how the camp school offer in Norway can be stepped up with a view to making two camp school stays during primary school the main rule.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2013	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the right to free fishing in rivers and water for children and young people under 18 years of age, with the same framework as is currently applicable for children under 16 years of age.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for Stortinget in which access to pleasure rides with snowmobiles in Norwegian nature is suspended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2035	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the deadline for municipalities to identify and value their outdoor areas by 2018 and to contribute to the implementation of grants. The Government is further asked to return with an annual status for this work in the context of the budget proposal and to assess the necessary instruments to achieve this objective. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a survey of the competence and capacity of municipalities in the environment, nature and outdoor life so that they can discharge their responsibilities for environmental, nature and outdoor life management.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there are natural guides in charge of the State’s Natural Supervision at all nature information centres and national parks in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a national landscape strategy to identify the values we are going to take care of in the Norwegian landscape and, inter alia, to ensure that we take care of the unique Norwegian nature and areas that are important for outdoor activities, and to ask the Stortinget to be briefed on this work by 2018 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2067	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to strengthen the work against marine pollution, among others. through Keeping Norway Clean and the archipelago service, and extending the archipelago service to the whole coast.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2122	It's going to add up to VI. The President assumes that the Right. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2136	It's over V. The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2150	It is added over IV. The Workers' Party and the Centre have notified subsidiary aid here. [[(from the hall):]] Also SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2162	The President then assumes that the Greens want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2174	It's said over III. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid here. The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against. [[(from the hall):]] No, we vote in favour of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2186	The Socialist Left Party will vote in favour of this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2199	It shall be added to I, II and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2336	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2346	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2422	It shall be counted against II. The centre party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2435	It's votting over I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2445	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2455	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2465	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposals Nos.1 and 2 by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 3 and 4, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to introduce a general environmental tax on materials used graduated from the content of new non-renewable raw material in an equivalent manner between different renewable/recycled materials.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose to impose a similar levy on all chemicals from fossil raw materials and other material uses that are not subject to a CO 2 tax today.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2499	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Central Party, the Left Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to change the basic charge on the packaging of beverages to a charge on materials used graduated from the content of new non-renewable raw material. The fee must be set up in such a way that it does not distort competition between producers or different renewable/recycled materials.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete proposals on the means to achieve the objective of recycling all raw materials and materials and for all material uses to be from renewable and recycled raw materials by 2030.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2531	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2549	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2577	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mrs Arnstad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Greens/European Democrats. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure, as soon as possible, that Norwegian application of sustainability criteria and tax regimes prevents palm oil products, including PFAD, from being used as biofuels.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an industry agreement with the Norwegian Petroleum Institute in order to develop an industry standard that is better than the minimum requirements of the EU sustainability criteria and that prevents unsustainable production of biofuels, such as palm oil products, from being used to comply with the marketing mandate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2615	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Hansson on behalf of the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case with concrete proposals for extending the land border in the geographical areas referred to in the Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2640	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2667	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2682	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 by the Greens. Proposal No 3 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the allocations for the clean-up of hazardous nuclear waste on Kjeller to at least SEK 60 million in accordance with the IFE’. [[Institute of Energy Engineering]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for temporary emergency measures to secure nuclear waste at Kjeller until a safe storage solution is in place and return to the Stortingen in the revised national budget with an update on the progress of the work on a safe storage solution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2697	SV will support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2702	The Socialist Left warns that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2714	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe progress in the establishment of a safe solution for the storage of Norwegian nuclear waste.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2730	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2735	Then it'll be corrected. The proposal by the Socialist Left is not supported by 96 votes to 4. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By 1 January 2017, the Government requests the establishment of a State body responsible for the safe management of radioactive waste. The body must be guaranteed the resources and competences to also assess alternatives to the reprocessing of Norwegian waste.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-20.ana.ud250e2788	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
