ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e26	The representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Eirik Sivertsen and Bente Thorsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Fredrik Björnebeck, has taken the seat. From 1 March to 3 March in order to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Turkey, an application has been made by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives for the period from 1 March to 3 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, is hereby convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e60	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e63	I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of Anette Trettebergstien, Lene Vågslid, Stine Renate Håheim and myself about women in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e68	The representative Siri Engeseth will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e71	I would like to make a representative proposal from Terje Breivik, Ola Elvestuen and myself to introduce environmental taxes on fossil plastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e76	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e79	On behalf of the representatives of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the establishment of the Code of Ethics Information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e84	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 2, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e138	Today, shipping covers about 90 pst. of the world's transport needs between continents, while shipping's percentage of the world's CO2 emissions is 2,2 pst. Domestic freight analysis shows that maritime transport accounts for about 50 pst., while road transport has 40 pst. Every year 270 million tonnes of goods are transported on Norwegian roads. Of these, between 5 and 7 million tonnes of goods can be transferred from road transport to sea and rail – at least. The fact that more goods are transported by sea therefore contributes to both reduced CO2 emissions, less wear on the road network and fewer road accidents. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate growth in this part of the transport industry, and I am thinking in particular of short sea shipping, which is also part of the government's platform. Now it is that the transfer of goods between modes of transport will not only contribute enough to fulfil Norway’s climate obligations. All freight transport must be made safer, more environmentally friendly and effective. Short sea shipping has a low operating margin and depends on its competitiveness on both road and rail. Increased value creation in this industry, I believe, is one of the key factors for the industry to invest in new, more environmentally friendly ships. Here I believe the state needs to provide much more in the framework conditions. For example, maritime transport has far more taxes, fees and fees to deal with than the road and track has. Here the government must follow up its own platform and strengthen the short sea shipping. A green shift doesn't necessarily come of itself. In the climate agreement in Stortinget, the electric car tax exemptions were met until 2017, or when 50 000 electric cars were sold. That goal was achieved as early as April 2015. State instruments have led the ball to roll faster, and few today disagree that the charging system has been a success for electric car sales. But for Norwegian technology development, what we got from the green shift for electric cars was limited. Norwegian maritime industry has long traditions, is completely world-leading and has all the prerequisites for leading the green shift. Global competition in the maritime industry is very tough, and Norway must be at the forefront if we are still to be world leaders. Everyone wants environmentally friendly shipping, but who's gonna take care of it? Good intentions may crumble if political leadership is not sufficiently clear. Although it seems clear that fuel for ships will continue to be based on fossil energy sources for a long time to come, there is no doubt in which direction to go. The left decided at the national meeting last year that Norway should set itself the goal of becoming the world’s leading exporter of green marine environmental technology and vessels, and that Norway should contribute to the availability of zero-emission technologies for all types of ships on the global market by 2030 and, finally, that ferries, coastal cargo ships and high-speed craft in traffic in Norway should have zero emissions by 2030. There are three clear objectives that are essential to drive forward the green shift in shipping. In addition, during the harvest, the Stortinge has adopted a number of measures to promote zero-emission technologies for short sea shipping. In order to achieve the Storting's objective of zero emissions for ferries, coastal vessels and speedboats, the infrastructure needs to be organised. Several shore-side charging points and LNG stations for ships must be established. It is not enough to cheer up on environmentally friendly shipping – we need plans and systems to put environmental technology into practice. I know that the Minister of Industry and the Government are also concerned about that. It is only 14 years up to 2030, and the climate summit in Paris adopted ambitious targets. Although shipping was not part of the summit, it is clear that emissions from the transport sector account for about one third of Norway’s emissions, and maritime transport can contribute to a significant reduction in emissions. But we don't have much time. Strong innovative measures are needed. On Friday, the news came that Enova has allocated 133 million to Hordaland County Municipality. kr to expand land installations and zero and low-emission ferries. We need to have more of this. Not least I'm concerned about this in my own county, More and Romesdal. There is only one electric car ferry in the world – Amperes in Sognefjorden – and in Norway there is only one plug-in hybrid ferry. The pace must rise if we are to have a domestic market for Norwegian shipyards that will make them competitive vis-à-vis the global market. Siemens has determined that of Norway’s 180 ferries of 112 ferry routes, 127 ferries can be replaced by ferries that are either electric or hybrid. Both the environmental accounts and the economy come out of a switch to battery-powered and hybrid ferries. Ferry stands for approx. 400000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year and Siemens and Bellona believe that battery and hybrid conversion can reduce emissions by 300000 tonnes. If 84 dieselferger is to be replaced by pure battery ferries, the extra cost will be 3.5 billion. kr compared to new dieselferger. The extra costs include, for example: electrical infrastructure, charging solutions, batteries, electric propulsion system and new aluminium ferries. Ferry usually has 30 years of service life. Based on 10 years of operation, the 84 ferries will have a total reduction of 700 million operating costs. kr per year. According to Siemens, the additional cost will be paid down in five years, corresponding to the usual contract duration of the tenders. These are examples. We have to use the opportunity room that is now available with the decline in orders for Norwegian shipyards as a result of the oil downturn. It will also provide badly needed contracts and jobs, both in the West and in other parts of the country. The time to start the transition is now, but it requires political action. Research and development is a central tool for the green shift in shipping. Norway needs a national research policy with clear priority areas. The Maritime Research and Innovation Strategy21 has been developed by the Maritime Industry on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. It outlines five priority areas for the development of more environmentally friendly shipping. Unfortunately, the MAROFF programme, which follows the Maritim21 strategy, is underfunded. The left proposed to increase the item by 50 million in its alternative budget. kr, but unfortunately it did not get a majority. We can use the Norwegian coast as an incubator for new environmentally friendly technology and take a leading position globally in this new green market. Public services must also play a much more active role in stimulating, testing and implementing new solutions. Every year, it's public for over 430 billion. kr in different purchases. It is necessary to put in place a strategy on how these purchases can be drivers in the green shift. It is important that we set ambitious targets for an emission-free transport industry. And the question is: What action will the Council of State take to help Norwegian zero-emission technologies for all types of ships become available on the global market by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e185	Shipping is essentially an energy-efficient transport option for freight. The use of more environmentally friendly fuels and energy-efficient ships is a key factor in addressing environmental challenges in shipping. Norway has a advantage here. Long-term and strategic efforts have made us a world leader in the use of LNG, battery and not least electrical and hybrid systems in shipping. We need to take advantage of this position and ensure that Norwegian environmental technologies are made available on the global market. The interpellant therefore asks a very important question. The question intervenes in a well-known export policy issue, but let me first say that the government attaches great importance to helping Norwegian companies abroad to promote Norwegian exports. Before I address what steps have been taken to help make zero-emission technologies available on the global market, I would like to emphasise an important aspect, namely that zero-emission technologies, to which the interpellant refers, are a zero-emission technology solution, such as air and water. battery or hydrogen solutions. This is a technology that is not fully mature, and for which we are still in an early phase of developing and exporting solutions. Low-emission technologies are also much more environmentally friendly than conventional solutions, including: LNG and hybrid solutions are low-emission technologies. Norway is a global leader in these areas. Since the 1980s, Norway has been researching LNG as a fuel and the first LNG-powered ferry ‘Glutra’ was put into operation in 2000. So we now have 16 years of experience with LNG as a fuel for ships. 53 LNG-powered vessels are now sailing for Norwegian shipping companies, and almost the same number are on order for the next few years. Demand for LNG-powered ships is increasing, and Norwegian companies can deliver the technology needed. From the Norwegian side, we have close cooperation with several countries in this area. Low-carbon technologies also contribute significantly to reduced emissions, and it is therefore important that we include both low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies when talking about environmentally friendly technologies in shipping. Last year, the government presented an offensive maritime strategy with 69 measures to ensure sustainable growth and value creation in industry. The government has ambitious environmental goals for the maritime industry. We will stimulate green growth and increase the use of eco-technological solutions and more environmentally friendly fuels, so that we keep our leading position. The starting point for industrial policy is to contribute to the greatest possible overall value creation in Norway. We do this through stable framework conditions and by facilitating migration and innovation. One of the eight areas of government activity is to ensure competitiveness for Norwegian jobs. In order to contribute to this, the government attaches great importance to assist Norwegian companies abroad and promote Norwegian exports. The maritime industry has a high export share and an international presence. Innovation Norway is currently assisting Norwegian companies to assess market opportunities in more than 30 countries, many in emerging markets. The work is carried out through consultancy services, network services and competence and profiling services. In 2016, the government strengthened the Innovation Norway competence and profiling services by 36 million. kr. The aim of the initiative is to stimulate high export potential enterprises to exploit opportunities available outside Norway. Export Credit Norway and the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK, are important actors in the government’s efforts to promote Norwegian exports. Stable, predictable and competitive financing conditions are important for whether Norwegian companies win contracts or not. The Government also facilitates the realisation of more environmentally friendly value creation through schemes such as the MAROFF Programme of the Research Council, the Eco-Technology Scheme for Innovation Norway, Enova and the Nox Fund. In 2014 it was granted under 1 billion. to the maritime industry through various schemes in the Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Norway. The Ministry has recently launched work on the development of a new comprehensive research and innovation strategy for the maritime industry, Maritim2l. The strategy shall include, inter alia: identify how best to set up research and innovation policies to realise the potential for synergies in marine industries. Both industry and research communities contribute to this work and the strategy will be presented in autumn 2016. In order to contribute to the green renewal of the short sea shipping fleet, a 12 Mil condensation system is now in place. kr. At the same time, the Innovation Loan Facility Loss Fund will be strengthened through Innovation Norway by 28 million. kr, so that a higher risk can be taken than in the past for the contracting of new buildings. It's equal to a reinforced loan amounting to 100 million. kr. Innovation Norway is thus given greater opportunity to enter into funding support for the construction of new ships in short sea shipping. These schemes could also contribute to more activities for Norwegian yards and equipment suppliers and make Norwegian operators visible as an international supplier of environmentally friendly solutions for the maritime sector. New environmentally friendly solutions need to be profiled abroad and governments contribute where possible. Coordination of services between the EEAS and Innovation Norway will contribute to this. Action, networking meetings and maritime conferences are given priority, where natural. Assistance to individual enterprises is also a high priority. Delegation visits and foreign political visits are used to profile maritime Norway. The Maritime Directorate is also an important player in the profiling of Norwegian environmentally friendly solutions. Increased focus on climate challenges and stricter emission requirements increase international interest for green shipping technology and regulatory issues, and the Directorate is an attractive partner. Norway is a driver for the development of a good international framework for climate-friendly shipping. Internationally, the development of environmental legislation, combined with changes in market conditions, has made environmental investment more attractive. Clear and predictable environmental requirements as well as a comprehensive instrument from research to market contribute to the knowledge and demand of Norwegian environmentally friendly solutions. The marketing and export of low and zero emission technologies is primarily the responsibility of the industry. I notice an increasing interest in our green maritime solutions abroad, and the government will of course be helping to facilitate the export of green technology, in close cooperation with both industry and tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e230	I thank the Council of State for the presentation and have no problem recognising the government's maritime strategy as a good document. Both before and after the presentation of that document, the Left had good cooperation with the Minister of Industry. I'm glad, and I hope I can keep doing that. I agree that shipping is energy efficient already, I also said in the introduction, but we can do more, and that is in this area Norway has a advantage over many other countries – perhaps all other countries – not least when it comes to exporting technology. In order to reduce emissions from international shipping, Norway needs to work towards strict international rules and environmental measures to reduce emissions into air. A Sulphur Emission Control Area has already been created for the North Sea, including the English Channel. There is also a process to further reduce NOx emissions from shipping, with the establishment of a Nitrogen Oxide Emission Control Area for the North Sea – very good. The question is whether these areas should be extended to the north of the 62 degree, where we find some of Norway’s most vulnerable areas. I use the opportunity to ask the Council of State to say something about the issue north of 62 degrees. The NOx fund also contributes to fulfilling our commitments under the 1999 Gothenburg Protocol. Companies such as: Nor Lines has just built two LNG ships, and they just highlight that the NOx Fund is one of the few funds where relatively large support can be provided for the development of more environmentally friendly technologies. It is therefore important to clarify whether the scheme is continuing beyond 2017. Work is being done both internationally, regionally and nationally to limit greenhouse gas emissions from shipping. Although shipping was first out of binding global emission regulations across an entire industry sector, there is consensus in industry that it needs to be followed up by more market-based mechanisms, for example. charges that set a price tag on emissions beyond the limits laid down in global regulations. It's an important issue. Such charges may be set aside in an international fund, in line with the NOx Fund, which makes research and development available on climate action in shipping. A natural follow-up is therefore whether the government will take international initiatives to put a price tag on CO2 in international shipping and to include shipping in climate negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e256	Maritime nutrition is an industry where everything is characterized by the fact that most of it is related to our competence in maritime nutrition, that is to say, maritime competence. We need it at sea and on land. That's why maritime strategy is so hugely important, because we're taking all stages of learning, and if we're to be able to develop new technologies on land, we need the expertise at sea. I am very pleased with the good cooperation we have had. There are some questions that naturally belong to both the finance minister and the climate minister, so I'll let them answer that. As far as our engagement is international, there's one of the reasons why I think the maritime strategy to get the flag in more ships is very important. Our voice internationally depends on our strength, and then the number of ships we have in NIS and in NOR. We have a strong voice in the IMO, we are doing a very important work internationally, and we were the leaders in the development of the Polar Code, which regulates international shipping in polar struts. We did not get as far as we wanted, but we have come a bit on the way, and it is very important that we continue this work internationally, in the IMO and in the EU, in order to regulate the most vulnerable areas. So I experience that Norway has both competence, great commitment and enforcement at international level on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e265	Let me first of all thank Pål Påstad for the interpellation and the opportunity to debate this topic. Development and innovation for the maritime sector is an important issue in Norwegian business and, of course, also in the climate and environmental issues. The Danish author Poul Henningsen once said that the future comes of itself, the progress did not. The ability to think new and to create new solutions based on research and development is crucial to the challenges we face in the maritime sector and in other knowledge-intensive industries. Norway has a national research strategy, which the interpellant requested. Last winter we dealt with Report. St. 7 for 2014–2015, Long-term plan for research and higher education 2015–2024. Six long-term priorities were mentioned. and first of them the theme «sea». Norway has always been a nation that has lived off the sea and the marine and maritime resources. The fact that we are a leading maritime nation, however, must not become a sleeping cushion. Global and technological developments create new opportunities, especially if we are able to anticipate these developments so that we can take advantage of knowledge that promotes innovation and facilitates the necessary transformation. Then it's quite right what the Minister of Industry said in his first speech in this debate, and I also have to stress it: zero-emission technology is not a mature technology per day, and it might seem that it's a few years ahead of it, and before it responds financially. But of course you have to set goals – that's good. The maritime industry is today among Norway's most global, innovative and forward-looking industries. It has high employment, high value creation and ring-fences for other industries that make it an important driver of Norwegian business and Norwegian economy. The opportunities and challenges facing the maritime sector are not realised and managed without long-term and sustainable solutions. That is why it is good that we have a large majority and a government that has set ambitious and long-term targets for more environmentally friendly shipping. The government, through its maritime strategy, will stimulate green growth for the Norwegian maritime industry, increased use of eco-technological solutions and more environmentally friendly fuels for ships. Norway is currently the leader in the development of, among others: gas-powered ships and battery-powered ferries, an advantage that can be exploited and developed further. Several types of environmentally friendly fuels are available for use in ships, and several will be available as alternatives to diesel, which are mainly used today. The answer to the question of what can contribute to Norwegian zero-emission technology for all ship types is innovation. The eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway shall contribute to the commercialisation of environmental technology research projects by providing investment grants for pilot and demonstration projects in all types of enterprises. However, the most effective means of promoting low and zero-emission technologies in ferry and short sea shipping is taxation policy. International shipping depends on conditions of international equal competition and therefore has exemptions from certain environmental taxes. We must ensure that the charging and charging regime strengthens environmentally friendly shipping through new carrots. The MAROFF programme and the FUNN scheme contribute to the implementation of the government’s maritime strategy to promote environmentally friendly value creation, and of course we also want Enova to develop cost-effective instruments to support investments in environmental and climate action in the transport sector, including in the maritime sector. The NOx fund and the NOx fee were also mentioned. It's an important tool. It was introduced in 2007 to stimulate emission reductions. The agreement obliges trade organisations to contribute to the reduction of NOx emissions. As far as I have understood, the government proposes to negotiate with the organisations a new agreement as a basis for further exemption from the NOx tax, and negotiations can start as soon as the government has more clarity on the level of Norway's international emissions obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e298	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important and exciting debate. We in the Christian People's Party have long worked to stimulate more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport, including maritime transport, and that is why we are happy to have this debate today. There is an increasing awareness of the world's environmental and climate challenges. Both individuals, organisations and authorities want to reduce environmental and climate-damaging emissions. Therefore, tomorrow’s winners must focus on energy efficiency improvement and environmentally friendly solutions. The Paris climate agreement, the Storting climate agreement and other climate policy commitments mean that we must jointly take a significant responsibility for reducing our climate impact. Norway has fantastic conditions for developing the environment-friendly and sustainable transport solutions of the future. Our maritime industry has a long experience of finding the very best solutions to the most demanding challenges. I therefore agree with the inter-pellant, who says that Norway's coastline should be a haven for environmentally friendly maritime solutions that can be exported later to the rest of the world. Maritime transport is already the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport if emissions per tonne-kilometre are calculated. Where a container ship may carry 1 kg of cargo approx. 120 km with an emission of 1 kg CO2, a truck comes no longer than 20 km with the same emission, and an aeroplane does not arrive less than 1 km. Strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport will result in more of the load being shifted from road to sea and will only contribute to a reduction in climate and environmental emissions. Norway’s maritime industry has a world-leading position. This comes as a result of great competence, high quality and a complete maritime cluster that has been deliberately invested over a long period of time. The willingness to take care of the climate and the environment has been crucial for the development of new environmentally friendly technologies and concepts. There are a number of good examples of that, and let me take a few: the offshore ship Eidesvik at Bømlo already used its first LNG ship 15 years ago. Since then, they have been in the forefront of both fuel technology and battery operation. Another example is Nor Lines in Stavanger. In 2015, Nor Lines launched two freight ships called “Kvitnos” and “Kvitbjørn”, both of which operate on LNG. The emission reduction is large: 38 pst. CO2 reduction, 90 pst. NOx reduction and 100 pst. SOx reduction. This is the result of the industry itself having an offensive and ambitious environmental vision. And not only the individual companies, but also the Shipowners' Association, have gone ahead with a goal that Norwegian shipping and offshore entrepreneurship should not have any environmentally harmful emissions from sea to air. This is an ambitious objective that the Norwegian authorities should also put themselves behind, and stimulate this to become a reality. At the same time, it must not be so that the perfect becomes the enemy of good. We have had a small discussion about the zero-emission ambitions, and they must not spoil the development of new, more environmentally friendly solutions that reduce emissions in the long term, because «in the long term» consists of many short, small steps. I think it should also be stimulated to increase the use of alternatives to the traditional marine bunker oil that is widely used today. From an environmental point of view, the heavy oil is not desirable as a fuel. It contributes to air pollution and can cause major environmental damage and clean-up costs in the event of accidents or emissions. I want a wide range of fuels like biogas, methanol and hydrogen. This is achieved through good and predictable framework conditions and funding for research and innovation. Then we have to use the charging and charging system to stimulate investment in environmentally friendly solutions. Finally, I want to ask for a matter that I know the government is working on, but which I wonder when to come, and that is the wreckage scheme and the innovation loan scheme for ships in the short sea shipping fleet. We know that our short sea shipping fleet has an average age of 30 years, and renewal of this fleet is important. Then we have to use the measures that we have now adopted. We have to get them started and put them to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e331	I can start by thanking the interpellant, Farstad, to raise the issue. This is a debate that has both a long-term perspective and is also important to facilitate an industry that has all the potential to be one of the great ones for Norway in the future. But there is also a debate that is a very good way to deal with things that one can do reasonably bypassing to remedy a situation that is reasonably precarious. Now the Western Council of State and not least the maritime industry in the West know at least as well as the signatures. I had a little round in Sunnhordland two weeks ago and visited, among other things. NCE Maritime CleanTech at Stord, a cluster for the maritime industry. Westerners are amazing people, especially the sun-horders. This was when companies experiencing the worst crisis ‘ever’. But were they busy driving crisis maximisation when they met a politician who has the power to make changes? No, they were busy showing opportunities, discussing all the exciting things they're now thinking about and driving with. They had two very acute measures that they're working on. One thing was the most tangible: At Stord, as the Swedish Government knows well, Wärtsilä has created a test centre to scale up technology before the maritime industry. There is a test centre that, because of the current situation, is in danger of being shut down, but as now, companies at Stord, Bømlo – in Sunnhordland – are working together to build up a permanent test centre in which everyone can access and drive technology development and innovation. It's actually one of the big holes in the toolkit, that there's too few possibilities to scale up technology. In this way, it's very exciting with what SIVA is planning, the so-called Norwegian Katapult program. It would have been very interesting to hear the Minister's assessments both of it and not least of what the Minister and Government are planning to do when it comes to getting the Katapult programme up and running. After what the signs mean, we should really make a profit from getting it up right now, in connection with the revision of the state budget to summer, because there's a quick response to an emergency situation. The second thing – and this is how it was at the very right time that the representative Hemdal called the Reiarlage Eidesvik at Bømlo – is that one of the major problems today is that there is no demand for and market for ships based on low and zero emission technologies. Now it is not possible to blame today's government or the current state council for the fact that the previous government, the red-green, did not see that setting requirements also for the operators on the base, for the logistics part of their enterprise, also until those degrees lead to the development of industry in the next round and create a home market for their own industry which in the next round will increase their competitiveness in world markets. But once again, what would be interesting was to listen to the thoughts of the Council of State that we now have a need to also set climate requirements for the operators on the base when it relates to the logistical part of the enterprises out there, that is, the ocean-based part.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e344	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important and proper debate in these times. Maritime nutrition is one of our three major knowledge clusters, and more often and more often we now see that we can use the knowledge clusters, we can shift skills between them, and we can solve future challenges in a good way in Norway. Some of the paradoxes we experience when we want to do things better is that for some of the industries, there are clear challenges. If we move the freight problem to another knowledge cluster, like seafood, we experience the paradox that because we have now become very good at producing fresh products, we are dependent on fast transport, and a lot of it is going today by car to Europe. Once again, we have a lot of available capacity back to Norway. We have cheap cargo in, cargo that we don't exactly label as the most environmentally friendly, but that's the most effective thing we have today, and competitively we get a distorted picture of short sea shipping. Seafood is a cluster we're good at. There we also depend on getting to the markets quickly, and that often gives us a competitive image that does not fit our wishes for more environmentally friendly transport. It takes us further to the discussion we have today in the Economic and Social Committee on a competitive maritime food industry. The more we can do in Norway, the more we can do further processing in Norway, the more we take down the need for volume when it comes to shipping out. It will be possible for us to get a more environmentally friendly, a more green, footprint from that industry. Using technology and other forms of packaging allows us to extend the period during which our products stay fresh and are highly valuable, and it also allows us to gradually start using other forms of transport. It'll make it possible for us to put a more green footprint on this type of transport. So it's like I have a lot of respect for the Westerners and what they've done. I come from a part of the country where the Westerners for a large part have populated the part of the country. In the north we also like to think that they sent the best heads northwards. That's why I'm not going to Sogn, but I'd like to go to Finnmark and Berlevag to give an example of innovation and environmentally friendly thinking. In the north, we have the best wind resources in mainland Europe. We have built wind farms, but we are sadly few to use this current, so we wear a little. It's very far from many, but then we've also come up with new plans: think if we can build a hydrogen plant in Berlevåg, use the wind resources to convert them into environmentally friendly energy. Maybe in the future we'll see boats and cars moving forward on hydrogen based on the rich wind resources we have in the north. It's just the technology that's not ready yet, but that can come, and there's a lot of smart minds and a lot of big companies working on this. So to the interpellant, which says we have to have a strategy in terms of purchases. I must then be allowed to point out that in the Business Committee today we have to deal with a law on public procurement, where the government is quite clear that we need to think about new things. And how the public spends the money is important for what environmental footprints we set. I would like to refer to Section 5, Environment, Human Rights and other social issues. The proposition states: ‘The first sentence of the first subparagraph of this provision provides that State, county and local authorities and bodies governed by public law shall establish their procurement practices in such a way as to contribute to the reduction of harmful environmental impacts and to the promotion of climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate.’;» In the extension, we are allowed to say that the times we are going to spend public money, we are going to say in the tendering process: OK, this is how we did the last time. In the next round of tenders, what will make it possible to point to an improvement in our climate change? How can we say, relevant, that here we have purchased services in a more climate friendly way, here we have the climate footprint? That is why I would like to end by saying that I agree that the Norwegian coastline is a haven for green thinking, for forward-thinking and for the development of climate-friendly technology. We're just going to take it on the way we started. Then this is going to go very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e364	Can't I just start with Frank Bakke-Jensen and say that if you need anything to use the power from the windmills in Finnmark for that, it's just to support SV's proposal to electrify on Melkøya. There will be a significant need for electricity and could be the basis for the very type of wind production that Frank Bakke-Jensen is engaged in. There is a proposal to deal with this in the UK at this very moment, recommended by the Environment Directorate. But to this matter I just want to say that I think it is very good that the matter is addressed. It's a continuation of the debate we have in a lot of committees and at a lot of levels about how we can use the amazing workforce we have, and the amazing competence we've built up to carry out a green shift in Norway. I listened to LO's Vice-Chairman Hans-Christian Gabrielsen at a conference in Bergen last week, and he asked a good question. He said, "What makes a workplace green?" That's a good question, because it's hard to see a few times and say, "Is this a dirty job?" Is this a black workplace? Is it like this that we have to scrap all those who run in the oil industry now, and instead go over to doing something completely different, to green jobs? The answer is not that. The answer is that what makes a job green is what kind of job you do. If the same company operating in the supply of oil installations in the North Sea chooses instead to supply ships using zero-emission technology – it is the same yard that does, it is exactly the same workplaces, but the mission is different – one has gone from being a job that cannot be described as ‘green’ to being a job that can be described as ‘green’. That is just the opportunity that I perceive that the interpellant, Farstad, wants to travel, and that the Council of State Monica Meland has responded to. The question is how we can carry out a green shift and get to a climate cut. Then I will start by addressing a critical question to the Council of State. When the Council of State speaks, I constantly hear climate improvements. But we forget one thing that's important, and it's that the Paris climate conference has told us the following: we're going to zero, and we're going to zero as soon as possible. When you think about the investments made in the shipping industry, it's investments that go on for a long time. Then is not a little better enough. If we're going to be able to claim in the international competition of the time that's coming, we're going to have to keep twisting our heads and saying that if it's not zero, it's not good enough. If it can't be zero, it's not good enough. That is why I have some challenges – and this is also because the Minister for Climate Change was standing here yesterday and was unable to come up with one measure that the government has promoted to provide more zero-emission cars, not one measure to cut the oil industry, and the Minister for Fisheries did not come up with a measure that the government has promoted that leads to zero emissions and significant climate reductions in the fishing fleet. We depend on every minister doing what they can. We have to go to zero. Then I just want to address some very specific challenges to the Minister of Industry, which I think she can answer in the last round. We first announced offers for zero and low emissions in the ferry sector, which made it possible with the first zero-emission ferry, ‘Amps’. It made it possible to make public procurement requirements for more people to come. The Storting gave the following message during its treatment of this: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ And we say that gas is not to count as low emissions in this context. Nevertheless, a law on public acquisitions has been submitted which does not contain an absolute requirement requested by the Storting. How has the Council of State intended to monitor the Decision of the Grand Duchy on zero emissions from the purchase of ferries? The second is that the Environment Directorate outlines a number of points where the sector of fisheries, coastal and maritime transport is important. Then I would like to highlight what Terje Breivik was about – which is now taken from those who are most forward-looking in business – with the fact that more stringent emission requirements are to be imposed on all operators on the base. Public acquisitions in the transport sector should not be limited to environmental considerations. But why is zero emissions not required where all public tenders for purchasing services are possible? And the last thing I want to say is that Farstad's proposal for an international price of CO2 would be good. An international convention that allows the type of requirements in the shipping industry to be set would be very good. It does not comply with IMO requirements; it is about putting in place an international CO2 tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e394	I thank the Council of State and the Council for this important debate. That all representatives who have spoken here now express considerable ambitions, promises well. What matters now is that we come from word to action. This is an important cross-ministerial work, which was also attended by the Council of State. Important conditions for shipping are in the Ministry of Transport, development of the maritime industry is in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, and research and development is in the Ministry of Knowledge, which the representative of Bjørnstad pointed to in his statement. For the Left, it is important to create a national strategy and action plan to drive the green shift as part of the maritime industry – a part of the maritime strategy if it is. This requires close cooperation between several departments on development. In this context, I would like to point out that already on Monday 29 February, the trade unions are presenting their professional proposal for a new national transport plan. This plan sets out important framework conditions for shipping and short sea shipping in respect of both freight and passengers. For the Left, it will be essential that the next national transport plan focuses much more on climate and environmental considerations. Emissions from the transport sector as such must be reduced. Individual industries may not be responsible for making up a relatively small proportion of the total emissions, as is often the case when you see this piecewise. All sectors must contribute to the green shift. This also applies to shipping, although initially it is a very environmentally friendly form of transport, which has been discussed here by many. The next NTP must strengthen the competitiveness of short sea shipping by promoting incentives for the transport of goods from road to sea and rail. There is a great need for a strong uplift to the infrastructure of maritime transport, which we have been faced with. In addition to the maintenance of fairway traffic controllers, it is important to facilitate infrastructure to and from ports in the form of road and rail links. The role of maritime transport must be strengthened in the work of the national transport plan – it must. I welcome the content of today's debate. I'm actually on the verge of being lifted up. Now, what's important is that we think about pace. At least the left is impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e410	It sounds like it might be a good entrance to the weekend.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e413	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question. We agree that we have a world-leading maritime sector, and in fact we also have world-leading technology. If we are to maintain that position, it requires both industry and government to work proactively together, that through our instrumentation, through foreign stations and agencies, we ensure that the industry receives the support it needs, among other things. to promote their technology abroad. I would like to mention that last year we supported seminars and meetings to present Norwegian companies' competence on just green shipping in Hong Kong, South Korea, Germany and the United States. Japan and Singapore are also priority countries. This industry is unique in terms of conversion. It's been over hundreds of years, and we know that parts of the industry are struggling hard now. In that case, development, innovation of new technologies, will be a competitive advantage in the international context. I'm sure of that. Some questions have been asked. I'll try to answer some of them. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås is concerned about skipping over the development and right into the goal. I think innovation is just about going one step at a time. This means that low emissions are important. Zero emissions are the goal, we agree on that, but I think you have to go and develop something that is mature and that fits. There is a difference between buying coffee and building the opera. When we talk about the rules relating to public procurement, I've been busy simplifying. It has been difficult because all good purposes are desired into those rules, but this must be practiced by individuals in municipalities, in counties, in the state. So we are now setting stricter environmental requirements. Someone wants us to go a little further. Well, I find that we now have a stricter regime. It's going to have an effect because politics works, and I'm glad. With regard to the condomisation scheme and the adopted innovation loan scheme, it is announced in a very, very short time. We're talking about days rather than weeks. We've been working since the state budget was decided to get it in place, so we're about to do that. As regards the Stord cluster and the need for piloting, it is known. We have now supported Southlandslab through both the revised and state budgets, and it is a desire in several environments for pilots, for catapults. I agree with that need, and we need to see what we're doing to put the budgets in place in the future. With regard to the requirements of the socket, it is natural that there is a question which must be addressed primarily to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and which must also be subject to consistency assessment by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I won't do that on their behalf. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-18.ana.ud1348e426	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over. Case No. 2 has already been processed and the current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
