ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e26	From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik from 20 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e44	Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e49	On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Geir Pollestad and myself, I am delighted to propose tender criteria for a new government quarter which ensures that Norwegian industry becomes more competitive. We in the Center Party want a Norwegian government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e54	The representative, Jette F. Christensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e57	On behalf of Martin Kolberg, Gunvor Eldegard, Michael Tetzschner, Erik Skutle, Helge Thorheim, Tom E.B. Holthe, Hans Fredrik Grövan, Abid Q. Raja, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself will present proposals for changes to the control law and the control directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e62	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e74	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet on oral question time. The announced members of the government present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e81	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. We are approaching a frightening historical record: the number of unemployed is almost 130,000. Only in Rogaland have increased unemployment by 82 pst. the last year. It is critical for those who have lost their jobs and for families who fear cancellations, but it is also critical for Norwegian companies and businesses, who, under strong pressure, lack valuable competences. Norway can do better than this. When I meet leaders and add them to Norwegian industrial companies, there are particularly two key issues that remain. The first is that they want to maintain their skills and not tell people they know they need. And the second is the possibilities of existing businesses. Founders and entrepreneurs are important, but what really stands out is that the companies that exist are able to meet the challenges. They don't just say that in meeting with me, that's what they say with a loud voice. Last out there was Walter Qvam, head of the Kongsberg Group, who says to the Class Battle that ‘there is very little focus on all the hundreds of medium-sized enterprises [[...]] He's right. Therefore, the Labour Party prioritises both new votes and founders, but not least to support those established to take the time in which we are now. I mean – again – that Norway can do better than today. We in the Labour Party presented a business package last fall on work for all – to maintain the skills of existing enterprises and to build bridges for new industries. We were not supported. Unemployment continues to increase. So my question is, what does the Minister of Industry do to meet what both Qvam and other business leaders are busy about, that is, supporting existing companies to preserve and create jobs where it is most effective for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e99	I fully agree that unemployment rates are very serious in parts of the country. This is a situation where the government has followed and taken action in relation to, and which we continue to follow, and we are taking action all the way. I think it has widened a misunderstanding that most of the measures taken are about entrepreneurs. That's not the situation. The situation is at 70 pst. of the Innovation Norway framework goes to existing enterprises, existing businesses. In three budgets, the government has increased the framework for Innovation Norway, to Siva and to the Norwegian Research Council by 2.4 billion. kr. This goes to companies that are in transition, creating new products, new processes, creating new services. So that's to the greatest extent that we're on the offer page – we give money when it's necessary. Last year we presented a maritime strategy. It was to ensure Norwegian seafarers several ships to the Norwegian register, in a situation where very many in maritime industry are struggling. We changed the rules of licensing in June. In August, we filled the frames of Innovation Norway in the South and West by 100 million. kr, and in October we presented a founding plan in which we had announced 400 million. NOK extra to entrepreneurs, because we need both. We need to develop existing businesses and create more jobs, and we need new businesses with growth potential. Now we're rolling out an action package of 4 billion. kr. This is about creating jobs quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e108	I would like to thank you for this statement. At the same time, we see that DNB estimates that the unemployment rate will continue to rise to 6 pst. until 2019. In other words, we are approaching a rather gloomy record. Already 130,000 have been unemployed. They're worried, their families are worried, and companies don't know what they can expect. They look to the Minister of Industry for answers about his immediate future, while looking at the projections for, among other things. DNB says things can get even worse. Insecure times require a rather secure leadership. What security can the Minister of Industry provide for those who experience this security now and who also know that their jobs are at risk? When does the Minister of Industry realize that she and the government will be able to stop this trend that we now see we are in? When does she realize that her policy is going to start working?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e113	The situation we're in shows two things: first, how extremely vulnerable we are. Second, how little good we as a nation have been to prepare ourselves in good times for more difficult times to come. We have implemented a number of measures, and only 20 days out in the budget year, tenders are being rolled out: it does so from health companies, it does so from the defense, it does so from the university and higher education sectors, it does so from the cultural sector – 4 billion. kr to get jobs quickly in the areas where we need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e120	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e123	As the Council of State itself said, maritime industry is also within a demanding period of time in all segments. The offshore fleet has gone from zero ships in warehouses to over one hundred in warehouses now. Dry bulb also wears. And so it is that Norwegian maritime nutrition is in a special class, both because we are world leaders, and because we have a complete value chain. But to maintain this position, we need to take care of the competences we have. The council said to the previous asks that the government has presented a maritime strategy. The measures implemented have been effective, but more people, such as the statutory net pay scheme, need to improve the framework conditions for maritime transport – such as road transport – and the means to do so with the wreckage scheme, in order to mention something. My question is to the Council of State: What will the Council of State do now to ensure the important part of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e128	We fully agree with the importance of maritime nutrition. It employs over 100,000 people and means a lot both at sea and on land. That's why I'm so happy that after decades now, we're getting changes to the regulations on shipping, making changes to the scheme for seafarers, and we're working on the statutory net pay system. This is about creating predictability, and it is about securing Norwegian maritime competence. We know that even before some regulations are in place, a dozen ships are about to fly home. It's important. Then it is that, in addition to strengthening the subsidy scheme for seafarers, we have put forward a package for green shipping in the state budget, and it is now going to be implemented. It is about renewing the short sea shipping fleet, and it is about introducing a conditioning system. In addition, a number of measures in different disciplines and departments of maritime industry are now under way. My hope is that we will see the results very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e133	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e136	I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following: Is Minister for Industry Monica Mæland satisfied with his own efforts to combat rising unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e142	It is such that increasing unemployment goes hand in hand with falling oil prices. So this is not a national issue. This is an international issue. We're dealing with the situation. We have implemented a number of measures over the last year. We are now 20 days out in the budget year, and we are taking a number of measures in both the short and long term because both parts are correct. That's how we have to create more jobs quickly. We're doing that with an action package of 4 billion. NOK, and then we have to contribute to the change in business. That is why I am very pleased that we have increased the operational instruments in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries through the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva by 2.4 billion. kr in the last two years. It is important for firms in difficult transition and it is an important far-reaching hand from the country to help minimise the costs of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e147	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e150	The Minister of Economic Affairs is the Norwegian Council of State, and it is important to see what action is being taken to deal with the situation in this country. We have record high unemployment, and I hope that the Minister of Industry will take up the situation and think concretely about how to solve the situation we are facing, especially along the coast. What concrete measures are the Councils of State taking in the short term? One thing is to answer '4 billion. kr» on all questions here, but what kind of concrete effect will those out there experience on the body, and when will they feel that the Council of State is taking action that makes them have a job and a secure future, rather than the uncertain situation that many are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e157	I can assure you that I am taking the situation seriously. I visit companies every week that have difficulties, and that are now in degraded situations. We also have close contact with organisations and social partners. This is, of course, critical for the individuals, families and communities affected, and it is therefore important when we take short-term action that they have a rapid impact. That is why I have just mentioned that health businesses, the cultural sector, the defence sector, universities and colleges just these days are issuing tenders for building projects and rehabilitation projects, and for the yard industry to be commissioned. So we're doing a number of actions in several areas, just in those areas where more jobs are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e164	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e167	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Transport. A fundamental factor in reducing unemployment and getting new jobs in industries that are struggling is conversion. One of the industries that is now struggling is the yard industry in the West. At the same time, the shipbuilding industry can become world leader in green technology through domestic transformation. I visited on Monday this week the DNV GL, which is the Norwegian Veritas, who told me that 52 ferry routes can already be replaced by a battery vessel. At the same time, we know that ferry offers are long-term and that the state contributes billions of dollars annually linked to them. In order to prevent dieselferger from running for many years at the expense of zero-emission ferries, it is important that the state is rapidly – if not immediately – engaged in contributing to the development of green technology. What is the plan of the State Council to follow up the Storting's demand for zero-emission technology and to ensure that future tendering processes ensure that zero-emission ferries are awarded the contracts, while at the same time ensuring both conversion and new commissions for the Norwegian shipyard industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e176	The transport sector is an important part of government policy to create more jobs and keep more people employed. In the turbulent times we see now, it is important to provide jobs quickly – not just think of jobs that come up several years in time. What the representative addresses is one important part of this. We have already informed the Swedish Coast Guard Agency that a boat that they had ordered with old technology, which was to be built in Denmark, will now be re-examined, with environmental technology, and with the possibility that Norwegian shipyards will be able to compete. On several ferry routes, we have said that we should have e-ferries, for example: on Anda-Lote. There are now several other sections where we are going to rediscover and impose stricter environmental requirements, which will lead to new construction or at least to upgrade existing boats. This means jobs in the short term. I would also like to remind you that the share of the road and rail budget that goes to maintenance and renewal was estimated to be 5.1 billion. kr in 2014, but it is now, in 2016, of SEK 9.1 billion. kr. So it's going to be 4 billion. kr more to employ people and to do sensible things.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e187	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e190	My question is to the Minister of Industry. For a whole year, there was an almost total opposition calling for better law enforcement to ensure that the competence of Norwegian industry could be maintained for a difficult period of time. Then the government parties were most concerned about rejecting the recommendation from the opposition that it was important not to lock up the competence, as several said, including the Prime Minister himself. Another thing that was important to the government parties that year, was all the time to underline how neutral they were. These two ideological dogmas made sure that the government was continually in deficit, while everyone else saw that unemployment was on the way up. Last autumn, there were measures for the unemployed who became the balancing item when the refugee expenditure was to be covered. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs think that the government's action against unemployment has worked so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e203	The word ‘nutritional neutrality’ has never been used by any representative of this government. It is a concept used by the opposition, which is simply not representative of government policy. That's why we're spending 100 million. kr extra on maritime nutrition in the maritime strategy presented last year. It just happens because we don't have a business-neutral policy. We're spending over 200 million. I want to profile my travel life. It's not nutrition neutrality. And we have a number of thematic research and development programmes, both through Innovation Norway and the Research Council, which are not neutral. So it's a concept that the opposition uses -- it doesn't matter to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e210	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e214	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In his New Year's speech last week in Oslo Military Society, the Minister of Defence said: ‘My objective is to provide a credible and good long-term defence plan. A long-term plan that enables the defence to solve its tasks and protect our interests. A plan that is economically sustainable and makes reasonable use of the resources of society.’» [[...]] In addition, the Minister of Defence said: ‘A Minister for Defence has two main tasks.’ 1: be ‘responsible for the development of’ Defence 2: ‘part of a college of interests of the nation’ In July 2016, more women will be part of the Defense, with the protection of girls. It's really a change and development of the defense, you ask me. Over many years, the goal has been to strengthen the recruitment of girls. Now we're there, and we have the girls here. Nevertheless, there have been many issues that show unacceptable attitudes to women, criminal reactions, exercises where one has to bathe naked, or – as told by women after they have served – there has been sex harassment and bad attitudes, which can in the long term harm the reputation of the defense. My question to the Minister of Defence is: What has been done in the Defense specifically to secure the girls who are now coming in, so that they are valued and respected, and so that there are mood changes – when one is not going to change the instructions in the Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e239	Thank you for a good and important question. We're in the lucky situation that we have a lot of girls applying for military service. That's a number we expect to increase in the future, even if not with big pants at first. We expect a steady increase. The second is that we, as one of a few countries, have had women in Defense for many years, and we got women in combat positions already in 1985. Now we see that the same discussion is going on in the United States, putting women in the first line. That's what I think is a very positive development. We work a lot with attitudes, ethics and management. The defense has it as one of its most important priorities for the summer, when you expect to receive even more girls in service than what's in Defense today. What we're doing in addition is that we have research on how to best manage to have a diversity in defence. We've been experimenting with sex-mixed rooms, which have proven to be very successful. We've been very busy training the leaders and commanding the defense, because it's those who are in positions of leadership towards the young guardians. We have a security investigation that we're very happy to say shows a very great well-being among the underprivileged, and the girls thrive even better than the boys. We have been very busy when, among other things. shows support for the Soldier Action, which in 2016 will be entitled ‘Reciprocal Respect — A Joint Responsibility’, is the political signal that goes both from me and from the government, and is also clear signals from the Defence Manager about what is acceptable and not acceptable in the Defence. We are concerned that everyone should thrive and be able to perform a good service, and not least that no one should be subjected to bullying, harassment or unwanted sexual attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e250	I thank you for your answer. We need a defense, we need a defense that also has a popular anchoring, and we need a defense that's capable of recruiting the best and the most motivated. I am pleased that attitudes and ethics are on the agenda. It may take time, but I'm glad you focus on it, because the human resource is also very important in the defense, not just technical equipment. Nevertheless, technical equipment is also needed. Girls are a little different physically than boys, so my question is: Can the council assure the government that the defense is also prepared to think sanitary matters, think uniforms, think that the equipment is also suitable for women when they are given room – and a much more central place – in the Norwegian defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e259	I want to express my full agreement with the representative of Bollestad as to the fact that the soldiers, the people, are the most important input factor in the defense. In defence, pilot projects are now being carried out, inter alia: with a size register. It is important precisely to adapt the personal clothing and equipment to the fact that women are essentially a little smaller than men, both in height and weight. They shall have appropriate equipment to enable them to perform their duties properly. Extra emphasis has also been placed on those departments where there are most women — going to those places first to solve challenges related to, for example, drug use. sanitary conditions. The defense has set a very good plan for this, and it is closely followed up both by the defense chief and me, because we both want the defense to be ready to receive more women. The defense, as I said, has had women for very many years. I'm very happy about that, and a lot of them also represent role models and role models for other women. Then it's important to also emphasize that close to 90 pst. by the girls who perform the initial service, are well-off in the Defence. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e268	There will be follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e271	‘In 2016, we write history when we receive the first sheltered girls for the first time in the summer under new general protection law.’ This is a quote from the Chief of Defense's anniversary this week, a week after the Council of State gave its speech. But this was also almost all that was said about this issue in the year of the Chief of Defense. Culture is built and is modified by clear management. Yes, we've had a growing proportion of girls in Defense for many years, perhaps longer than most. But now we're facing a whole new recruitment situation. My question to the Council of State is then: how will the Council of State ensure that the defence leadership is as clear as the Council of State in today's magnificence is at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e281	It's in many ways historical, even though we've had women in Defense for many years, when we're now implementing a reform that means equal rights and equal obligations. It also means that an almost unanimous mass, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, was behind a reform that will in the long run mean that we'll probably get more women into the defense. Then leadership is crucial, and it's also been very clear to the head of defense when he's been talking about these things in many other forums than the Oslo Military Society. Without clear leadership, attitudes and culture will not change and will not be taken into account, for example. challenging conduct at management level will not be solved either. There, the defense has worked a lot on reporting lines to make sure that the information comes to the leaders – that it is not only being solved at a lower level, but that it is actually being lifted to deal with these problems – and you are working all the way through all parts of the education system, from the lowest degrees to the highest level educations, with precisely these questions. We're going to train future leaders in Defense, and they're going to have to have this under the skin.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e288	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e291	Women thrive in Defense, and I know that the Council of State is working very systematically to get more women to serve first time. However, with regard to this matter with the soldier who was ordered to bathe naked, it has been found that the order did not act contrary to the law. I think these are young people, and there is a need for clear rules. It is not always enough to say that you should have ordering lines and work with attitudes. Don't we need rules for what's right and wrong? Why does the government say no to a regulation in which we prohibit the command of guardians of different sexes to bathe naked together?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e296	Let me just spend a little time recapitulating the matter. It dates back to 2011, and it was a command that was ordered to be punished by the Defense precisely for this action. He ordered two women in a larger coal to bathe naked. This was part of a practice situation, and what happened afterwards was that the command said this was incorrect, and in two rounds an independent complaint subject dealt with the matter. In the second round, they found that no penalty could be imposed, and there were several reasons for this. That being said, military commanders can continue to punish negligent and willful acts that violate military service obligations. It will, as in the past, be a concrete overall assessment of whether or not one can do so in the specific situation. So if a similar situation should arise again, there will be a concrete assessment of whether it will be the basis for punishment or not. I think that is important, because in addition to working with the legislation, we have to work on the things that are needed to avoid this happening again, and both the head of defense and I have been very clear that no one has to bathe naked against his will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e303	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e307	The Council of State and I in Stortinget have had a common commitment to female protection for a long time. It is good and important that the entire population has the same rights and obligations in defence of the country. Then everyone must also feel welcome and treated in the Defence. I want to follow up on the question from Huitfeldt. Like Huitfeldt, I don't doubt the involvement of the Council of State or sincere efforts to fight sexualized harassment in the Defense, when it should happen. But I didn't feel that the Council of State completely answered the question from Huitfeldt. If it is the case that uncertainties arise in the public about this specific matter that has been raised and about the legislation, why can't the Council then only take the initiative in clarifying the legislation so as to avoid similar incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e314	It will always be that any legislation, any instruction, will be lacking in the sense that one can never catch up with all situations. That is precisely why the legislation today is such that even if there has been no explicit prohibition in an instruction, punishment can be imposed if the specific situation suggests that it should be done. There's a way to capture new situations, things you haven't thought of, which can be grounds for imposing punishment even if it's not in an instruction or in a code. Both the Chief of Defense and I have been very clear in our statements about this. It is also important to stress that the most important job you do is to avoid this kind of thing happening. You're going to use discretion, you're going to use the common sense. I feel that the command in Defense does, and I feel that our soldiers do. They have a high level of reflection, and it is an important contribution to developing attitudes and leadership across the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e321	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e324	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Unemployment in Norway is rising. An increasing number of families are affected by leave. Mom, Dad, or both lose their jobs. It is dramatic for those affected. Norway has every opportunity to put in place measures to reduce unemployment. But for some reason, the government has a lack of will or ability to use cyclical policies. The center part is of the opposite view. When unemployment increases in a number of industries, we believe in the Centre Party that a policy must be in place to counteract unemployment in the short term. We have unsolved jobs in Norway, and we have free labour. We have to let people go to work rather than go to Nav, and to deal with an extraordinary situation, an extraordinary effort is needed. We have heard a lot about a so-called package of measures, which is supposed to be 4 billion. kr. We have on several occasions asked what the status of the package of measures is. What kind of measures does it contain, and how large is it now? So we don't get an answer from the government. They say it's 4 billion. kr, but when we ask to see the four billion, that's not possible. What we know is that for the construction industry, it was originally half a billion for extraordinary maintenance in the municipalities. It was first reduced to 200 million. NOK, and then NOK 0, so there's no communication department in this country, in any department, that can get NOK 0 to be a cause for pleasure for unemployed craftsmen. The size expects a response to what is in the action package. State councils have been ready for 4 billion. kr, and that it is now being rolled out. So my question is, will the Storting know exactly what the extraordinary measures are in the package of measures, and whether they add up to 4 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e337	The package of measures is about 4 billion. kr. This means that the measures announced in the State budget have changed somewhat in the context of the supplementary number, but the additional number, i.e. the asylum situation, also creates employment. Last week I heard about a producer of beds in the South – Sørlanden is a part of the country that is struggling in these times – that has received a lot of orders, because asylum recipients need beds. So quite concretely, a number of things happen. I suggest that the representative go to Doffin and look at the tenders that are now being sent out, from the Defence Department, from health companies, from the knowledge and university sectors, in a number of areas – for construction, for rehabilitation. We're going to do a lot of important work, and we're going to create jobs quickly. However, it is also important to say that Norway is in transition. We have to make sure that companies are cleaned up to meet the future. Therefore, the long-term measures in the State budget are also a historical commitment to transport. Of course, it gives jobs to a lot of craftsmen and engineers, but it's about creating better business visibility. Reduced taxes are about bringing down the cost level and getting it harmonised with the countries we compete with. And we have a historical focus on knowledge and innovation in the higher education and university sectors, but also industrial instruments, so that existing companies and new businesses get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e344	Governments themselves have defined what a package of measures is meant to be, on page 12 of their budget. It states that the measures should be temporary and designed in such a way that they can be easily reversed. Then it is a little strange that we now hear that the asylum inflow is part of such a package. It is as strange as when the Minister of Finance writes to Stortinget and points to temporary measures, which are increased apprentice grants and seed funds to get an amount of 4 billion. kr. It seems here that the government looks into the budget and finds items equal to $4 billion. kr. But we ask to see these 4 billion – will the Council of State contribute to it? Is this measure up to 4 billion? Is it temporary, targeted at the most-needed areas of the country, and is it designed so that they can be easily reversed, in line with what the government itself defined as its package of measures? Or is 4 billion. kr just something that's in the government's head?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e349	I do not know where the misunderstanding has arisen, but it is true that we presented a government budget with a package of measures of 4 billion. kr, measures that can be taken quickly and rapidly and that can also be scaled down rapidly when justified. So that's how some changes happened. So we had to promote an additional number because of a large influx of asylum. Then there were also changes to the package of measures. But what we're saying is that the influx of asylum and its consequences also provide jobs. That must be the point, not what you call it, but that it actually gives jobs quickly, and we see that the effect of the asylum flow is also doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e356	There will be follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e359	We now receive daily reports on increasing unemployment. New measures are taking place, spreading in more industries than petroleum. At the same time, we learn that there are very few job vacancies, so we are facing a dramatic situation for a lot of families around the country. Governments and others from the government have referred to an action package of 4 billion. kr, but as the previous speaker pointed out, it was cut, among other things. $0.5 billion. kr in the maintenance of buildings, one-off grants for the maintenance and rehabilitation of school and care buildings. On the road, much of what went on renewal was cut – instead of the 200 million. NOK which was to be renewed, it was a cut of 90 million. kr. And maintenance of the highway network of 340 million. Instead, kr became a cut of more than 200 million. kr. Ergo, there's a pretty big cut in the 4 billion. kr as provided. Can the Council of State believe that seeing such a large cut is a good package of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e364	There is no doubt that the government's proposal for a government budget and a 4 billion package of measures. kr the government wanted to adopt in Stortinget, but it is that we got a very serious asylum influx that had to be managed and that has a cost side. This must be taken seriously by the government, which is why an additional number was promoted. But as I have said, large parts of the package of measures are standing firm and are now in the process of being realised, and so are we getting more employees, more in work as a result of the influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e369	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e373	There is no doubt that what was proposed by the government was significantly changed in Stortinget. I think it's very creative to call these things as subsidies to the Steinerskole music line, animal police in Stavanger and international bicycle ride in Norway for active labour market measures, and. that's where the changes came in the Storting. But it's a very serious situation. So now we have more time off than 20 years. We've passed countries like Germany on leave, and it's time for the government to take it seriously. It's a challenging situation, but that's exactly why it's important that we meet it with tools. The state councils had earlier been involved in the law on permitting, and said it had increased last summer. The truth is that the government started its government period of government cutting off the law of the permit, while notifying them of increased leave. Now we're back where the government started. Since there are a number of rapporteurs from Mr More and Mr Romsdal here, can they be allowed to go home and tell the shipbuilding industry that has now been hit, that the Council of State is willing to look at the legislation on the lay-offs, as the industry itself says is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e382	Yes, it is that the permitting rules were changed when we joined. These are changes that previous governments have also made when there has been a basis for it, and that was so. Then we expanded the scheme last summer because we saw an increasing unemployment. This is the case with permitting rules that you can't change them for individual industries or individual businesses, you have to do it in general. We need mobility in the labour market. We need people who lose their jobs to find new jobs. It's not like everyone who loses their job is going back to the companies where they're being demolished. A lot of people don't come back to the companies. Then it will be to give false security to extend the permitting regimes, because what we know is that people who are outlawed are not actively looking for work. And we need people to be active, that we have mobility, and that as much as possible get a new job as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e389	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e392	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Transport. In times of increasing unemployment, the use of increased labour force and increased public investment in areas that can generate lasting increases in value has been a commonly used public strategy. Although there has been a strong increase in new construction and maintenance both on the road and on the road over the last two to three years, Norway has continued to lag behind investment in infrastructure. This applies both to new installations and to maintenance. Now when we see that the numbers of leave are approaching 5 pst. - maybe 6 pst. – in parts of the country during 2016, how does the Council of State view an even greater increase in the budget allocated to it for 2016, adding to increased investment in new and old infrastructure to counteract the increase in our country’s unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e399	There is no doubt that the transport sector is very well suited to employing people quickly, because many maintenance and renewal projects do not need many years of planning, but can be started as soon as the money is there. That's exactly why the government has proposed, and together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to increase the maintenance budgets as strongly as we have. In 2011, 2012, 2013 and in the 2014 red-green proposal, the maintenance and renewal budget was flat at around 5 billion. kr. In 2016, it's over 9 billion. kr. So just there you have a package of $4 billion. kr more than what was usual. In addition, money has been moved. It is true, as the Minister of Industry also pointed out, that money was transferred internally in the budget in the budget agreement. But it's not less employment if you take a little bit of money away from maintenance and provide them with racial protection, as the Christian People's Party did. There will be no less employment if you take some money from normal road maintenance and rather build cycle paths, as left got out. The employment effect of those money movements is not a reduction, but they go into slightly different areas. Today’s majority have been given a strong commitment overall to the transport sector, which also increases employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e406	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e409	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The price of oil in relation to the price of salmon that we now experience stands in many ways as a symbolic event for the conversion we are in, which is also confirmed by the Minister of Finance in Today's Business, where she says that we are going to something new, and that the production of oil and gas will fall faster than expected. Now the Minister of Industry is neither responsible for oil nor fish, but she manages a number of instruments, from research to innovation Norway, Investinor and Argentum, all of which are still investing much more in oil and gas than in the new and renewable. My question is therefore as follows: How will the Minister of Industry contribute to stimulating new industries and what we will live on in the future, through the instruments under her department?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e418	Just to be clear: Norway is going to live a long time off with oil and gas, and very many people are going to work in that sector. That is why it is right to invest as well as to research and develop in oil and gas as well. But it is that we need new jobs, and therefore one of the most important things we do now, to ensure that more people establish their own business with growth ambitions. We need new jobs that pay taxes and create values. Every job we lose in the oil and gas sector creates values for between 8 and 10 billion. kr. Valuable jobs need to be replaced and, therefore, entrepreneurial policy is so important. It's not going to be going to bet on the established, it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e423	Swear Elin Hansen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e426	With increasing unemployment, families are being thrown into uncertainty and a tough economic situation. Norway's position is weakened, and in the autumn we saw a government that chose to meet increasing unemployment by cutting its own unemployment action package, rather than setting the pace. It's getting more and more urgent now. In the past, both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry have talked about the importance of rapid action, and municipalities are areas where this is possible. Does the Council of State think it wise to cut off hundreds of millions of dollars on employment measures in municipalities at a time of increasing social unrest and unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e431	I'm a little surprised at the question. This is how the government has adopted an expansive budget. It is that the government spends more money in the budget than the opposition wanted. It is also the case that the government put on the table a package of measures that was larger than the opposition actually suggested. So it's like the government's contributing more actively than the opposition wanted. It's really not a question of wanting or wanting, we have to take responsibility for the situation we're in and were in, we have to deal with a refugee situation, but it also provides jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e437	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e440	My question goes to the Minister of Industry, again. Episode 2 is now part of the TV series "The Founders" at NRK. The background for the series is that as many as half a million Northmen carry on a dream of starting for themselves and testing out an idea. The series is simply about what it's all about for more people who have an idea to translate it into concrete initiatives and not least have the courage to create a job for themselves and others. In a time when there is a need for change and increasing unemployment, Norway really needs more people to realize the entrepreneurial dream, as we had been talking about here in the past. Recent data from the SSB show that the number of unemployed with university education increased by 13 pst. from November 2014 to November 2015. This is especially true for Rogaland, where the unemployment rate has doubled in this group. But also in other states along the coast – including my own, More and Romsdal – one sees a similar development. Our common challenge is to facilitate the use of the highly skilled workforce that now loses its job in order to create a green shift and create new businesses and jobs where old people disappear. The government has presented a founding plan. That's good. However, the plan lacks measures in essential areas, for which an overall increase has asked the Minister of Industry and the Government, namely a review of the framework conditions of individual enterprises, such as fiscal conditions, social rights, simplification measures, access to capital and the arrangements of the public agency, and efforts to subsequently promote concrete proposals for improvements. So the question is, when can we expect concrete suggestions for improvement when, among other things, do the tax conditions and social rights apply to entrepreneurs and individual enterprises, for which an aggregate increase has been requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e455	The questioner and I fully agree on the importance of getting more entrepreneurs, and I repeat especially entrepreneurs with growth ambitions. We need someone who can and dares to create many jobs to replace the many jobs we are now losing in the oil and gas sector. As a result, from the day on, the government has put one bet on entrepreneurs, focusing on instruments to help more people both dry and start their own business. It is sad, but true that Norway has experienced a decline in the number of entrepreneurs in the last 10 years. So in good times we haven't prepared well enough for harder times. So let's do something about that. So it's true that there are a number of instruments that are related. I can assure you that there are simplifications that benefit entrepreneurs and small businesses all the time. It shall include, inter alia: set up an expert committee to look at the Share Act. That's like 77 pst. of the ASs have fewer than four employees, and 93 pst. has fewer than four owners. The point is that there are very, very many small limited liability companies, and it is important that we get a code that is also suitable for them. Then there's a job in other departments. When it comes to both taxation and social rights, as you know, the Ministry of Food and Fisheries is not responsible for it. But there is work in several departments to be able to deliver better conditions to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e464	I thank you for your answer. I agree that there have been several positive things in the last two years. In terms of understanding entrepreneurs and self-employed people: social rights have been improved – that is correct – but there is still a lot to be done. We have put in place a pre-seed scheme and new seed funds, and the government is going to come back with different tax incentives models. It's important and it's right that it's coming now. I dare say that all this comes into place thanks to the initiative, matters and pressure from the Left. My question is therefore: what new, concrete initiative will the Minister of Industry promote for increased entrepreneurial activity and a simpler everyday life for small businesses, so that they can move forward and establish more new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e471	I am pleased with the good cooperation with a majority on the Stortinget to put in place the best possible entrepreneurial policy. On the one hand, the government itself has proposed reinforcements, including: through the Founder's Plan, where we allocate 400 million. kr more this year than just last year for more entrepreneurs. Of course, it's still going to come up with proposals through budgetary work, but I think for my part that one of the most important things we can do now is just look at company law, at laws and regulations. It's complicated. The fact that you have a good idea doesn't mean that you know laws and rules, that you understand a business plan, that you know how things are piloted. We need networks, knowledge and simpler legislation that can meet entrepreneurs and small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e476	There will be follow-up questions – first Odd Omland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e479	Governments have been concerned with women's position in business, but what does the Council of State think about women entrepreneurs? While we are focusing on targeted schemes through the instrument to ensure women’s greater influence in the business world in terms of both Innovation Norway and Siva, the government has also established more general schemes in this area. In the opposition, the Right Party and the Advance Party believed that women's bets were to be left to the business community to a greater extent. The government has terminated the Sivas program Women's Innovation, which is targeting women's entrepreneurship. Can the Council of State elaborate on what the government will actually do to bring forward women entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e486	In the Founder's Plan presented in October, the commitment to women entrepreneurs is very clear. It's its own programmes, its own networks for women. We know that only one in four entrepreneurs is women. There is a longer-term situation, and it is clear that we must try to find measures that can help more women become entrepreneurs and start their own jobs. I have participated in, among others. Innovation Norway's union of this year's entrepreneurs. It's an important union because it brings out good role models. It is also an arena where female entrepreneurs meet and exchange experiences. Women may think differently than men, and therefore this type of network is very correct. There is no contradiction between investing in the nationwide schemes. It is not that the less geographically and thematically defined a scheme is, the more it hits. I believe in nationwide, general arrangements, which the whole country is invited to apply for. That's how we get the best ideas and the best projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e495	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e498	Yesterday we had over 100 entrepreneurs, social entrepreneurs, designers, business managers, volunteers and public innovators visiting here in Stortinget. The motto was ‘Good to Change’. Common to all of them is that they view migration in Europe and Norway as an opportunity and not a crisis. Several of them have already created a workplace for themselves and some more, like an immigrant. Product design is well known. Now comes the design of services. Together with the sharing economy and new technologies, it will grow a whole new industry and with the many new jobs. Some people call it remix, I think we have to switch to ‘nymix’. A theme that many promised yesterday was State contributions to innovation and entrepreneurial activity related to well-being and integration. How can we use new technologies more quickly to get the resources to find each other? One of the proposals was a major public tender in which municipalities, private and voluntary actors are challenged to compete for projects initiated and coordinated by the State. Does the Government have a business start-up plan related to service innovation and sharing economy in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e509	Yes. I am responsible for public procurement rules. There we've done a number of simplifications. We did that last year, but we now come with – I had almost said – a new law on public procurement. One of the things I want to achieve is a greater degree of innovation, a greater degree of diversity among those who can deliver to the public. There are today very rigid rules, some have called it a monster, and we have to do what we can to simplify, so that as much as possible can deliver to the public. Because it is clear that the government has great power in its annual purchases for about 430 billion. kr. This means many goods and services for private actors. We also have our own programmes, which we have also strengthened, which aim at creating innovation in public service offerings. So here it's happening a lot, and here it's going to have to happen even more to familiarize the new rules when they get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e517	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e520	It is an important focus on increasing unemployment, and it must be met on many fronts. I am pleased that the Left raises the question of how we can help entrepreneurs get started more easily, because the situation is different. There are many more people with high skills who have lost their jobs, and one knows that from many of the technology companies that now have to quit people, there is the possibility of new ideas, new businesses and even more jobs. But we get feedback that there are more people who are struggling with the Nav legislation, because when they have lost their job and want to start a business, they lose their daily allowance. The law says that there should be the possibility to start a business and receive a daily allowance in parallel. And it goes without saying that if you don't work in Statoil and get a good final package, it's more tempting to sit and receive the daily allowance, waiting to apply for a regular job than to start up your own business and lose the daily allowance. This is an example of legislation that is challenging for many. Is this something the Minister of Industry, in cooperation with the Minister of Labour, looking at, to ensure that we get the ideas out, so that businesses and new jobs are created?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e529	First of all, they are filling up the schemes in Innovation Norway, first of all, now it seems to work. In those areas of the country where unemployment increases most, the demand for innovation schemes in Norway is also high, and we saw in the autumn that innovation in Norway was running out. Then we did something about it, and that's a situation we need to evaluate continuously, because it's quite right that many wise heads could be able to create exciting businesses and new products and services. So it's like Nav has a system where you can apply to keep the daily allowance for nine months if you want to be a founder. Is that a good order? I think it's a scheme that's too little known, and I'm going to follow up with the Minister of Labour. The Prime Minister also announced in the Questionnaire last week that one should look at the length, i.e. if nine months were sufficient, and that one should expand it somewhat. There is something the Minister of Labour is looking at, and I will follow up on the questioner's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e536	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e539	Governments are changing rapidly today. One minute is that the package of measures is 4 billion. kr, the next moment is that the government wanted a package of measures of 4 billion. kr. It's confusing. But it's not just the state council that's going to change. Also many who become unemployed in Rogaland, want to change, start for themselves. Innovation Norway’s next commander in Rogaland was able to tell a total rogalands bench on 12 January that they have less money for establishing grants to entrepreneurs in 2016 than they had in 2015. In what way does the Minister of Industry think that the government is responding to the needs of Rogaland, with such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e546	It sounds very strange, as the government has increased the Norwegian Innovation Framework by several hundred million kroner. I cannot answer in terms of the distribution and the information that the queryer has received, but I can follow it up to the highest extent, because we have therefore allocated more – significantly more – money to Innovation Norway this year than they received last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e551	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e554	My question is to the Minister for Transport. The Mars Earth from the climate negotiations in Paris is that all countries have to go home and do more to cut emissions by 2020, and by 2030. But in the evening post on Monday, it emerged that Minister for Climate and Environment, Vidar Helgesen, will not promise a decline in greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years, thus proposing to break the Storting climate targets. What the climate minister says is: ‘Emission reductions over the next two years are not affected by decisions taken by this government.’ It is of course wrong, but let me take the statement for a moment seriously. His logic is as follows: Decisions taken by this government will primarily affect emissions well in advance. And in a lot of cases, this is right. Among other things, this is why we already have to stop investing in infrastructure that generates greenhouse gas emissions if we are to reach the zero-emission society in good time before 2050. In the evening, climate minister Helgesen refers to himself as a ‘air traffic abuser’ and says that he has a bad conscience for his flight. There he meets “spot on”, for the climate impact of Norwegian travel habits has been investigated by researchers at CICERO. Research shows that air travel accounts for more than half of the total climate impact of the journeys to the North. The first is that aircraft is the most polluting of the means of transport per passenger kilometre, and second, that we travel far when we travel by plane. Ta Gardermoen: In 2002, the airport had 13 million passengers, in 2014 it had increased to 24 million. Now the airport is being developed. But this is not enough for NHO Aviation, which wants to build a third in addition to today's two runways, so that traffic can grow more. Then I ask the Minister for Transport: does he think that the development of a third runway on the Gardermoen will help to increase or reduce greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e570	In the discussion on better environment and climate, we need to focus on continuing to have a transport sector in the country and in the world that works, that makes people mobile, because people go to and from work, because people like to travel and because people want to take advantage of cultural services – in so many ways. I suggest that the infrastructure we are building now, i.e. the physical road, rail, aviation and port infrastructure being built, will primarily be used by low-emission or zero-emission vessels. It's also true on our roads. Now we see a huge development of electric cars and low-carbon cars. When we sit and discuss ferry-free E39, when we're going to expand it, when we're going to expand E18, E6 and all the other ways, it's wrong to assume that fossil cars are running on them, when we see which way the world is going. But this is not going to be changed tomorrow, and that's what Vidar Helgesen points out. It's important to have a long-term strategy that makes one end up there. The same applies to the railway. We're going to electrify more lines, we're going to build out double tracks, we're going to get more take-offs. Already now there are over a hundred more departures from Oslo S compared to when Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås sat in government. It gives people a better alternative to not having to use individual passenger transport, but to travel collectively – and a better offer. We have quadrupled the appropriations for collective investment opportunities in Oslo, for example. And that also gives you better possibilities. In the case of electric car bets, it is for the very type of low-emission and zero-emission cars that we have passed on the tax advantages that have been, in addition to giving new tax advantages to ‘plug-in’ hybrid cars. As far as aviation is concerned: the climate minister and I are going to be at a big event on Friday at Gardermoen to mark that now you are starting to serve, to fill, biofuels for the airlines that want it. The same thing yesterday – I was there when Tine said that they are going to replace their car park so that they can have biofuels on all their cars. It has a CO2 effect, but not least it does something about urban air pollution. Then it's about choosing the good tools. If the result comes tomorrow or a year in time – the most important thing is to get business on the team, and to get most people on the team, so that the long-term results come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e586	I noticed that the Minister for Transport did not answer my question, whether he thought that an extension of a third runway on the Gardermoen would help to increase or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so I'm going to give him a new chance. But I feel that he does not take into account the reality here, that we must drastically reduce emissions from all rich countries if we are to have a chance to achieve the goal of not raising the temperature of the earth by more than 1.5 degrees, and that must happen quickly. It is good that the Minister of Transport looks at technological solutions that cut emissions from aircraft. It's just noticing that planes are more efficient than before, and it's good with biofuels to replace fossil fuels for aircraft, but it won't eliminate all emissions. That's because aircraft are different from other means of transport, because condensation strips and spring clouds formed by the condensation strips have a heating effect that is estimated to be equal to the CO2 emissions. Therefore, renewable fuels will not take us all the way to the target. That is why I ask again: what will the Minister for Transport do if he wants to reduce the volume of air traffic? What are alternative measures to reduce the volume of air traffic, if more runways are developed on the Gardermoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e598	I gave in my first answer a very good overview, I mean myself, about how the future vehicle, including planes, is going to be. I didn't mention ships, but there we also see how hydrogen and electricity are increasingly used. But where biofuels, at least until now, were perceived as a climate-friendly fuel, even by SV, I see that this suddenly does not apply to air traffic. But by making sure that someone has other forms of energy, other types of engines in the vehicles, gets a largely eliminated CO2 problem from those vehicles, and so I think it is wrong to say that we should not build up physical infrastructure on the land just because today's vehicle poses a CO2 challenge. So it's implicit in the answer that when you get to use biofuels, and when you get even further on time on types of aircraft, climate challenges are not a problem in the same way. Therefore, it would be wrong not to expand a third runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e610	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e613	After all, if biofuels were a sufficient instrument to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the aviation sector, the government would not have imposed an aeroplane seat tax. It's in place for people to fly less and to abduct air abusers, as the climate minister would say. I know the Minister for Transport right, he doesn't want to stop people from travelling, he said that in his reply too. He'll do that right in. Environmental policy should be a combination of whip and carrot. I like more train departures. That is why I also want to ask the Minister for Transport a little more about it. A good alternative to aircraft, even on longer distances, is lightning. In order to strengthen the train’s competition against aeroplanes, it is clear that more new train sections need to be built for at least 250 km/h in order to be able to participate in a future high-speed train network. In Norway, there are three national routes that are on the European top 20 flight list, both Oslo-Stavanger, Oslo-Bergen and Oslo-Trondheim. My question is therefore: does the Council of State believe that lightning trains are a good alternative to weaning aircraft abusers, or does the Council of State have other instruments in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e622	We are betting in many different areas. We have failed to make transport policy a choice of either road or rail, of either city or country. We focus more on all these areas because one needs different solutions in different areas. People also have different travel needs. But I just mention that together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have increased the rail budget by over 50 pst. since the government change. That means it's 6 billion. kr more this year at the Railway Station now than it was in 2013. If we were to go down to the level that the national transport plan had set for railway operations, we would have to cut the rail budget by 2.5 billion. kr. I think it shows that we're betting more on the railways to give people that alternative. In addition, there is more collective effort in cities and the whole package there. But it's a little strange that SV pulls up lightning here as a separate argument when the previous government let away the lightning planes for which Hallgeir Langeland was an exponent. In that case, a take should be settled internally in your own camp before you begin to hang on to today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e627	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e630	I am well among those who will choose to characterize as an ‘air traffic abuser’, but it’s for the simple reason that other alternatives take too long. And some of us are going to be in that situation in the future as well. Our country is far, and it is demanding to build infrastructure that has such a capacity and that can travel so fast, that it can replace aircraft. I want to challenge the minister a little bit about biofuels and bio-fuels, because now we are facing the possibility of using bio-fuels. But it's important that it gets introduced quickly, and that we really do manage to set the pace of getting more airlines to use it. It is also important to get more electric ferries and to use low-emission or zero-emission technologies in both maritime and road transport. Does the Council see any possibility for us to initiate a faster deployment of the infrastructure needed to deploy the type of fuel and low-emission and zero-emission technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e639	With regard to the use of biofuels at aerodromes, Avinor has shown here that they are sitting in the driver’s seat and starting a job – not only do they start a job, but on Friday they will open the tanker to be able to offer it. So it's important to remember that we can't force an actor to use it, but we can stimulate and facilitate it. That's what one of them does. through the charging regime. Through Enova, work is ongoing on a wide range of areas to make alternative fuels available. However, the aim must be that the final market is for charging stations, biofuels, hydrogen and that kind of thing – not that everything should end with having a state-owned office that is somehow the gas station chain of the future. That's just how Enova works: they look at how they can get the market to take responsibility itself, but they contribute to a transition, for example. charging stations. We see that over the past few weeks, the debate on hydrogen has speeded up by the fact that some of the hydrogen-based companies have had good price developments on the stock exchange. It shows that investors too think this is an interesting market to jump into. That's the best of all, that the capital forces see that it's money to make use of alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e650	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e653	A large proportion of the traffic on Gardermoen is traffic between Gardermoen and the cities of South Norway. The community must change in a greener direction, and one of the most polluting is air traffic. We must therefore make it more attractive to use more environmentally friendly means of transport between our major cities. In the East we are now building an intercity system that expands the housing and working regions. The high-speed discussion is interesting, and the Council of State came so far into this in its reply to the representative Serigstad Valen, but I will bring it a little further: Does the Council of State see whether we could have helped to reduce the need for a third runway, and how does the Council of State and this government – in contrast to the previous government – plan for a high-speed rail system in the future between the major cities of Norway, so that in the future this could be the preferred travel option between the larger cities of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e662	There are several discussions that weave into each other: the fact that reducing travel time is important to the government, when we think about both road and rail and other alternatives, precisely because people are going to spend less time on transport and more time on destinations. In this respect, we want to focus on reducing the travel time on the 200 times a year, not the one you take once a year, in terms of commuting – i.e. the job trips that people take. This will have the most climate impact, the most environmental impact and the greatest time savings. But when we discuss the Gardermo, it is also important for me to stress that the Gardermo is more than a base for those who are going to Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. We want to develop the Gardermo to be a kind of Nordic 'hub' for people who are going between destinations too, so that if, for example. Asians are going to the U.S., I'd rather they landed on the Gardermo than on the continent. In that sense, a third runway will be important in order to provide a better offer. It is also simplified transfer and the entire package an important part of it. Then I also think it is good that Gardermoen turns out to be an environmental airport rather than someone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e669	Magne Rommetveit – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e672	I totally agree with what the Council of State says about the Gardermo as an important 'hub'. And for those of us who come travelling from all kinds of places in the country, Gardermoen is a place once in a while. But had not the Gardermo been there, and had not the Gardermo worked as well as that airport does, there are many of us who lived around the country, who had labored. I also think that when the T2 expansion that is currently in progress is done, it's going to be huge. The Council of State said that the charging system can help phase biofuels into aviation. My question then is: can it happen in such a way that we can avoid air passenger charges or seat charges – it is called a little different things? Could it be a better way – as the Council of State sees it – to improve the environment in the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e680	With regard to the fare for seats, there was a result of the budget negotiations in Stortinget. The finance minister is now working on this matter at the hearing, and then one from the hearing will see how that fee is to be handled further. The important thing is that you, for example: in the case of diesel cars, a tax advantage has been conferred on biodiesel, because the car diesel charge is quite high. This has led to biodiesel having a tax advantage of NOK 4.34, if I do not remember completely wrong. This is a strong incentive for urban truck transport to run on biofuels. It does something about both air quality and CO2 emissions. With regard to the debate we are now in, we have, for example: See that as we increased the number of take-offs on the Sørlandsbanen from four to seven up to Egersund, the Sørlandsbanen has actually acted more like a plane train to Gardermoen. The number of take-offs and tickets resolved between Egersund and Gardermoen has increased sharply after increasing the frequency of take-offs. It shows that people are busy having a functional and good travel day. They could have done as before, drove to the Sun and fled to the Gardermoen, but now they take the train to the Gardermoen and fly out into the world – and I admire them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e692	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e695	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Recently, the Minister of Defense gave a speech in Oslo Military Society – a speech in which she canceled the Right-wing election vows about more to defend and talked about changes within the framework set, and that the Minister of Finance cannot give her all the money she wants. Former Chief of Defense and Right-Friend Sverre Dien said about the speech that it was a defence policy retreat, and the Right-Friend Janne Haaland Matlary was no less strict in his characteristics and called it sad reading. The Minister of Defense promised hundreds of millions more to the Defense before the elections, and when she took over, she continued to raise expectations. In view of the security policy situation, she hastened the Military Professional Council of the Defence Manager and set up an expert group to look at what the Defense needs now. Every time I ask the Minister of Defense what her results are, she has two answers. One is that all that's wrong is the red-greens' fault. The second is that the share of the defence budget in the total state budget has increased below it as the Council of State. But everyone who has some knowledge of the defence budget knows that it's not about her being a budget winner, but that it's about all the money that's been allocated to fighter aircraft. It's expensive, it costs a lot of money. If the defence budget had not increased its share of the state budget, there would have been something serious wrong with all the aircraft purchased. So my question to the Minister of Defence is, When will the Minister of Defense begin to strengthen the Defence, as she has promised, and stop blaming his predecessors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e710	It would have been very pleasant, even for a government council, if the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee had been present in Oslo Military Society and heard both the post and the debate afterwards, as I think was very good. I have not stressed how the defence budget's share of the total budget or of GDP is. I've focused on the increases we've made. This has been absolutely necessary, because we are talking about decades of lag in maintenance, emergency stocks and operating budgets. It has not been linked to one particular government, but it is a reality that politicians over very many years have not paid for the defence they have ordered. I've been very clear on that, and unlike my predecessors, I've been honest and open that it's the state. And for that reason, we're now at a crossroads, where we can no longer use the method that many of my predecessors from different parties have used, that is to say, we're reducing the structure a little bit and a little bit, and in that way we're trying to find money to operate. It will lead to a reduction of the Defense, and I don't want that. That's right, as Huitfeldt's representative said, I've promised hundreds of millions, and I've also delivered hundreds of millions. In addition, I have provided a significant increase in the purchase of fighter aircraft. That is important, because if we do not grant additional funding for the acquisition of fighter aircraft, in line with what we have done, it will obviously go beyond other investment projects in the defence sector, and I do not think that is what Huitfeldt or I want. We want a defense that works, that's operational, and that can not least solve the assigned tasks it has. That is exactly why we have put a big effort in the 2016 budget for maintenance in the Maritime Defence, at approx. 300 million. kr. We've put a big stake in the Intelligence Service, in line with what the Chief of Defense wants. We have put in a bet to turn more of the operational activity to the north, for example. so that we can sail a submarine permanently from Ramsund, so that we can operate longer and more with our MPAs, which are Air Force maritime patrol aircraft. There are important contributions in hundreds of millions of dollars to enable us to run the operational business that we want the Defense to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e723	It is true that there have been increases in this year's budget. After all, the last year's budget was below the level of the long-term plan, and now it is at the level of the long-term plan. But the head of defense said at the Oslo Military Society seminar that what's new is what's called red tape, but that's actually a cut of almost 500 million. kr. It's a clean cut as a result of government policy. It's based on completely different principles than before. Before that, the defense cut money, it got money back for investments in submarines, aircraft and other modern materials. But this is extra cut. It's called red tape, but the defense all over the country notices it's wrong. Can't the Minister of Defense be honest enough – because she is – to admit that she hasn't got what she promised while she was on the Stortinget? There was something quite different than that level and it cut her here on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e728	I also had the pleasure of being present when the head of defense gave his lecture in Oslo Military Society this Monday. He pointed to many challenges. He also pointed to many of the things that go very well in the defense. In the case of red tape and efficiency gains, all ministries are responsible. It's on all floors. This means that the money is collected in a pot that includes: The defense has a good deal to do in the 2016 budget. This is important, because we are going to ensure that public activities are as efficient as possible at all times. That is why we have also helped to focus on new areas of defence where we know that there may be ways to pick them up to turn them into operational activity. During the long-term plan we are now in the last year of implementation, extra money has been granted, so that the assumptions are over-filled with both the Naval Defence, Air Force and Intelligence. It's based on conscious choices the government has made. That is why we have also strengthened the operational activity, and I believe that in the phase we are now, it is important that we use the funds as much as possible for operational activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e737	It opens for follow-up questions – first Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e740	The so-called red tape measures are for other concepts that did not exist at the beginning of 2013, but will thus lead to 490 million defence during 2016. kr less than that in the long-term plan. When the Council of State was representative Eriksen Soreide, she said that contrary to the then government, she and the Right in opposition were willing to pay 600 million. Extra kroner. Now right-wing politician Janne Haaland Matlary calls the Minister of Defence’s speech ‘a very gloomy signal in which almost no media have taken seriously’. When's the Right to deliver? Where did it come from? When will the willingness to deliver to the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e745	It is also the duty of any Council of State to talk about realism in the assumptions that surround us. As the representative Nybakk well knows, both the economic challenges, the migration flows and the oil price are contributing to the framework conditions around not just the defence, but any sector, looking different now than just a few months ago. But even in that landscape, we have focused on strengthening the budgets by 9.4 p.m. for 2016. This is a very large increase. We have also increased last year by approx. 3.3 pst. I want to remind you that in the eight years we had before us, there was a real decline in four of the eight years of red-green budgets. I also find it strange that if care for both red tape and other measures is so strong, why has the Labour Party not invested considerable money in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e752	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e755	I record that the Minister of Defense is continuing to owe the red-green government for everything that is bad and difficult. The Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen recently said in an interview with TV 2 that it is not possible to meet the expectations of today's government about more operational activity and greater preparedness. He pointed to the efficiency improvement that has been made, and said, "This year, the hardest thing I have ever experienced." Of all the defenses of his duties, it is now the defence of Norway that is the most important thing, he also firmly stated. It could have been taken out of the Center Party’s program – we have always repeated that it is the defence of Norwegian territory that must be given priority. In Oslo Military Society, Bruun-Hanssen called for a reduction in the foreign mission, saying that they are spread in too many places. Is the Minister for Defence agreed on the assessments of the Chief of Defense? Will she now concentrate on the defence of the Norwegian territory and reduce the foreign mission? And I want to repeat the question from the Labour Party: When will the Right come with the great promise for the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e767	There is no doubt that there is a challenging economic situation in Defence. It's been for years. It's not about blaming for predecessors. I said in my reply to Anniken Huitfeldt that there are several decades to go back in time, and that is a sum of the fact that politicians over time – from all governments – have not been willing to pay for the defence they have ordered. It hits all politicians. It has been thought that methods other than those that have been necessary to finance the defence that is. The Chief of Defense also said something about this in Oslo Military Society, but it is important to remember that he points to what is also the risk factors for 2016, i.e. potential fluctuations, for example. as a result of exchange rates, which have not yet occurred but which may occur. It also means that they can avoid entering if the situation develops differently. It's important to be aware that there's something of what the head of defense is looking at, and that we're also following very close months a month. In terms of foreign missions, much of our point has been to concentrate the assignments we are in, to at least one place in each country. It's important, because it requires a lot of support to be present in several places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e776	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e788	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e801	‘It is quite common that there will be a long wait and a lot of queue at the medical guards at major festivals. This happened at the doctor's in Bærum this space Christmas. One of the reasons seems to be that several fixed doctors were not available; they had vacations. This has unfortunate consequences for the operation of the medical officer and the acutely ill patients who experience very long waiting times there. What can local authorities do to ensure that medical assistance is available in the days around the major festivals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e813	It is important to have a good and accessible emergency response when needs arise — among other things. at major festivals. The municipality is responsible for ensuring that persons staying in the municipality receive the necessary health care. This includes, inter alia: having a system that provides immediate assistance throughout the day. It is also the responsibility of the municipality to organise both fixed medical and medical care services within and outside the opening hours of fixed medical centres. To discharge this responsibility requires good municipal management of the medical officer. Local conditions are different, and it is a prerequisite that the municipality sees and plans its sub-services together. The decision-makers are key actors both because they are expected to participate in medical care and because the individual supervisor is responsible for immediate assistance to its own list-holders during office hours. Determined obligations to have collegiate absence arrangements to cover short-term absences. The municipality has two main tools to plan the resources of the decision-makers: one is the individual fixed-term contracts, where both opening hours and medical care can be agreed, and the other is the local cooperation committee, the LSU, where the municipality and the local authorities have dialogue on the operation of the fixed-term scheme. It would be natural for a medical officer to be a theme of these meetings. The medical profession shall handle acute events that cannot wait until the next day. The availability of fixed doctors’ offices is of great importance for the attendance of the medical officer — depending on whether or not they have sufficient capacity in the hourly-same-day offer and whether or not the residents use it. When planning medical care, the municipality shall be based on a risk and vulnerability analysis. The ROS analysis shall include possible scenarios, including the absence of permanent doctors at holidays and festivals, and seasonal variations in morbidity, such as: flu epidemics. The ROS analysis must also include the need for the necessary rear guard systems. It is by ensuring these assessments and their consequences that the municipality can ensure the necessary capacity in the immediate assistance offer to the inhabitants of the municipality, even at major festivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e828	It has come to light that many are quite frustrated when they are in line waiting a long time, perhaps with little children, and nothing is happening, and that there are obviously problems on some medical guards with staffing in the holidays. But what might really be the main problem is that the fixed medical system doesn't work as well as you want, and that we've added up to everyday life, even though the tenets have an obligation to have an open or temporary period. Experience also shows that many patients wait too long, some say, among other things. The Hospital of Eastfold, in the Christmas season, to see a doctor because of the things we are talking about, and so they get very sick before they get help, among other things. this heart disease. I wonder if State Council Höie can elaborate a little on whether he has any idea of how big this problem really is, and whether there is something you should do to prevent this happening repeatedly every Christmas and New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e837	There's a little bit of different issues that the representative here is dealing with. There are more general challenges with the medical care system and the fixed medical system, and with the high-end Christmas challenges. I think that the Christmas season challenges are something that one must first of all solve locally and safely, and be aware that at that time there are many permanent agencies that are not open, thus increasing the pressure on the medical clinics, and that one locally plans it well. Then it is quite right that it is also such that there is reason to believe that many are looking for the medical officer in cases where they should have sought out their doctor, and that the prescribers must become more accessible. It is also a responsibility that the municipalities have and must work with, together with the permanent doctors, through the cooperation arrangements that are established. Then we are also working to establish better quality and standard on the medical watch system. There we have just received the recommendations of the Olsen Committee which have now been sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e846	The last question is what patients can do. What is your recommendation if you feel frustrated by this situation, both by waiting a long time for the doctor and by your own regularity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e851	If you are frustrated by your own firmness, it's easy: then you go into healthnorge.no and change your firmness if you have a chance to do so. That's the most radical thing you can do. But you can also give notice if you are dissatisfied with the availability of your decision maker, initially to the decision maker and ask for improvements there. We have now also established a common national medical watch number that makes the medical officer more accessible. I would also recommend that one not only go directly to the medical officer, but that one call in advance, examine and ask for advice. Very often, you will be able to get answers there to the questions you have, and you may, for example: also get advice on when to come that one is not coming exactly when it is the longest waiting time. So it's also the case that the doctor has a responsibility to prioritize his patients, and sometimes we who are patients need to be patient because there are others who are sicker and need help before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e869	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e876	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘The Minister of Justice and Security has often said that there has been a large increase in the number of police officers and has given particular attention to visible police in the neighbourhood. At the Greenland police station in the inner east of Oslo, I was recently informed that there are 17 fewer police officers than before. Can the Council of State indicate how many police officers are now working at each of the five police stations in Oslo, how large is the increase compared to 2014, and how he will ensure that increased appropriations and greater coal at the Police College will really provide more visible police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e885	Let me first thank the representative for the question, whom I have presented to the Police Directorate, who has again submitted to that management in the Oslo Police District. The management of the Oslo Police District reports that by 31 December 2014, they had 996 employees at the five police stations in Oslo. On 31 December 2015, Oslo Police District informed that the number was 990 employees. At the Greenland Police Station, the number of employees at the end of 2015 was four fewer than at the end of 2004, according to Oslo Police District. At the end of 2015, new jobs were put in place that will in future increase the number of employees at the stations. Oslo police districts state that Felleskrim has been given increased resources in 2015, which is a major remedy for the situation in relation to the conduct of interrogations and the completion of criminal proceedings. In particular, Greenland Police Station. In addition, in the autumn of 2015, Oslo Police District has employed several officials working on production in Oslo Thing House. These greatly reduce the need for deposits from the five police stations, contributing to several uniformed patrols for operational purposes. In 2015, the Oslo Police District was allocated budget funds to 80 new police posts with effect from 1 July 2015 and seven new prosecutors with effect from 1 May 2015. Oslo Police District will continue to be in a special position compared with the other police districts, for example. due to the size, scale of crime, capital challenges and responsibility for national security and preparedness tasks. One of the targets is visible and available to the police in the strategic plan of the police district for 2016–2019. This includes, inter alia: a permanent readiness of resources to deal with serious incidents, near-police in places and at times when crime is committed experientially, immediate investigation in order to ensure efficiency and quality, cooperation with private and public actors in order to increase the security of nightclubs and meeting places and efforts and presence in the open drug setting. I want to add that if we include the 2016 budget, we have added up to 1,054 new police posts since the government change. There is a significant increase, as well as a focus on the prosecution authorities — both the police and the higher prosecution authority — to strengthen the ability of the police to investigate and follow-up and, of course, to be out and visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e898	I thank the Council of State for a useful and good answer. The main figures for the Oslo station have ranged from 996 police in 2014 to 990 in 2015. It says something about the problem I've registered when I'm around the stations, that when, as the Council of State said, here at the Stortinget, we now grant 80 pay bags to the Oslo police district – it's been between the last few years, all the way back to 2010, it's between approx. 50 and 70–80 pay bags per year — then it comes down to deductions that they are not fully financed in respect of operations. The Directorate of Police is holding back $100,000 of each pay bag before it goes out. There is no money to fully cover up the tour and overtime or to cover interpretation costs, electronic tracks – the work on it – protective equipment, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State if he can look more closely at whether they are actually fully funded, the positions we grant pay bags to from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e903	The starting point is that these posts are fully funded, and then there are some joint services that the Police Directorate has taken over from the police districts, which make them probably hold back some funds. However, it is obviously important that the positions to which we propose the allocation of funds, and to which the Stortinge grant money, should actually lead to growth in the number of posts. Unfortunately, the situation in the budget is generally under pressure even in the police. A number of measures funded under the police’s budget framework have beenimplemented, as well as a red tape and streamlining of processes, which also means that they are noticed in the police districts. But since the government change, we've actually had a growth in the police budget of 2.2 billion. kr. There is a significant commitment to the police, and there is no doubt that we are now getting much more for the resource effort than what we received earlier. Among other things, the percentage of clarification has now increased by more than 3 percentage points since the government change, so there is a lot of positive in the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e908	Thanks again for the additional response. In particular, there is one area on which the Council of State has focused and on which I fully agree that we should focus, namely the visible police. It's the law departments at these stations that are in particular the visible ones running around patrols, which are in the neighbourhoods, and which are the ones that create the security of everyday life. I've tried to investigate how developments have been in each station with regard to the visible police in the law departments, and there the figures that I've got, which have been obtained together with the Oslo Police Association, from each station, show that, for example. in Greenland, the decline in the Orders Department, if you take the run from 2010 to 2015, where there has been a steady decline, is 22.9 pst. And they say that the budget framework they've been given for this year is calling for a new decline. Floors have e.g.: had a decrease corresponding to 17.8 pst. in its administrative department during the same period. I'm not saying this just came in this period, but it's come year after year. I would like to ask the Council of State if he would also like to earmark funds for the visible police in order to obtain the effect of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e913	I can't imagine that, and that's because we're more concerned with the results that are given than with how a concrete person disposes of the funds. We are concerned that they will deliver on the results we require, and detailed police management is done. We have gone from 52 to 10 targets for the police and have cleared up the target structure and continue to so far with follow-up of control parameters etc. And I think it's important that the police minister in each and every police district is responsible for making the best possible use of those resources to follow up the clear political leaders given both by the Stortinget and by the government and me as the Council of State. That's kind of the result at the other end we're going to be concerned about, and if you look at the results in Oslo, now you see that they're very good. There's a dramatic reduction in theft, there's been a dramatic decrease in number, there's been a number of changes that have led to a decrease in the processing time, and a more efficient use of resources, and a greater return on the results side. I think that's very good, but the prerequisite for doing that is that the chief of police is actually responsible for disposing of the resources correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e929	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e936	I would like to begin by welcoming the Council of State to the Stortinget, even if it does not happen with a full house and a stormy cheer. ‘The size has led to increased food production on Norwegian resources as a basis for agricultural policy. How will the Council of State provide agriculture that uses as much of the resources we have for food production as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e945	Let me then thank the representative Pollestad for the invitation and the opportunity to make their debut here in Stortinget. The government wants to improve food production. The basis for this is that the agricultural area is used in a good way. Animal feed of about 90 pst is produced. of the agricultural area in our country. And besides that, we have large pastures. I am happy to see that there is optimism in agriculture, among other things. among the sheep producers. There is now market coverage in Norwegian sheep meat, after many years of undershooting. This allows us to make better use of the Norwegian pastures than before. There are a lot of resources in pasture, and when Nortura now reports access of 70000 more lambs than two years ago, this means that they have grazed before Nortura has received them. That's a good indication that we're making good use of resources. Norway is a grassland, with limited potential for producing plant crops with a lot of energy directly for food for humans. When we look at roughage and forage, about 80 pst. of the feed for the animals produced in Norway. Cereal is an important raw material in co-feed, but it must be supplemented by protein-rich crops. Agriculture always has to import raw materials into the feed to obtain the required quality. We have had little Norwegian production, especially after it was forbidden to use meat-and-bone meal and fish meal in the power feed. I'm glad that those who are developing feed are getting more and more involved in making prescriptions that increase the performance and productivity of the feed. It is necessary for this work to continue, even if we also need to import now. In many areas, we have to deal with the outside world and import goods that we cannot produce ourselves. Norwegian farmers have at all times imported different operating methods. At the same time, the feed demand for Norwegian livestock is a major market for Norwegian feed producers. A lot of research and development is still needed here. The productivity of the area needs to be increased and extensive research is needed in order to exploit the resources that are also in the sea for the production of feed. Increased efficiency and competitiveness, both in agriculture and in the food industry, are necessary to increase Norwegian food production. Then it is central to give the farmers the opportunity to use new technology and to use the resources on their garden as best they can. It's my job to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e958	I would like to thank you for your answer and stress that Stortinget has said that increased food production will take place on the basis of Norwegian resources. Norwegian agricultural policy must relate to what Norway looks like. We need a policy based on increasing food production on Norwegian resources. We can't do that in the long term by just focusing on making the big uses bigger. Then we need small, medium-sized and large-scale applications. It can't be that one has to be big to invest and renew the farm, because if we get a development where the big uses are modern, and the small and medium-sized are not, it will over time weaken the basis for investing in Norwegian resources. We need an agricultural policy that takes account of Norway's diversity, and we need external frameworks, solid agricultural settlements and customs protection. Does the Minister for Agriculture agree with such a description?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e963	Agriculture in Norway has always been frequent. I believe that there is a basis for it to continue. Someone's investing in big, new uses. Other developers are based on the resources they have available, and we will see more of these developments in the years to come. We should also remind ourselves that part of the initial investment actually taking place in agriculture is fundamentally positive. But it happens in new technology, it happens because it wants to exploit its area better than before, and it also provides structuralization. It's going to continue even during the period I'm the Council of State. That's what I think Norwegian agriculture is good at. Then there are many side elements in the discussion, which are that the agricultural development of the individual garden is primarily directed by the individual farmer who disposes of these resources. We see a lack when it comes to how well to use those resources, and it will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e968	Although the state council today debuts as a state council in Stortinget, he has previously met as an alternate. On 16 June 2011, the current Council of State took part in the debate on the agricultural settlement. He then regretted that five farmers in More and Romsdal did not have the opportunity to start egg production in co-operation, with almost 40,000 hens, but had to deal with the concessional limit of 7 500 hens. Does the Council of State still insist that it will be the ‘joyful madness’ not to allow co-operation in egg production, or can we expect this type of proposal in the years to come? Or does the Council of State realize that part of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party does not tolerate the meeting with reality and the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e975	I saw so much in 2011, among other things. I said that the centre party had to stop judging the situation that was in the Norwegian agricultural industry, and that one had to address some of the challenges there. One of the challenges facing this government is the basis for Norwegian lamb production. With the changes we've made in the last two years, we've actually managed to achieve market coverage. There's clear evidence that new thoughts actually give results. I'm going to keep going on with that. When it comes to the need to continue developing, simplifying, modernising and facilitating those who want to develop their production, I can confirm that it is my ambition to contribute to the simplification process, to help remove unnecessary obstacles to those who want to produce food in Norway. That's what we're going to discuss many times in the future, because this government has as a policy to contribute to simplifications that give rise to food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e984	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-20.ana.ud868e997	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
