ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e82	From 30 May to 2 June, the right of the authorised representative, Mr Ingerd Schou, is notified to the Court of Justice that the period from 30 May to 2 June is hereby amended to run only on Monday 30 May. – This message is taken into account. The representative Ingerd Schou, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Irene Johansen from 31 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the care leave of the representative Torgeir Micasen on 31 May and 1 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the goods, of the Buskerud County of Laila Gustavsen and of the Eastfold County of Wenche Olsen, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e123	Wenche Olsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Rommetvei, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e128	On behalf of Else-May Botten, Ingrid Heggø, Odd Omland, Karianne O. Tong, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Tone-Helen Toften and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to facilitate autonomous vehicles and ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e133	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e136	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the safe management of radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e157	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to six lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from the members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e168	Initially, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the parties for a good cooperation on this tax reform. I am pleased to present that a broad majority is behind the main lines of government tax reform and also agree on a number of points that I will come back to. This majority applies to all parties other than SV, and for the sake of order, I would also point out that the Greens are not part of this tax settlement either, but they are not, as you know, represented in the Financial Committee. The tax message we have today for treatment was promoted in parallel with the state budget for 2016 last autumn. The Committee has spent some time examining it and working towards a broad consensus. Tax is an important instrument for obtaining income to finance our welfare society, but tax is also an important framework for business and for us as individuals and taxpayers. We know that tax is a powerful tool that stimulates different types of behavior. Predictability is therefore important for both business and individuals. This implies a security of framework conditions which will remain firm even if the political majority had to change in future elections. I am pleased that the parties have recognised the importance of predictability and have extended their discussions in order to find good compromises together. Norway, as is known in a situation of high unemployment in parts of the country — mostly due to low oil prices and lower levels of investment in the country’s largest sector, namely the petroleum sector. We need to create many new jobs to compensate for the loss, both in terms of the number of jobs and in terms of value creation and tax revenue. A good and competitive tax system contributes positively to this transformation. There is a broad consensus on continuing the important principles of our tax system from the 1992 reform, with a broad tax base, relatively low rates and a high level of non-discrimination between different investments, forms of financing and activities, as well as the symmetric treatment of income and costs. It is important to maintain and, if possible, strengthen the efficiency and symmetry characteristics of our tax system. It must be stressed that the broad political consensus is primarily about the tax system, not the overall level of taxation. There will still be considerable disagreement between the parties that will tax more and the parties that will create more and tax less. Tax is not a goal in itself, but it's a means. We know that tax works. This means that through this tax reform and this tax settlement, we send important signals in a direction that should encourage increased investment in Norway, to work and to change. The background to the tax reform we are dealing with today is, in particular, two aspects: Recognising that capital, activity, resources and people are easily moved across national borders in an increasingly globalised world, it is important that we have a level of taxation for companies that are competitive. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that the tax base itself is not eroded by moving values out of Norway by multinational companies. The previous government therefore set up a tax sample, the Scheel Committee, to look at these issues, and the sample delivered its NOU, Capital Taxation in an international economy, in 2014. This NOU was sent to the hearing and has been an important contribution to the design of the tax communication that is being addressed today. I am pleased that a broad political majority agrees that corporate tax in Norway needs to be reduced in order to make the level of taxation more competitive compared to the countries around us. The government proposed to lower this to 22 pst. by 2018, but in the tax settlement with the other parties, we agree that the rate should be 23 pst. by 2018. At the same time, the parties agree that further reductions are assessed in the light of developments internationally, and especially in our neighbouring countries. At the same time, it is important to stress the message from an overall committee that we believe that Norway should neither lead nor lead at a low tax level, but that we must harmonise with our neighbouring countries. We are in a situation of high unemployment in Norway, and many resources are deployed to create new jobs and secure existing ones. Part of this job must necessarily take place within established enterprises, and the greatest potential for growth and further development is likely to lie within innovation, new product areas and new markets. It is then important that businesses themselves retain a greater share of the profits in order to have equity to raise innovation and investment. Research also shows that the reduction in corporate tax is probably the most important step we can take to increase investment in business. We want to continue the principle of equal rates in general income for companies and individuals, and I am pleased that the parties are behind the government's proposal for a step-by-step tax on the person tax that replaces the former top tax. I am pleased that there is agreement that the level of dividend tax should be kept at about the same level as today, when we see it in connection with corporate tax. This gives an important predictability of the so-called ownership tax, i.e. the sum of corporation tax and dividend tax. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that the distance between dividend taxes and capital taxes can lead to unfortunate adjustments and perhaps also to creative interest-rate products. Therefore, the batches have been dedicated to reducing this distance. The consensus on an increased protection rate is an important step in this regard. I am also pleased with the point of agreement relating to the establishment of a long-term saving scheme for listed shares and unit trusts in the 2017 budget, which means that gains are not taxed on an ongoing basis. This, hopefully, will also stimulate more people to invest in business. It's a rather consistent view that our tax system favours property investment in many ways. The government, through its budget proposals and the cooperation parties, has stepped up its efforts to reduce this favoritism. We also need to stimulate investment in other sectors, and it is a goal that the tax system should become more neutral in this respect. I am pleased that in the tax settlement we agree to introduce a valuation discount into the property tax on so-called working capital, namely shares and operating funds, by 20 p.m., and that the basis for deductions of debt is reduced accordingly. For the Right, this is an important step on the road to reduce and eventually eliminate taxes on wealth on working capital. I am pleased that the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also express the same thing. It gives a direction where these four parties want to go together in the future. I am pleased that a broad political majority, that is. all but SV, in many ways acknowledge that there are challenges related to the taxes on wealth. There is a consensus that problematic aspects of property taxes include: is that it is paid by Norwegian owners to companies with a deficit. In fact, for many, this means that they have to take dividends from companies that are in deficit in order to pay taxes on wealth, rather than being able to strengthen equity or investment in the enterprise. Furthermore, property taxes may make it difficult for entrepreneurs to go on stock exchanges because they may then experience a rapid increase in value that triggers taxes on wealth. Both of these matters are addressed at the points of agreement. The government is asking for an assessment of how temporary liquidity problems can possibly be addressed without creating a circumvention option for the property tax, and it is good that the government has already announced in the revised national budget that this will apply from 2016. The Government will come back in connection with the 2017 government budget in which way such a scheme is to be implemented. Furthermore, in the context of the 2017 State Budget, the government is also asked to assess the possibility of a temporary discount scheme in the property tax for entrepreneurs by the stock market introduction of the respective company. The problems associated with companies that are in deficit, and with the introduction of the stock exchange for entrepreneurs, have already been mentioned, but I am pleased that the majority also see the capital challenges of less than 200 million. for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, and how these are in many ways dependent on Norwegian capital. It shows the importance of stimulating larger private capital bases in Norway, and then the extraordinary wealth tax is an obstacle. Tax adjustment work is also reinforced as a result of the tax settlement through a number of points. It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of taxing values created in Norway. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction again that the main direction of the government's tax communication has been endorsed by means of a broad tax settlement. This ensures a predictable tax system for Norwegian business that is necessary for the economic transition Norway is now in the middle of. It recognises a policy that is not least concerned with the fact that lower taxes give rise to increased investment, increased activity in the economy and more jobs. The tax settlement strengthens the conditions for Norwegian ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e220	It is good that we have got a deal that will actually provide the basis for increased investment in Norwegian business, increased value creation, and hopefully to secure and create new jobs across the country. The problem is all tax cuts, two-digit billions for which the government parties have lost the single currency, without any employment effect. The blue so-called dynamic tax policy has also increased the differences and given a record high unemployment rate, which unfortunately seems to be getting stuck. So I want to ask the representative Meling, what's the driving force of the Right? Is she happy to have spent so much money, which has only created more wealth in someone, but not created growth in jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e227	I am very pleased that this government, together with our partners, has managed to significantly reduce the level of taxation in Norway. It is important for this reason – as we also mention in the tax communication with the Workers' Party – that we see a link between reduced taxes and the fact that companies can invest in the future, invest to secure jobs and get new jobs. And we know that the greatest differences in this society are between those who are at work and those who are out of work. So focusing on how we can best create jobs for people in this country is one of the best things we can do in relation to a good distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e232	I have to go a little bit further on that. As is known, the main priority of the government — the wealth tax — is very small in terms of both investment and employment. This is reflected in both the Scheel Committee's investigation, the government's own reports and, at the latest, the SSB's analyses. However, taxes to the richest contribute to increasing differences, and the representative Fleet – colleague of the representative Meling and the head of the right-wing group – has previously been quoted as saying that the wealth tax will give more equality by more people coming to work. When the Scheel Committee and a number of leading economists in the SSB say that it does not have an impact on investment and does not have an impact on employment, what does the representative think about Mr Flätten's statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e237	I totally agree. The most important thing is to be able to offer jobs, because that's what makes up the huge differences in Norway, between those who have jobs and those who are out of work. This is why securing jobs will be an overall important objective. Then it's true that corporate tax is probably the tax that has the greatest impact on investment, but we also know that for small and medium-sized enterprises that have to raise capital, just to strengthen their own future and secure jobs, less than 200 million. kr, it is primarily the Norwegian market to which they are addressed, in which case they depend entirely on the availability of private capital to invest in these small and medium-sized enterprises. Norway consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises that do an important job in the whole country and in small communities along the coast, not least. Then we depend on the availability of private capital, and that someone wants to invest, and then it's getting reduced property taxes an important part of that picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e244	Let me congratulate the rapporteur on the way in which we have now been able to land a very important matter. As the representative Meling mentioned in his statement, the issue of property taxes is an important part of the attitude, and I think everyone acknowledges that there are some challenges to it, regardless of a fundamental starting point. Therefore, it is agreed that in the context of the 2017 State budget, the government will provide an assessment of the companies that are in deficit, as well as the companies that are in a start-up position and thus may have specific challenges with liquid funds to pay any property tax via their owners. It says ‘to assess’, and I want to hear how important this is for the Right to get a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e253	It is an absolute priority area, and the government's proposal now shows, in the context of the revised national budget, that it wishes to ensure that such a scheme in relation to enterprises and ownership of companies with a deficit will apply from the current year. And then we'll see how one manages to get into this arrangement. But it is clear that one of the unfortunate aspects of the property tax is that there is a tax on assets and not on a cash flow. This means that, for example: in times like this, when the oil industry is struggling, many ships are in storage, etc., many owners along the coast, among other things, have to pay taxes on wealth on values they do not actually have, and bottle up businesses in a difficult situation. So I'm very happy that the government also prioritises this. In the case of entrepreneurs and stock market introductions, I expect the government to follow it up in a good way and come back to the state budget for 2017 and see how you can now help entrepreneurs who want to go on the stock market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e262	Depreciation rules are an incredibly important instrument that contributes to the long-term viability of businesses and contributes to the tax burden in the short term. We in the Center Party, together with the Right Party, have been very concerned about having good depreciation rules, which means that it is profitable to invest in the company, and that we reduce the tax burden on companies that invest. Therefore, one of our main wishes in this treatment has been that we should state that we should continue to use depreciation rules as a good tool to stimulate Norwegian companies to invest. That's why I think it's strange that it wasn't possible to get right on their own programme formulations, because the Right Programme says to make it more profitable to invest in operational funds through better depreciation rates. We put that into the setting, but the right would not interfere and support its own previous program formulations that depreciation is an important tool. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e272	It is a good principle that depreciation should reflect what is actually the real impairment of different objects. We should be aware that depreciation opportunities are also part of what can erode a tax base in many ways. At the same time, when we agree that we want broad bases and low rates, it is clear that one must see things in a larger context. I'm glad that we have an agreement behind this principle that depreciation should reflect the real values of different objects. I am also pleased with what we got through the agreement, among other things. with the Centre Party, where we did not make any changes, including: depreciation of livestock buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e279	First, it is important to say that there is no consensus on depreciation rates, that we adhere to the principle that the government had in its communication. It's not part of those points of agreement, because it's not mentioned. The only thing about depreciation at the points of agreement is about livestock construction. If that's to understand as a principle, what Siri A. Meling says, I have to refer from the Right Program: ‘make it more profitable to invest in new means of operation through more favourable depreciation rates’.» It's in the Right Program. In the Health Declaration, on which the Right and the Advance Party agree, I believe, it says: ‘To review and improve the tax depreciation rules in order to make Norwegian business more competitive.’ Do you now disagree with what is stated in the Sundvolden Declaration and what is in the Right Programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e298	We don't in any way disagree with that, and there doesn't have to be any contradiction either. But it's important to apply a principle that depreciation should reflect what is actually the real impairment of different objects. Then I want to repeat that using depreciation to a large extent will also help to hollow out a tax base. Ensuring the tax base has been an important part of this tax reform in order to maintain a system where we have a broad basis for taxing and where we can also keep relatively low tax rates. These things have to be seen in a whole and in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e305	I would like to congratulate the representative Meling on having worked ashore a settlement, a broad settlement, of which my party is not part, but which is eye-catchingly wide in view of the fact that, according to the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, the effect of the conciliation is to confuse the other tax profile of the government earlier in the period. It has tended to be a broad criticism of, but that criticism has now largely subsided. I want to follow up a little bit on the lines of the representative Battle Violence Vedum, for there are several things that lie in this agreement, and that are contrary to what the government has previously signaled. Then I think specifically of the protection rate, and increased protection rate, which the Ministry of Finance says only starts to have a noticeable effect if you have a wealth of over 50 million. kr. It is stated in the government tax notice that an increase in the protection rate ‘may raise questions about whether today’s protective deduction system is at all sustainable’. Why have the conciliators overrun their own government and acted contrary to government advice in such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e314	First I want to thank SV. Although the party was not in the final tax settlement, SV was in the talks for a long time and made important and good contributions to that debate. As regards the question of the screening rate, I was a little bit concerned with it in my article as well. As we are now correcting the owner's tax, there is a difference between dividend taxes and capital taxes that can lead to unfortunate adjustments. In such an image, it is also important to strengthen the screening rate, but the overall focus is on getting incentives to invest, people investing in business. That is also the fact that there is a good protection rate that reflects real risk and that there is reason for it, an important part of it, to increase investment in the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e324	High participation in the labour market and a relatively high level of taxation that gives us income to finance what has become one of the world's best welfare societies are key characteristics of the Norwegian model. If we are to succeed in preserving and further developing the society that we have created, we depend on maintaining the income of the community. When work for all is an independent goal, it is to give individual freedom, but it is also the most important means of financing the welfare of the future. We use the tax revenue to pay for education and skills such as companies' demand, infrastructure that makes it possible to transport the products efficiently, and leave rights and kindergartens that make it possible to combine jobs and children. Many factors determine whether Norway is an attractive country to invest in. Stable framework conditions and access to highly skilled labour are important elements. In the report ‘Doing Business 2015’, published by the World Bank, Norway ranks sixth among 189 countries. As we read yesterday, Norwegian competitiveness has deteriorated somewhat during this government, but it is still high. The ranking is based on ten different goals for the ease of starting and operating in different countries. The tax system also plays an important role in this context. If we are to maintain a sufficiently high level of taxation, the tax system must be set up to minimise the loss of efficiency. Since the 1992 tax reform, the tax system has been based on the principles of broad tax bases, low rates and symmetric treatment of expenditure and income. We have a long way to go in Norway with equal treatment of different industries, forms of ownership, investments and capital income, which ensures that the capital is invested where it throws the most of it. Studies and evaluations of the 1992 reform show that it contributed to significantly higher efficiency and growth in the Norwegian economy. A problem with the tax reform in 1992 was, however, the sharing model. It was intended to ensure the political ambitions of distribution in the absence of dividend taxes by active owners, i.e. those who owned two thirds of the shares of a company were allocated salary and capital income based on the value of the capital of the company in which they had a holding. There were strong incentives to sell down, so that one fell below a two-thirds share – and thus only had capital income. The main objective of the tax reform in 2006 was to ensure equal treatment of capital and labour income by correcting incentives to avoid the sharing model. Among other things, to this end, dividends tax was introduced and the sharing model was repealed. Evaluation message, with Innst. 365 S for 2010–2011, draws a positive picture of the effects of the 2006 reform. Following the 1992 reform, Norway had a low corporate tax compared to our main trading partners. Since then, a lot has happened. International tax competition and increasing pressure on company taxes have made the Norwegian company tax now appear to be high. A high rate contributes to making Norway a less attractive country to invest in and provides strong incentives for profit-moving and thus eroding the tax base. That was the background to the Stoltenberg II government starting work on preparing the basis for tax reform, putting down the Scheel Committee and notifying the first cuts in corporate tax in the context of the review of the 2013 national budget. The starting point of the Labour Party was never that this should be a reform of large, general tax cuts. The agreement therefore contains few restrictions on tax rates. It is the tax rates that determine the level of taxation and the degree of redistribution. The Community must be secured with income that enables us to do the great tasks ahead of us. This does not mean that after the tax reform, the accounts have to go exactly to zero. The proceeds of the tax conversion will always be rough and uncertain, and it makes little sense to count heads against heads. It is more important to ensure that the rates are structured in such a way as to maintain the symmetry of the tax system and to limit the possibility of adaptation. A more efficient tax system that increases investment will, in all likelihood, also increase activity in the economy and contribute to an increase in tax revenue. This was the experience of the 1992 reform. However, these effects are highly uncertain and will also depend heavily on which taxes change. For example, the wealth tax has little proven effect, as confirmed by both the Scheel Committee, a number of prominent economists and the government's own reports. We also know – among others. through the recent analysis by the SSB – that tax cuts are an expensive and very inefficient strategy to increase employment. For the cost of generating one job through tax cuts, we will be able to obtain 15 jobs in the private sector rather by prioritising public investment. This clearly speaks against large tax cuts, especially at a time when we experience the highest number of unemployed who have ever been measured in Norway. Norway has served well to have broad agreement on the main principles on which our tax system is based, despite disagreements about rates and the overall level of taxation. The Workers' Party has consistently believed that international developments require the Stortinget to reconvene in a wide-ranging settlement that protects the tax base, provides a more effective tax system and improves incentives to invest in Norway. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a broad majority are involved in taking responsibility for creating stable and good framework conditions for business. Predictability in the tax system is more important for business than tax rates. Let's hope that this year's budget is the last time the bulk of the population in the last polled by the budget negotiations comes up with new, unexplored tax proposals that put thousands of jobs at risk. The tax reform was not as extensive as it could have been, but in the Workers' Party we are pleased to have had an impact on most of our primary positions that we presented last autumn. I'm not going to go into everybody, but I mention someone: We are pleased that there is agreement to reduce company tax to 23 p.m., in line with the Workers' Party's proposal. This is the tax that really matters as to how much investment Norway attracts. At the same time, we signal that we do not intend to take the lead in a race to cut the corporate tax as much as possible. A broad majority of the Storting is now to keep the wealth tax that the only tax pays more of the country's richest, and we've arranged it better. Last autumn we presented a proposal for equal valuation for shares, commercial property and secondary dwellings, so that it would be as profitable to invest in a machine park as in an apartment no. 2, 3 or 4. It corrects a bias in property taxes, and we have now reached a broad agreement on that. We are also pleased to have had an impact on adjusting the shielding discount, which is important especially for small businesses, which are able to attract risk capital. And we are pleased that there is agreement on taxation of the financial industry. A very important point that the Workers' Party has been working on over time, and which was further updated through Panama Papers, is tax evasion measures. It is important that we now get a quick and good implementation of the BEPS unit in Norway, and that we get an assessment to extend the disclosure obligation to include the purpose of transactions, so that the equality authorities not only see snapshots of a transaction, but also understand why it happens. It will make it easier to assess and discover whether things are as they should. And we agree – once again – that country-by-country reporting should make undesired tax adjustment visible and ensure relevant information from subsidiaries and their support functions, that it should appear in the accounts, and that we should now also be overseen. A point is about a Norwegian public ownership register that creates transparency about ownership of Norwegian companies, which allows the actual and ultimate owners of the companies to be found. We are also very pleased that the interest-rate limitation rule is extended to cover external interest rates, because it has become increasingly clear that external interest rates can also be used effectively for profit-moving purposes. We also need to assess the professional secrecy of lawyers, as well as how Norwegian law is equipped to meet increasingly complex financial instruments and corporate structures. Finally, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee – and, of course, the rapporteur, Siri Meling. We will again, on behalf of the Labour Party, stress the importance of this broad agreement and the positive fact that the Stortninget so broadly takes on a shared responsibility for agreeing on some principles that create predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e371	The working party shall be commended for the proposal made by the party to participate in this conciliation and for their participation, inter alia. proposes to introduce a 20 pst valuation discount. in the taxes on wealth by 2018 for shares and operating assets. This means that the tax base and therefore the tax burden on wealth is reduced. This is very joyful with our eyes. But in the class struggle on 10 May, the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman Marianne Marthinsen says that after 2017, the wealth tax will be increased, and the rate here will rise, as she has suggested in the 'budget by budget' she says. Does this mean that the effect of point 2 of the agreement is to be undermined on the first and best occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e380	The point 2 of the agreement on equal valuation is, as several speakers have said, that we should not get a biased investment because of the tax system. It is important that the tax system is not the decisive factor in whether a person, or an enterprise, chooses to make an investment in property or in enterprises – things that contribute to creating activity. That's the valuation that is. What rate you put on top of there, as long as it's equal, won't create distortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e385	The point is that introducing such a discount will affect the tax base. When you put the tax base in the property tax, it'll be a relief. If you go in the next hand and you increase the rate, you're going to zero out the benefit you're introducing. Doesn't the representative see this as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e393	I'm recording that the representative Hille mentions this as a discount. The Labour Party consistently refers to this as an equal valuation, as I also did in my post. If the representative Hille, as he has probably done earlier this year, has read the alternative budget of the Workers' Party for the current year, he will have seen that there is already an equal valuation of property and shares of 80 p.m., but that the Workers' Party has a tax rate of 1.1 p.m. in its alternative budget for the current year. This means that we get the positive effects of an equal valuation, where there are no distortions in investment. At the same time, we are also involved in taxing those who have the greatest assets, more than what the government wants, because we believe that those who have a little bit more should be involved in taking a slightly larger burden than those who have a little bit less.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e400	It was only three years ago, in the 2013 election campaign, that the Workers' Party was diligent users of the slogan: a krone less in taxes means a krone less in welfare. Today, the Labour Party advocates that there are problematic aspects to the wealth tax that make it necessary to cut. The representative of Wickholm mentioned in his statement that we have too high a corporate tax and that it is necessary to cut it. Out of curiosity, therefore, I wonder whether the representative Wickholm can say which version of the Workers' Party it is he thinks is wrong? Is that the 2013 version? Or is it the 2016 version? Or are we in a situation where the Workers' Party still stands on its slogan from 2013 and believes that today's decisions will lead to less well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e407	Today's decision is an agreement on tax systems, not tax levels. I am sure that the representative of the Progress Party can agree, and the Progress Party is not obliged in any way to do beyond what is in the agreement, what to do with its tax rates. It's not the Workers' Party either. When we went into these negotiations, our starting point was that the negotiations were going to be nominally neutral, that we were going to take the same amount of income into the community. What the Workers' Party has been involved in is to have a tax system that is as effective as possible: that we have low rates in the areas where high tax rates contribute to less efficiency, and then we can have higher tax rates in the areas where tax rates do not contribute to reducing the efficiency of investment in the economy. It's a smart way to set up the tax system, and that's our starting point for participating in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e414	Let me say that I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has played such an active role in getting a broad settlement. It is important for predictability, not least for industry and therefore for jobs. The representative of Wickholm has been in charge. I would like to ask the representative how important it has been for the Workers' Party to have the same rate of corporation tax and personal tax. And in this context, since we are talking about distribution, can we count on a signal from the Workers' Party that this step tax will tax the top income more heavily? Is that what we can read from the post that was made by the representative Wickholm?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e421	I would first of all like to thank you for the praise that the Workers' Party receives. Then I'll be careful to take too much of the honor myself, but also say that we in the Workers' Party are well pleased with the efforts our fractional leader, Marianne Marthinsen, has made in those negotiations. When it comes to symmetry, which I believe is what the representative is asking for, it is important to avoid adaptation that the general tax rates are as similar as possible. The Labour Party has also signaled in its budget for the current year that we want a step rate of more progressiveness, that with the lowest incomes they pay something more, and that those with higher incomes – like what we mean in other areas of the tax system – are with and attracting a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e428	I would also like to congratulate and praise the Labour Party. In the last few weeks, they have shown a unique ability to find euphemisms for the word ‘tax code’ and find ways to cut taxes, but say that there is something else to do. The last term I heard in this post was an improvement, or adjustment, perhaps, of the property tax. It's an adjustment that averages NOK 326 100 to each of the 0.2 per million richest people in the country. And the challenge for the Workers' Party is that it seems that it is only the Workers' Party that believes that the reduction in the valuation of shares does not give lower taxes on shares. Today's newspaper writes in the lead position: ‘However, the fact is that the lines between the right and left sides become unclear after the conciliation — and that Ap has agreed to tax reliefs for the richest. [[...]] And if the left-hand side loses the choice, there will be no increase in the tax rates that Ap comforts with after the conciliation." What does the representative Truls Wickholm think when he gets that kind of criticism from what, historically at least, has been a body very much in favour of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e438	I don't think anyone will be surprised that right-wing policy will be pursued if the right-wing parties win the election, but if that's what I think Snorre Valen and I hope that the Workers' Party will win the government power, it will also lead a social democratic policy after 2017. I think that Snorre Valen understands well the relationship between the fact that it is possible to have an equal valuation, but operates at a higher tax rate than the government does in its proposals. It's the tax rate that ultimately determines the amount of tax payable, and it's the tax rate that determines how much redistribution we'll get. I think management articles could be different if SV had discussed this more on this basis, instead of – almost deliberately, I think – trying to keep focus on just one part of the factors in the calculation that determine what is paid in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e445	We have some problems with the computer system, so the representative Truls Wickholm now got a little extra speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e448	In this case, the Labour Party here is trying to defend, they need a little bit more time. To attribute the SV control over what the traditional workers' press writes in the leadership position is a compliment, but far from the truth. The point is that the Workers' Party by agreeing to a tax reform that here and now lowers the taxing of the richest people in the country by hundreds of thousands of dollars – well, you do it, it's actually like agreeing to the right-hand premises. What we know is that as of next year this reform will have the effect of several of the replicators to Wickholm pointed out, namely that it will be tax cuts for wealthy people. What we don't know is what the Workers' Party intends to do after 2017. It is not long since the Workers' Party criticized the removal of the inheritance fee either. Now they're not going to reintroduce it – now you're defending yourself with a theoretical increase in wealth tax. Then I would like to know: how much does the rate of the property tax have to be increased to compensate for the biggest tax cuts of the richest people in the country, on which the Workers' Party has now agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e453	I have repeatedly tried to explain this calculation to Snorre Valen in various articles in the Class struggle and in social media, but I'm now going to try an example that might make it easier. Let's say that the Labour Party and the Advance Party, and for that matter other parties, agreed that it was a good idea that all roads in Norway were built with a width of five metres. Then the roads did not suddenly become narrower and suddenly thicker, and we could have predictability of how wide the roads were from year to year. But then the Progress Party takes over the government power, and where the Workers Party has decided that the speed limit should be 80 km/h, they now say it should be 110 km/h. Is it then the Workers' Party that is responsible for the Progress Party setting the speed limit to 110 km/h? I think Snorre Valen will disagree with that, and it's kind of the same idea we're basing here, that we can't take responsibility for what tax rate the government is spending on its budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e458	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e462	Initially, I would also like to thank the Committee for the constructive cooperation, and I think it is right to include SV. Even though they jumped off along the way, I think they were with impressive lengths. It is important that we have joined the main lines of government tax reform and established a broad consensus on important principles for a new and predictable tax system. Despite disagreements about tax levels and rates, which we have many good opportunities to debate, it is important to have broad political agreement on some essential and fundamental principles that contribute to the predictable framework for our business and Norwegian businesses. While tax is partly an instrument for distribution, it is primarily the right level and mechanism as a means of ensuring the creation of value in society, investment in new jobs and income that can be used for distribution and well-being over public budgets. It was this government and our finance minister who marked an important change in the tax committee premises when the mandate was extended to include a model and a proposal with significant tax reductions. That's what the Progress Party feels that we've now come through, precisely that we're pointing out a direction, and that there are also net effects in the broad consensus established in the Stortinget. Important parts of the tax reform have already been implemented in the state budget for 2016. Tax rates on corporate and personal income have been reduced from 28 p.m. until 25 pst. since the government change in government in the autumn of 2013, and during the same period the property tax on persons and businesses has been reduced and the inheritance tax removed in its entirety. The Stortinget will now adopt a tax reform to ensure future growth in the Norwegian economy and to contribute to work, activity and conversion. The oil brake makes us more dependent on other industries that are important to our economy. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate our business life and that we provide Norwegian companies with competitive framework conditions. While reduced activity in oil and gas due to low oil prices is temporary and this industry will mean a great deal to Norway and Norwegian technology development for a long time in the future, we therefore need to stimulate further growth in other industries in order to ensure jobs and well-being. The Progress Party has always argued that a living, sustainable and profitable business life is created through low taxes and minimum levels of government regulation and intervention. Tax is not an end in itself, but a means for the state to be able to finance what we believe to be its most important tasks, including: on welfare, health, infrastructure, education, justice and defence. Tax is a necessary source of income, but at the same time a cost to business. So there has to be a balance, and today we're taking a step in the right direction. It is particularly gratifying that the Workers' Party shares the agreement on tax reform, in particular because, at each budgetary procedure, the Workers' Party has questioned whether tax relief has any effect on economic growth and employment. Now they're in. Of course, it is not by chance that other countries, such as the United States, are. Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom are significantly reducing corporate tax. The level of 23 pst. by 2018, which is established in the agreement between the lots, cannot remain standing forever regardless of what is happening in other countries. If Norway is to be an attractive country for investing in new jobs, we also need to adapt to an international level of taxation while at the same time investing in infrastructure, education and research – to mention some important factors that strengthen our future competitiveness. It is not that less taxes mean less well-being — or vice versa — but the right tax provides more well-being because it stimulates increased activity. Wide tax base and tax rates at moderate and appropriate levels will best facilitate growth, which in turn generates greater profits and thus greater tax revenue. Dynamic tax effects, which individual batches will not accept, are duly and professionally justified in the tax committee's setting and estimated at a point between 20 pst. and 40 pst. This means that the rate of self-financing of the tax reductions provided is very high. The government’s proposal for tax reform does not simply mean that businesses are getting reduced tax rates. There is a broad consensus that rates of corporate and personal income should follow each other, so-called symmetry, in order to avoid tax adjustments, and that means that taxes on ordinary income will also be reduced to 23 pst. by 2018. Taxes on employee income and lower marginal taxes are important contributions to the working line to motivate more people from government benefits to their own employee income. One of the most important for the Progress Party in the negotiations on tax reform was to protect primary dwellings and ordinary leisure homes against increased taxes and taxes. I am very pleased that we got along with it, and that ideas that remind us of state property taxes were put back in the drawer safely, where hopefully they will be – and at least belong at home – for a while. It is very positive that we have gained with our view of the wealth tax, and that a broad majority of the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, now agree to introduce a 20 pst valuation discount. on shares and operating resources by 2018. On top of this, there is agreement to consider a model that defers the property tax on working capital in deficit periods. It is an arrangement for which the government has announced is already in the 2017 budget, with effect for this year. It is clear that for many Norwegian company owners who have tied a lot of capital in e.g. ship or equivalent that is currently in storage, there is a problem that there is no operation, that no profit is generated, and that there is no money to pay the property tax. At that time, the introduction of a type of tax credit notified by the government is an important contribution to their progress through a temporary period of decline. There is also agreement to consider a temporary discount scheme for entrepreneurs on stock market introductions, so that companies that have not yet started to make money but have a high long-term performance potential can come on stock exchange and acquire capital. Valuation discounts on shares and operating resources are important in order to treat different assets in a non-discriminatory manner and to make them more attractive, inter alia. private individuals to invest in business, take risks, which in turn generate activity and which in turn create new jobs and the value creation that we need in society in the future. In addition, it is also an important point in the agreement between the parties that the government is asked to propose, in the context of the 2017 budget, a long-term saving scheme for listed shares and unit trusts that would mean that gains are not taxed on an ongoing basis. It is also an important mechanism to introduce, so that it becomes even more attractive for individuals to invest in shares and contribute to increased activity, and not just channel money into housing, secondary housing or property. When in 1992 the company tax was actually reduced from 50 pst. until 28 p.m., it gave an immediate positive effect to the Norwegian economy. Now is the time for a new reform that gives the same effect. It is to hope that the reform we are adopting today will have a long duration, and that it will help to create the predictability that Norwegian companies and our businesses now need very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e507	The representative Limi has now and earlier said that this reform sets the framework, and that there is much that can be done within the framework. One consequence of this government’s tax policy is that inequalities in Norway are increasing. The OECD has shown that when inequalities increase, they also weaken the growth of a country. Tax may be the most important tool to counter increasing differences. It has a sure redistributive effect. Does the representative Limi agree with this? What action will the Progress Party take to prevent inequalities from continuing to grow, so that most people are not left with the largest tax bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e514	I have to correct the claim that inequalities are growing in Norway. Norway is actually the same society in the world, the same country in the world. These are very small inequalities. It is not that the OECD has concluded in line with what the representative says. On the contrary, the OECD points out that what Norway needs is to reduce the level of taxation and to establish a broad tax base, and in particular they have pointed to the tax on wealth. The whole point is that the tax agenda we are now establishing is going to help us get value creation, that we are just getting more income, which in turn allows us to target action against those who are most in need of it in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e519	One does not know that although Norway is a society of small differences, this government has helped to increase the differences between people. I perceive half-hearted support for the redistributive effect. As the representative Limi points out, it is the wealth tax that, in a special position, contributes to an increase in differences in Norway. At the same time, it means that no more jobs are created. It's the corporate tax that has the greatest effect here, we agree on that today. This, in turn, means that inequalities in Norway are exacerbated. Can the representative, Limi, therefore, explain that all the time that wealth tax laws do not contribute to creating more jobs and, at the same time, increase inequalities, can we expect in future budgets that the Progress Party puts the cuts in the wealth tax on payroll rather than spend the money and the measures on the things that you know work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e526	There are many claims made. It is not the case that a reduction in the taxes on wealth of Norwegian business owners does not contribute to employment. Rather on the contrary. This has been pointed out in particular: The Menon report, which rightly says that the biggest impact on investment is reduced corporate tax. It's quite natural, because corporate tax also includes non-resident owners, it doesn't do the property tax. Just where there is discrimination against Norwegian owners for the benefit of foreign owners. What is important now is to stimulate Norwegian ownership and to stimulate further investment in new jobs. That's what's going to ensure the value creation we need in the future, which means that we have something to distribute over the public budgets. I assume that the Workers' Party is also concerned that we should have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e531	With the Progress Party in government, there has been targeted tax consolidation for those who travel far to work. Cuts in commuter deductions have been called the green shift. Everything that is bad and difficult is called the green shift, because then it sounds nice. But it's really about punishing those who have a long way to go. It's especially strange when it happens at a time when more people become unemployed. In the tax settlement, it's stated that we're going to have a general tax rate of 23 p.m., which is good. It will also further weaken the value of different deductions. We in the Center Party believe, for example, that The amount of commuting should be increased so as not to penalise those who travel far to work. Does the Progress Party believe that those who travel far to work should be further punished, or does the Progress Party, like the Center Party, believe that the commuting allowance should be increased to compensate for what is in the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e538	For the Progress Party, it is important that both those who travel long and those who travel short receive a reduced tax and a tax. What we are now establishing is a tax system that means that we are reducing the rates, and then we also have to look at the tax base. There is no doubt that it is important to have a transparent and good tax system that there is a broad basis and low rates. It will all enjoy, including the group of which Battle Violence Vedum is most concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e543	I understand the representative Limi so that the Progress Party thinks it is absolutely fine that those who travel far to work with a car should get an additional tax tightening. Before Christmas, it was partly compensated when it was for those who travel far to work by train, by getting a little cheaper monthly tickets around Oslo. But in the case of those who travel far to work with a car, does the Progress Party think it is right that they should have an additional tax tightening with what is in the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e548	No, we don't think so. There is reason to remember that since the government change in 2013, we have reduced taxes and taxes by 18.5 billion. Net kr. We have reduced car-related charges by about 2 billion. NOK – that is a number of reliefs that have been implemented for everyone, including those who drive a car. To be honest, the Senterpartiet should rather start reading its own alternative budget, where they propose a number of tax and tax increases, not least on the fuel side, which will at least be very unfavourable to the group that depends on the car to and from work and to other tasks in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e555	The Progress Party has been able to introduce air tolls by introducing an aircraft seat charge, and there has never been more toll collection on the road in Norway than we have now. I have a question about depreciation rates. The Progress Party programme says that it wants to use depreciation rates as a policy instrument, and it is very clear that it is a good tool. Why does the Progress Party not want to go into what is contained in the Sundvolden Declaration? There, the Sundvolden Declaration, signed by the Progress Party, states that the depreciation rates should be improved. When the Central Party proposes it in this agreement, why is the Progress Party opposed to supporting the Sundvolden Declaration, which the Centre Party is in favour of in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e563	The party of progress is not at all against the platform on which our government is based – rather on the contrary. We're very much in favour of it, and we're in the process of implementing large parts of it. Now, when we are going to implement a tax reform and establish a new tax system, it is important to agree on some basic principles. The points of agreement that we have in this position today are important because they contribute to lower rates in the long term, lower tax levels, and then there must be a tax system that is as neutral as possible in business and that does not unduly affect business-economy decisions, but there must be generally favourable tax conditions for the business life that both Battle Violence Vedum and I depend on to make the economy work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e572	Can I interpret the reply to the representative, Mr Limi, so that there will be worse proposals and worse depreciation rules in the draft budget coming from the government to the harvest? I'd like to challenge Limi on that, and if the Progress Party could say that they don't want to weaken the depreciation rules for some parts of Norwegian business in the state budget for the fall? We believe predictability is important, among other things. in the case of start-up letters for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e577	Now I'm not going to shoot what's going on in the state budget for 2017, because it's still a while ahead. But I think I can promise the Central Party and the representative of the Battle of Vedum that on the basis of what this government has done in these years since 2013, and what we are now establishing in the tax reform, there should be proposals in the 2017 state budget that benefit most peoples as well as Norwegian business. What our businesses depend most on is that we have stable and predictable framework conditions, and that we are now establishing a tax system that gives them competitive conditions in relation to what you experience abroad. There is a lot to think about if you're going to put some political leadership in terms of depreciation rates or other things, but basically the whole thing is crucial for those who own Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e584	Most of the replicators get a little bit more speaking time today, because we have a little bit of inertia in the computer system. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e589	We have historical experience in this house of having a broad deal in terms of important aspects of fiscal policy. That is why we from the Christian People's Party from the first day have worked to ensure that this important message has now been given to us for treatment. We are very pleased that there is a broad majority for important main lines of Norwegian tax policy. So it's not like getting a compromise is the most important thing. The most important thing, of course, is the content. However, when the content also provides significant predictability for Norwegian business – and that really means predictability for Norwegian jobs – I am very pleased that there is a broad majority that today, through the 17 points on which there is agreement, stands together on these broad lines. We are concerned about continuing to have a broad basis and that the rates may also be similarly low. So what are we going to do together? We have managed to keep dividends tax at the current level, in line with what the government proposed, when we see dividends tax and company tax in the context. It is an important predictability for business. We are now introduced a kind of distinction between the capital that is in the company and that creates jobs, and the capital that goes more to private consumption and investment, a distinction between so-called working capital. Then we disagree on percentages and rates, but the very basis for pointing out that this is a difference of substance in the basis of wealth taxes is important, and we from the Christian People's Party are very happy that it has been implemented. Then the majority, who was also the case rapporteur, asked the government to look at the situation in which companies are in a deficit position, and where there appears to be extra unreasonable with a wealth tax, and they have already notified them that they should do so, as well as in the case of companies to be on the stock exchange. Not only will it be easy to find the right framework for this, but it shows that, regardless of what is considered to be the property tax in principle, the Stortinget sees that at least one has unfortunate aspects in some cases and cases that affect how Norwegian business can relate to a tax system — a tax system that must be such that it is profitable to invest in jobs. All of these points I do not have five minutes to go through, but in conclusion, I think that the debate theme in future in Norwegian fiscal policy will be how we will jointly ensure that what becomes of economic activity in this country also provides a tax base in this country. It goes on the whole international tax situation, where we see that companies move both profits and depreciation and what you can subtract as appropriate, based on what benefits the individual company, in the different jurisdictions in which you can operate. But ultimately, if there's no joint cooperation on this -- that we do what we can at national level, and what we can get at internationally together -- then it's the community that's going to lose. That's why the part of the tax settlement that gives a number of assignments to the government, in my opinion, is one of the most important things when we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e611	First of all, I just want to thank the chairman of the committee for his contribution to having got through this consensus. I have seen the presence of the leader as important to keep the parties together when it might look as darkest sometimes, and it has been an important contribution. But then that's what the Syverse finally picks up here: how are we going to prevent excess migration, and how are we going to follow this up? In particular, there are three things that I perceive to be relatively new, which we have agreed on in this document. It is that we should have a review of how the law is equipped for financial instruments and corporate structures, the professional secrecy of lawyers and the disclosure obligation should include the purpose of transactions. Does the Seven agree that these are new, important things, and does the Christian People's Party have any thoughts about how quickly this should be followed up by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e620	Thanks for the nice words. I fully agree that these are crucial points for what I believe is at least the main challenge in the future to ensure a broad tax base, which also has legitimacy in large sections of the population. If we don't have a system in which everyone contributes, they ask who will contribute all the time to the seventh and last time: why am I just going to be part of this? The representative of Wickholm mentioned three key points of agreement, both how we work internationally and what we do with our own national legislation. If I'm going to point out something, I'm going to have to say that what we control at national level, how we're going to look at the disclosure obligation – whether or not it should be crushed so that we actually have to say something to the authorities and possibly subsequent legal cases about what the purpose of the transaction was – can be of great importance. I expect that there is full pressure on this from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e629	The representative was concerned that there is a broad majority for predictability of Norwegian workplaces. I fully agree with that. The majority say that there has been a lack of appropriateness in the current wealth tax. Moreover, it should not be believed that there was a broad majority behind it, when you hear part of the lines directed at the special government parties today, about the arrangement of the property tax. They seem to have forgotten what they've written. But back to the representative Syversen, who writes in a comment on how to proceed by reducing the wealth tax on working capital. Let me also add that the working capital-track would probably not have been so advanced if it had not been for the Christian People's Party's entrance to this. But is the Christian People's Party also open to broad solutions for further reducing the tax on working capital? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e636	Then there is speaking time, and Hans Olav Syversen gets answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e639	It is possible that I can imagine the representative of the fleet was finishing up with, so I think I can handle that question. Yes, our programme is quite clear: we want, in terms of working capital, business and employment considerations to weigh so heavily that we are willing to reduce the rate of working capital. It's because there's no doubt that getting, on the owner's side, taxed values that can't be traded, but that you also have to pay even if the operation goes badly, is very problematic. That is why it is quite right that we still want to look at that in order to improve the situation for the business community and thus Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e647	Then the representative fleet can ask the question in the next line – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e650	I would like to have it elaborated in the last answer, because I was not asked in full either. It could be that if you, for example, to have a separate rate in the property tax for equity and operating assets, one may, of course, be in conflict with what is otherwise expressed by the Christian People's Party, namely that it should be simple, unbureaucratic and accurate, as has been described in what we have now done, by reducing the valuation discount. That's really what was in my closing question: Will the Christian People's Party be open to looking at many solutions here, so that we don't shut ourselves in exactly the track that's described, but maybe take the signal that what we mean here can have a crazy effect on other parts of the kingdom of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e655	Now it's the government's job to create a system where you get a distinction between working capital, where the tax base becomes slightly different, and other capital. Of course, we're not immune to seeing what the consequences of it are, but we have very much faith that the department will find a very good solution to this. Then our priority remains that if the wealth tax goes down, it's on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e660	The tax system has several tasks, and over time it has evolved. Among other things, both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have had common interests – gift deductions have been a common cause, family deductions to balance differences between the purchasing power of families and other groups, and commuting deductions have been a matter on which the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have often come together. So we're going to agree that we're going to reduce the general tax rate to 23 pst. It also makes the value of these deductions go down. It might be more intentional in terms of the interest rate deduction, because there's a sense that there's been a rather broad consensus that we want it to go down. But there are some concerns about the distributional, among other things. in the case of family and commuting. Does Hans Olav Syversen share some of these concerns, and is also the Christian People's Party willing to be able to assess whether we should make some adjustments in those deductions, which make us compensate for the skepticism that is now coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e667	It may be tempting to say that it never seems to be a problem to find a majority of deductions. I think we can say that the Christian People's Party has also contributed to this, both once and twice. I also notice that in certain parts of the tax area I also see the centre party's hand on some deductions that have come up over time. We believe that yes, we need a rigorous tax system, and the main points, as I said, are broad bases and low rates. But it's clear that there's also a policy in deduction, so I'm not locking myself to say that someone is going away, that someone is going to increase, or that someone is going to decrease. We will actually have the freedom to assess that in each budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e674	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e677	Predictability in tax policy is important, and I think almost all of the figures today have come from not wanting to change abruptly. That's why it's very happy that it's as broad a comparison as it is, where we stand across traditional dividing lines. It provides predictability for business and for individuals, and predictability is a very great asset. Many of the changes that we make here in the tax settlement have come gradually and are knowledge-based. There are interventions that have been investigated over different periods of expansion and by different governments. One of the big grips we're taking is taxing the financial sector. It is a work that started out too fully after the financial crisis in 2008 – not least with the Financial Crisis Committee, which made its assessments, which was followed up by the Scheel Committee, which has made assessments of both the previous government and the current government – and now we conclude broadly. Across traditional dividing lines, we all say that we want the financial sector to contribute more to the overall tax financing of Norwegian society. It is a broad settlement and a solid foundation for implementing such a change as we are going to do from 2017, across political dividing lines. The second broad and big thing we're doing here, which we're partly financing with a tougher tax on the financial sector, is lower corporate tax. It started under the previous government that company taxes were lowered. The previous government set up the Scheel Committee, and then the current government concluded that they wanted to continue the Scheel Committee with a slightly new mandate. One of the main steps is to want a lower corporate tax, and now there is a broad majority to ensure that it goes down to 23 pst. It's predictable, it happens over time, and it's thoughtful. Over time, the majority of the parties have expressed concern about a tax system that has stimulated property speculation, and we have had various discussions on how to reverse this. What is now happening in the context of taxes on wealth is also predictable. First of all, we protect the primary dwelling. There's something I feel that all the parties now agree that we're going to protect the primary dwelling, but we're not giving with the property tax incentives that it's going to be more profitable to invest in property than for example. in means of operation. There will be more equal treatment, making it more profitable to invest in operating resources and to raise capital in small and medium-sized enterprises in the future than it is now. There's predictability in it, and it's across the board. I also think it is good that we have shown that the Stortinget can be predictable when you come up with proposals for changes in the estimate of wealth taxes in forestry – as there have been rounds in the past, but where the bulk of the population across the dividing lines has said they want the model that is now. Then someone in the Ministry of Finance thought it wasn't so clever, but nevertheless we make sure that there is predictability around it. There's some things that there's no predictability around, and that's depreciation rates. It's very strange that the two parties that were the most obvious about getting depreciation rates in the past, now they're saying to get away from it. One change was it for livestock. Luckily, you could stop it. For example: has invested 7 million. kr in a livestock farm, it would have given a reduction of 140000 kroner in annual depreciation if we had not stopped it. Thank you for doing so by the majority. We did it together and created predictability. But when you read the Health Declaration, and when you read the Party Programmes to the Right and the Advance Party, they have signalled the opposite of what is stated in the Tax Communication: reducing depreciation as an instrument. I believe that it is an unwise policy to warn one thing and do something completely different, because predictability is a great good. We have seen in the last year how unforeseeable taxation policy can be. The worst example is the so-called airline seat charge, where only overnight – without having been assessed and without having been investigated – new charges are introduced that are likely to risk 1000 jobs only in the case of Rygge. That is why, in general, it is incredibly important that we do not bring about that kind of sudden change in tax policy. We need broad changes and broad settlements. We're going to fix that right over here. I hope that the government has learned from its mistakes, that the kind of new taxes that play so many jobs in the next budget, and that you go back to your primary positions in terms of depreciation rates, and see that it is a good tool, not least in a time of increasing unemployment where we need to stimulate businesses to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e703	In the tax notice, the problematic aspects of property tax are recognised, such as: that companies with a deficit must pay taxes on wealth and that one can make it more difficult for entrepreneurs to go to the stock exchange. In the tax settlement, the majority of the opinion was that a better arrangement of the Norwegian owner-taxation, and in particular of the property tax on working capital, could lead to Norwegian capital being better able to create new jobs through productive and value-creating investments. There was, therefore, a majority in the Committee which agreed on a gradual reduction in the wealth tax on working capital in order to strengthen Norwegian employment. In its programme, the centre party says that they will work for a tax system to help hold the capital of the companies and which can be used to invest. Will the Central Party continue to work to reduce this strange tax and remove it in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e710	We have now been involved in a broad tax settlement consisting of 17 different points, and one of the contributions we have brought into the debate is what we are now doing with the property tax. We have believed that there has been a distortion of the wealth tax system which means that there has been a harder tax on wealth in terms of operating resources, so-called working capital, than that, for example. has been on property. So we mean that what's happening here is an improvement in the wealth tax. We'll have to discuss whether we're going even further in that direction, but now there's a broad deal, and it creates predictability for those who are going to invest. We've also been at those points where you see an unfortunate amount of property tax, and you can find adjustments that make individual companies not so hard to deal with in different economic cycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e717	The centre party is involved in the tax settlement and some of the items concern property taxes. I think it is very gratifying that you are now participating in a valuation discount on shares and operating funds of 20 p.m., and in addition, the points No. 4 and 5 in the tax settlement. But it is also the case that the Workers' Party has a comment here that they stress ‘that the conciliation does not bind the level of the property tax’. I guess that means they're going to come up with a proposal to increase it at some point. The Right Party and the Advance Party say in a note that they want to lower the property tax and the tax on working capital. But the Center Party doesn't say anything about it. What does the Center Party even mean? Do they think that this is good as it is in the agreement, will they lower the wealth tax in the future, or will they increase it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e725	What we've been busy about over time is not to have the advantage of investing in property that you've now had – which has generated too much capital into the property sector compared to other parts of the Norwegian economy – among others. by supporting a higher value of secondary housing. We believe that it is right to offer a discount in addition to shares and operating resources, so that if one is wealthy, it is in the short term wiser – based on a wealth tax position – to drive the money into property than in other types of business. That's why we're involved in this agreement, and it signals what we think is right to do. Then we have made a priority very clear now: we believe that using depreciation rates is a good tool because it contributes to the profitability of the business here and now, whether the owner is wealthy or not, and because we believe that it is more focused on creating investments and activity in the individual business. There's a main priority here, and then we want to stick together about the property tax with the other parties, like we do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e735	Thanks also from me to the Committee and to the rapporteur for good and constructive cooperation. Let me start with some comments and reflections about the process itself. It has, in my view, been inconclusively positive that all the parties in the committee have spent time together to discuss and reflect on, with a very open mind, the way in which the tax system for the future should be. It has been generous and I hope that we can transfer this form of work to several major issues, not just clarify them through bilateral discussions and comments. I think the result of what we're discussing today would be worse if we had chosen an ordinary procedure. I would particularly like to thank SV, who contributed with good intelligible contributions to the discussions we had, and who through it has also influenced the final result, even though the totality of them was too difficult to join in at the end. So to the cause itself – better tax: one can of course ask the question whether a tax is better than another. The answer is quite simple: if we manage to create a tax system that has great upswing and legitimacy, where people and businesses pay their taxes if not with joy, then at least with great understanding that it is necessary, and that in order to get back for paid taxes, is of great value for both themselves and the community, we have come a long way towards better taxes. The tax reform left behind today is not 100 pst. ideal, but one step in the right direction. Not least, it results in a high degree of sustainable business environment. The company tax will be reduced. There is still a level of taxation on enterprises and personal taxpayers. And Norwegian ownership in Norwegian companies becomes more profitable. There are some single elements I feel a need to comment: a lot of the noise around the tax system has revolved around the wealth tax in the last few years. The left has never been a driver for removing the wealth tax on so-called working capital, but in practice we are the only party that has been in charge of such a policy, because we have been alone for many years to be against the gradual slowdown of the previous government and finally the removal of the valuation discount for axes, and that it is only the Left who has been in the last three budgetary processes in the Storting that it is advisable to reintroduce such a valuation discount. It is therefore gratifying that a broad multiplicity now joins such a policy, with the same foundation as the Left has advanced for a long time. In the tax statement, the government actually proposes tightening the tax depreciation rules. Among other things, it is suggested that start-up writing for machines should be discontinued in 2017. Left says that favourable depreciation rates are a tool that can be targeted at increasing investment, technology development and getting a more environmentally friendly engine fleet. We do not share the general theoretical ideas of the plurality of what kind of means of operating it will at any time be socially profitable to invest in, and how damaging it will be if the tax system is not set up neutrally enough. It is also useful to show that increased depreciation rates have been a successful tool that has been used several times. in the context of the financial crisis in 2009, and as several of the parties that are now behind the plural considerations have been included in their alternative budgets in the last few years. It would be a strange policy to abandon one of the most successful measures from the financial crisis when we are in the midst of a new crisis, with increasing unemployment. The agreement entered into contains a point on the increase of taxes on the financial sector. I have always taken note that the Left's connection to this point is completely dependent on which model the government and the plural finally ends up with. For the Left, it is irrelevant that large parts of the tax reform are financed by the fact that services such as ordinary taxpayers are major consumers of housing loans and insurance are becoming more expensive. Solutions that only increase the tax burden on the financial sector lead to increased costs for customers in general and families at the start-up stage, especially, such as: VAT on insurance and loans, will not be supported by the Left. The left does not share the view of the majority that lower corporate taxes must be combined with adjustments to the rent tax. Such a policy makes it fiscally less profitable to invest in renewable energy, such as hydropower, and more fiscally profitable for the petroleum sector, contrary to the developments required by the climate, and contrary to the direction of the Government Party and the Left and the Christian People's Party expressed in the 2016 agreement on the state budget, where we jointly commit ourselves to a future tax conversion of a size that strengthens climate reconciliation and provides significant reductions in climate change emissions. The tax can be better. What we're doing today is a first, but not a last, step in such a direction. The budget for the autumn will follow up both the decisions we are making today and the changes to make the tax system greener, in line with the budget agreement last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e766	I was inspired by – it may be to go on – to listen to the party leader of Breivik in Political Quarter today early. There she claimed that it was the large batches that brought oil money up to a much too high level – as we have today. I think that was going on, because the Left has voted in favour of all the government’s increases in oil money, as far as I have followed it, and also contributed to further increases. My question is about the Left's reservation on financial taxes, which is the very thing of the day, on which there is now a consensus. When the Left says no to the containment side, does another increase in the use of oil money plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e773	A little poem from one hobbyist to another: You know, when we pull on, we must have full fuzz on the guitar! When the Left is skeptical about the financial tax and initially against it, it's because everything suggests that it's hard to introduce something like that without an indirect tax on the consumer, most people. It is also a paradox that the plurality is now well funded by the main objective of tax reform, lower corporate taxes, by increasing the tax on one industry – all equal, but not all equal – and perhaps the industry that is most important for the rest of industry purely financially and in terms of capital. For the left side, the answer is much smarter and simpler: rather, this kind of means are collected through green taxes and taxes. It would have contributed not only to a smaller tax on income and company income, but also to solving the climate crisis. So this is how I regret that the Labour Party is not together with the Left in being a driver in that way, but instead it is a driver of a tax that is not particularly easy to introduce – and you know it Hagebakken well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e782	I've had the pleasure of being at the concert with Breivik on the guitar, and he's also very good at the A-string. I don't know if we're completely capable of finding the tone here and now, but I think maybe in a given situation we could have had a good prognosis. But I must be allowed to ask briefly, at the end of the day: Is it such that Breivik believes that today's level of oil money usage is optimal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e789	There is no doubt that the Stortinget cannot continue at every opportunity we have, whether we adopt the annual budget or the revised budget, to find good explanations that the no-situation defends oil spending beyond what is necessary from the previous year. It's not viable on sight. The left has been a driver and not least shown the way through our alternative budget, and we have been a heavy, alternative voice in all the budgetary negotiations I have shared.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e794	The representative Breivik was about the importance of better taxation and of stimulating employment through the tax system in the future. It is clear that the reduction in corporate tax, which we agree on, is important, but it is also important, of course, to balance this in terms of coverage. Several have been involved in different ways of eroding our tax base, and the fact that the financial industry is exempt from VAT is clearly part of that picture. I understand the concern of the representative Breivik to send a bill to most people and businesses, but we would like to do so for other parts of the VAT system. Is there really any reason why the financial industry should be exempt from VAT, or equivalent, in relation to other industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e801	As a matter of principle, it is easy to agree with Siri A. Meling, but we have tried to do this a few times before, with previous governments – i.e. introduce a tax or some form of VAT into this industry, which I believe is supposed to achieve what is intended for the parties that are the drivers of it, i.e. a somewhat less favourable framework for parts of that industry. The problem immediately comes up, as we've seen in these discussions, that if it ends up with a pure VAT, one will actually move almost the entire bill to most people. An average household size of NOK 5000 to NOK 6000 per year may be added to the calculation. So that's our main reason why we're essentially against it -- at the same time as we're on the deal, with some rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e809	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e812	First of all, I would like to congratulate the conciliators on a settlement. As you know, SV is not satisfied with the whole agreement, but I particularly want to raise the introduction of a financial tax, which was also mentioned in the line change here. SV was almost alone in Norwegian policy to go to elections to introduce this tax in the 2013 election campaign. Now there is an overall increase in funding, and it is important to treat the financial industry in the same way as other industries and to ensure that the financial industry is not subsidized rather than other productive industries in Norway. We are very pleased about that. Otherwise, I believe that the conciliation involves lost opportunities. Firstly, the vast majority of the actors in the Norwegian debate, from the Scheel Committee to most economists who have expressed themselves publicly, recommend modernising the tax system and smoothing the imbalance between property taxes on one side and income and property on the other. Lower taxes on ordinary and low income, a lower general tax rate and more taxes on property are the way to go, both for a more well-functioning tax system and not least to create a more redistributive tax system, which also creates a more stable housing market and thus also increased financial stability. This had the chance to go into this round. It chose the Storting not to do, and that is what we believe to be a sin. Less inequality gives more opportunities for more people – that's how easy it is. There is a lot of research that shows the importance of small differences in a society. Norway is a very good example of what it is possible to achieve if you are looking for small differences between people. That's why it's so sad that the conciliators in this open-eyed agreement choose to give very large tax cuts to those who have the most from before. One may well continue the semantic debate here in the Chamber on whether it is to be considered a tax cut because one lowers the valuation instead of a tax rate. It is a debate for those who are particularly interested. Besides, it's misleading. It's so obvious that if you give big discounts on property, with the result that someone pays less taxes on wealth, it's a tax cut. This is even evident from the letter from the Minister of Finance, which gives the proceeds of this conciliation. It is clearly stated in the table ‘Reduce taxes on wealth’. There is no doubt that this agreement provides tax cuts for some of the richest, as the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party have also confirmed in their speeches and replies today. SV is very busy balancing the gap that exists today in the taxation of wealth and property. But there's a lot of ways to do it, and the clearly worst way to do it is to give big tax credits to the very wealthiest in the country. As a result, the richest 0.2 per million of the country's population get an average tax cut of NOK 326 100 each. There is an almost unintelligible poor distribution profile on this. There are others who mean it. I have previously mentioned the President of the Newspaper today. I want to quote a little bit further from it. The Chairman of the Tax Report stated in the Newspaper that: ‘Today, the tax reform in Stortinget is being addressed. It gives, as the Labour Party repeated and repeated in the election campaign, more to those who have the most from before. Nevertheless, Ap has chosen to support this reform. It is politically incomprehensible and tactically unwise.’ In addition, the Newspaper writes: ‘The distribution profile is hair traveler’.» Furthermore, the Newspaper writes the following: ‘The estimates in the agreement therefore appear to be little more than a purely gift package for an exclusive and prosperous group.’ And they complete with the following: ‘By agreeing to this agreement, the Ap counters its own political objectives while taking a hopeless position in the debate on Difference Norway.’ And this isn't just theory. So it's pretty silly if you're going to clean up after years of tax cuts from the Right and the Advance Party, to start off by giving yourself a 1.4-billion handicap. kr, which is given to the most wealthy in the country. I'll bring this up with the SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e846	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e851	The representative Serigstad Valen shall have a large ‘creed’ for his genuine commitment to those seated at the bottom of the table. Tax is important when it comes to distribution, but the most important thing is that people have a job. It'll cancel out the differences. I note that SV made a proposal that the government would return to Stortinget with a proposal to reduce the VAT from 10 pst. down to 8 pst. If it's going to work, it actually has to mean that people can afford to go and buy the food. Does not the representative Serigstad Valen see that Norwegian private investors also play an important role in establishing businesses, and thus jobs, so that more people can get jobs? Since the representative Serigstad Valen is opposed to looking for more oil and gas, which in turn reduces the revenue of the state: who does he mean to fund these new jobs that we need to them at the bottom of the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e858	This line illustrates a lot of my point. So a few minutes ago, the Workers' Party was standing here right now, insisting that the conciliation does not involve tax cuts. Now I'm challenged by the Workers' Party on why I don't want to be involved in cutting taxes on business. This is the problem. This is a self-objection. The working party knows in the heart that it is not wise to cut the taxes to the richest. They also know deeply that the rhetoric about property tax related to employment is misleading. It says the government's own Menon report. That's what the Workers' Party report said, as they got from the SSB last week. Why SV does not want to participate in the property tax, I have a simple answer to that question. Jonas Gahr Støre has actually said it more precisely than I get, and he said that to AUF's summer camp last year – that 10 pst. the population controls half of its wealth, is an argument against a cut in the taxes on wealth. If this is an argument against a cut in the wealth tax, at least 1 400 of the richest people in the country get NOK 326 100 each, must be a good argument against a cut in the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e865	Self-destination and self-destination. I recognise the representative Serigstad Valen and SV for their strong commitment to distribution. And I fully agree that tax is an important instrument in that way. Not least, it is very important when it comes to the legitimacy of the tax system, to pay taxes according to their ability, and, of course, to pay the richest. There will also be, to the greatest extent possible, the new tax system that we are going to adopt today. But does the representative Serigstad Valen think it makes sense to introduce investors investing in property, rather than those investing in production companies and establishing jobs around the districts? Isn't he just kind of agree that it's right to treat the property like what we've done at least for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e870	I talked about this in my article. I believe, of course, that it is wise to treat property and other property in a non-discriminatory manner. Therefore, SV has been alone in the Stortinget to dry to propose a property tax, which almost any economist on the western hemisphere recommends the Stortinget to introduce, but which none of the politicians dare to propose, even though they know in their heart that it must. Furthermore, we would very much like to increase the value of property within the wealth tax. It has none of the other parties' stomachs to suggest. And that's how if you want to treat property and property in the same way, it's clearly the most unsocial way to do it, to lower the taxing of shares because it's so purposely hitting the richest. SV was first out of proposing to lower the corporate tax during this period. We were first faced with proposals to seal the tax leakage that multinational companies represent, to the rest of the world. And we're strong followers of much better depreciation schemes to promote those who invest and change through a tough time for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e877	I would first like to thank SV for having been in the discussion for a long time – even though they did not come along until the end – and made important contributions to the settlement and the consensus that is now available. But they chose to go out, and of course we have to respect that for an overall assessment. Among other things, this is about property taxes, and it is about the taxation of property, which the representative was involved in. It is clear that professional economics are the proper taxation of property, in such a way that it cannot be moved and can thus be an ideal tax item. But the representative is concerned about distribution, and the fact that people in Norway own their own housing, is also an important part of the equality of our society and has a self-value, which the other parties, with the exception of SV, recognise. Can the representative see that there is a point in that self-esteem by many owning their own property?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e884	I want to compliment you back. I think the negotiations were marked by a serious and factual tone, and they were well led by Mr Meling. It was an overall assessment that made us withdraw – that's right. So to the question: I and SV fully agree that it has a great value that as many as possible in Norway owns their own home. Therefore, we are deeply concerned that property is such an interesting object of speculation as it is in Norway today. It pushes prices much more up than what was necessary, and it makes fewer people afford to buy their own home. For example, it does. that we have to impose equity requirements, which I want to defend without delay, but which, of course, lead to fewer people getting in. It's to worry about. That is why we want to introduce a property tax to be compensated through the corresponding cut in the tax on low and medium-sized income. In that way, people don't end up paying more in taxes, but those who own a lot pay more, and those who haven't had the money to get into the housing market get more opportunities to save and build up equity to get their own housing. So I believe that a well-designed property tax is an important prerequisite for keeping to the Norwegian ideal of owning their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e891	I have registered that the representative Serigstad Valen is a person who likes to read books. Even I like to read books about different political ideologies, and I will therefore use the opportunity in the reply to ask for a book recommendation. I have not yet found any literature describing this strange form of socialism, in which one almost idolises large foreign capitalists and will give them economic advantages in terms of lower tax levels than normal, reliable Norwegian-owned family businesses competing in the same market. Can the representative help me with literature in this area, or does he himself want to try to explain the logic behind this strange socialist position?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e896	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen – for book review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e900	I will gladly recommend the book Capital in the 21st century of Thomas Piketty. He describes in a simple and easy-to-understand way how the differences increase, not just in Norway, but globally, precisely because so few countries tax wealth in a good enough way. As a result, the vast majority of people in society have fewer opportunities to live up to their potential, and this leads to a small elite sitting on ever more power at the expense of popular rule and, to some extent, this hall as well. Then it's a big problem that many of the foreign companies operating in Norway barely pay taxes. A much-mentioned example is Google, which has a billion-dollar turnover in Norway, and which pays very little tax. Massive profits are moved out of Norway due to loopholes in tax legislation. So if the representative Steffensen is very concerned about the tax leakage from Norway, I recommend that he vote for the more than 20 proposals SV promote in this setting to stop tax havens and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e907	The same type of proposal might have added more parties to SV if they had chosen to be more involved in the negotiations. Nevertheless, the Labour Party and the other parties that did not support the government's proposals for reform have received the government on some important proposals, which have been mentioned here earlier. Professional secrecy of lawyers shall be assessed. We're going to see if the law is designed to tackle financial instruments and corporate structures. We need to have the BEPS process fast in port. We need to have increased work with country-by-country reporting, for example. What kind of assessment does the representative Serigstad Valen make of these proposals, and does he agree that these are good, strong proposals that make this agreement actually have a positive impact on Norwegian tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e912	As I said in my post, and as is also evident from the setting, SV is excited about many of the points that Wickholm now mentioned. It is important to combat tax evasion. It is important to increase efforts against tax havens. I don't think the deal goes far enough, but it's an important step in the right direction. We express support for those points. When we can't support the whole deal, it's because we think it's a special kind of logic that it should be that the entrance ticket to get the Stortinge to fight tax havens and tax evasion is to give very targeted tax cuts to the richest elite in Norway. For me, it's very counterintuitive. Rather, it should be that, across the right-left axis, the Storting should be able to gather at an earlier stage on a very large number of measures that are now finally in place. Unfortunately, the large amount of money that is being moved in this tax reform is not the money that we get stopped, that flies out of the country today and into tax havens. The big money is the richest in Norway that gets. Against that background, it was with a heavy heart that we left the negotiations for a tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e922	The parties behind the tax settlement argue that lower taxes will improve resource use and thus strengthen the basis for investment, with the effect that unemployment is expected to decline. It's as well-known as questionable, but at best – as far as it works – it takes time, and time is one of the things we don't have. We have little time to create new jobs; we have more people without jobs in Norway now than in the banking crisis in 1993. With an economy that is in the middle of a transition — some would call it a crisis — the question of whether we can afford to charge us reduced taxes, when one of the most important needs is investment in this transition. We're at a crossroads in Norway. Our revenues from the oil and gas sectors are going down, and they're going to go down, regardless of whether we decide on a responsible and climate-oriented closure of the oil industry, as proposed by the Green Party, or whether we only continue with full gas, for which both red and blue batches are working. The result in the long term is going to be the same. We're going to get – or at least we're going to get – less income to finance our well-being in the future. At the same time, the government is increasing the use of oil money, both the previous government and this government, over and over again. In times of crisis, it is possible to have sympathy, but Norway has been shaking the pig for many years, and it is becoming more and more problematic to defend that type of activity. The Greens do not support a proposal for a cut in the taxes on wealth. We're a follower of a change in property taxes that reduces the benefit of unproductive property investment, and we're a follower of finding solutions that protect the productive part of capital. But we must note that all parties have difficulties in finding arrangements in the area that works. What we encourage, on the other hand, is to look more closely at, and, therefore, to promote a proposal, is an instrument that will have a more direct impact on the problem we face – that is, both creating jobs and creating new investments and start-ups – and such an instrument is to reduce the employer’s tax. We promote a proposal to assess the impact of reducing the employer’s tax by one percentage point, while looking at ways of compensating for it. The advantage of this is that it directly affects the problem – the problem of unemployment and the problem of job creation. A reduced employer's fee will make labour more competitive compared to capital, and it will be an incentive to make business owners hire more people, and that is what we need. It will also be an action to get new countrymen in work – significantly more effective than different versions of labour discounts, as we have seen proposed. It will, of course, cost money to implement such a measure, but the aim is not to finance such a change by drawing even more money from the oil fund. On the other hand, a reduced employer’s tax may be financed by an increased tax on consumption. This is in fact in line with the view of the partner MDG and the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, which has given this advice to Norway: Taxes should be financed through increased taxes on property and consumption. The government proposes to reduce the tax. The Green Party supports the reduction in corporate tax in order to stop capital leakage abroad, but the government will not take the political burden of raising taxes in other areas to collect the money we need to finance the transition. The question then is who is going to pay the bill. Is it future generations, or is it future governments, that have to take the sense and cut welfare goods in order to balance taxes? A tax conversion that increases the price of environmentally harmful consumption will give us less of what we want less of, and it will give us money to fund more of what we want more of, namely jobs. The economic crisis we are facing today is serious for those who are affected by it, but it is also an opportunity for Norway to think anew in a greater transformation of business than we have ever faced. That is why we call for labour costs to be reduced and for this to be financed by taxes on consumption, in line with the recommendations of the professional community. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e943	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e946	Since the large tax reform in 1992, Norway has had a relatively stable and well-functioning tax system. It has contributed to predictable and good business framework conditions. The main principles of the reform, such as a broad tax base and low tax rates, are based on the fact that we are now adapting the tax system to international developments. International competition for tax bases between countries is increasing. Many countries, including our Nordic neighbouring countries, have significantly reduced corporate tax in recent years. At the same time, companies operating in several countries have greater opportunities than before to adapt to the overall tax reduction. It is essential that we have a competitive tax system that facilitates the creation of new jobs. The tax system must promote growth. In addition, the Norwegian economy is facing demanding changes. Oil and gas activities will be an important industry for Norway for many years to come, but it will not provide the same strong growth impulses to the mainland economy as we have been accustomed to. Part of Norwegian business must therefore turn to new markets. This is why we already took a major step in the budget of the year to follow the recommendations of the tax committee. Among other things, we reduced the tax rate on general income for companies and persons from 27 to 25 p.m. At the same time, the government made a big step forward with proposals for a tax reform for the 3-year period 2016-2018. The purpose of the tax communication was to reach broad political agreement on the future tax system. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority of the financial committee has joined the main features of the government's proposals. It will contribute to the predictability and stability of Norwegian business. One of the main objectives of the tax reform is to make the Norwegian economy more growth-intensive. It is worth investing in Norwegian jobs, and it is worth working. Work and activity are the basis for our common well-being. The tax settlement on the Storting provides that the corporate tax rate is to be reduced to 23 pst. by 2018. The government's proposal was to reduce the rate to 22 pst. The analysis of the tax sample showed that the reduction in corporate tax may have major positive dynamic effects. The sample assumed that between 20 and 40 pst. of the initial estimate from a longer-term rate reduction would be offset by higher tax revenue. This is because lower tax rates will increase investment, save and increase labour supply. Although the tax settlement provides for a smaller reduction in corporation tax than in the government's original proposal, I also notice that it is to be considered as part of the settlement further reductions in the light of developments internationally, and especially in our neighbouring country. At the same time, the corporate tax base should be extended somewhat, including: by introducing more accurate depreciation rules for some operating assets and a stricter interest-rate limitation rule. In order to remedy the weakness of the non-payment of VAT by the financial sector, the tax settlement provides for the introduction of a financial tax from 2017. The wealth tax has several weaknesses. It makes saving less profitable, and the bias in the valuation of various assets helps to distort investment away from business. In the tax communication, the government warned that property taxes should be further reduced and an assessment of targeted reliefs to business-related capital. I have therefore noted with satisfaction that a broad majority of the Committee believes that a reduction in the wealth tax on working capital can lead to Norwegian capital being better able to contribute to the creation of new jobs through productive and value-creating investments. In the agreement, there is agreement to introduce a 20 pst valuation discount. in the taxes on wealth on such capital by 2018. In the revised budget of the year, the Government announced that a temporary and demarcated deferred property tax scheme will be proposed for owners of accounting deficit operations in the next year’s budget. This will be an answer to point 4 of the tax settlement, to take into account liquidity challenges for these corporate owners. Another main objective of the tax reform is to protect the basis of corporate tax and to discourage the transfer of profits to low tax countries. Lower corporate tax rates will make profit-moving less profitable than today, but it will not solve the problem. In the tax communication, the government proposed a number of measures to counteract profit movements. It is particularly important to follow the recommendations made by the OECD and the G20 last October, the so-called BEPS recommendations. Norway has been actively involved in the formulation of these recommendations, and the government will work towards their rapid and as complete implementation as possible. As an important part of the follow-up, the rule of limited interest for companies should be extended to cover external interest. At the same time, the rule should be designed in such a way as to minimise the burden on ordinary loan conditions. As I said, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the pillars and direction of the future tax system. In addition, this government wants to reduce the level of taxation and to make it easier to benefit not only businesses but also people. In the tax communication, the government agreed to adjust the new step tax so that the total marginal tax is reduced by 0,8 pst. from 2016 to 2018 for most taxpayers. It will stimulate increased work. The government also wants to further reduce taxes on wealth in the years to come. The main objective of the tax reform is to increase the growth of the economy and contribute to the necessary transformations. We want to reduce taxes because we need a competitive business in the years to come. The time for implementing the facilitations is also good. The business community will be happy that the changes are coming now. I would also like to remind you that, in the past, there has been a broad consensus in the UK that fiscal policy should facilitate growth and employment in private businesses. At the time of the introduction of the code of action in 2001, an overall finance committee brought forward a lower tax rate, together with an increased focus on transport and knowledge, such as growth-promoting. Despite the opposition trying to give the impression that this government has used a large part of the space for action for tax relief, it is a fact that only 11 pst. the operating space of this government period has gone to tax reliefs. I therefore believe that there is still more room to reduce taxes, so that it stimulates new investments and more jobs and freedom for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e981	As the Minister of Finance knows, we are also very pleased that there has been a broad settlement, and I agree with the assessments that the Minister of Finance gives for what value it has for predictability in the future, not least for business and then also for Norwegian jobs. In my article I raised the question of what will be important in the future. I would like to say, for my part, that some of the most important thing is to ensure how the economic activity that is taking place in our country also provides a tax base in our own country. That's what gives the welfare society we're part of, and we're trying to preserve together. Does the Minister of Finance agree that this is an important challenge? In case yes, what will she do to preserve this foundation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e990	I totally agree with that. It is absolutely essential that we have fiscal rules that are competitive, precisely because it will contribute to increased tax revenue in the future. The assumption for increased tax revenue is that we have more profitable enterprises that are in the tax position. This is precisely why it is important for us to attract companies to invest in Norway rather than to establish themselves outside the country’s borders. It is important that we ensure the profitability of enterprises already established in Norway. This is precisely why it is important signals, which also come through the tax conciliation, that a future tax system is not only about the level of corporate tax, but also about the extraordinary tax on property taxes, which primarily affects Norwegian-owned companies in Norway, which we have many of them along the coast and in the districts. I am pleased with the agreement that has come about in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e995	To follow up the problem: there was one part of it. The second part is the international actors operating in several countries and, as we might say, shop both tax rules and the basis for depreciation, deductions, etc. In my view, it could also threaten some of the foundations of a sound tax system in our own country, but also in many countries. So the challenge is also on the part that has a more international average, how the government will follow up just to ensure that the activity that's going on here, even more so in the future, gives something back to the community here, also in the form of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1001	First of all, it's a problem I also notice that it's, I think, unanimity in the committee that is important that we follow up on the work that has been done by the government in the international forums for very many years. I can inform Mr Syversen that this afternoon I am going to the OECD meeting in Paris, where again the issue of further development and follow-up of this type of legislation will be on the agenda. Norway has an active role to play in this. We have been fully in the driver’s seat to implement this type of action, and are now also preparing the possibilities to further develop this more quickly, not least from the Norwegian side. But we have to make sure that we do it in a context and in a way that does not make it more difficult for Norwegian tax authorities in the pursuit of tax evasions internationally, but that strengthens our ability to cooperate internationally to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1006	I want to follow up a bit of what the representative Syversen is into. If there is something of particular dissatisfaction -- to say it that way -- for Norwegian companies, which are often characterised by their small and local size, it is that they cannot benefit from the benefits of large, complex companies, which can use their size and advanced financial instruments to avoid taxes. One of the important points on which agreement has been reached in Stortinget is to review this legislation, but also - as I have been discussing here in the past - whether the disclosure obligation should include the purpose of transactions, and that we also assess the confidentiality of lawyers in tax matters, so that we are sure that we can get to the bottom of these kinds of issues. When can we expect a follow-up from the government in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1011	Let me first say that I fully agree with the need for measures to combat profit movements. The government has made a number of proposals to counteract this. I notice that there is broad agreement to implement them. Not least, it is what Wickholm himself says about a competitive disadvantage for small Norwegian companies that do not have the same adaptability as larger international companies. I can assure the representative of Wickholm that the government will work as quickly as possible to follow up the consensus expressed in the tax notice. But I want to stress that even if the government works fast, we also have to work hard. It's important that we design these things in a way that is rapidly feasible. There are many complicated questions – to put it a little cautiously – that are discussed and addressed in the tax return.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1018	We know that the government likes to work very hard, for example. with the ownership register, where Stortinget is also hungry for feedback. But I want to ask another question. In the government's proposal to Stortingen, it is not recommended to do anything about the protection rate. It is a proposal which the Labour Party had in its proposal and has withdrawn from the negotiations, and which has been described here as negative. On the contrary, the working party sees that it is a positive measure to have a protection rate that works, in order to prevent money being stowed away when they can have an active and participatory presence in Norwegian companies, as described in the Scheel report.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1025	These are technically difficult questions, but I have noticed what the majority has said about this in the vote. I would like to stress, however, that it is important that we find a good balance in the design of this legislation. We have to have good incentives that also provide companies with the ability to reinvest their capital without the tax rules getting in the way of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1030	I want to read from the Health Declaration, and it says: ‘To review and improve the tax depreciation rules in order to make Norwegian business more competitive.’ The tax depreciation rules need to be improved. Why is the Progress Party against it now? Why could not the Progress Party in the Great Britain follow the Health Declaration when we had this discussed in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1040	I have noted the commitment of the representative of the Battle of Vedum through this debate, linked quite unilaterally to the depreciation rules. Let me say that both in the party program of the Progress Party and in the government platform, the issue of tax is essentially about making the Norwegian tax system more competitive because we want more legs to stand on. We want a business that can take new investments, create new jobs and create new opportunities for Norway. This has been taken seriously by the government, and that is precisely why since we joined the government, we have reduced the overall level of taxes and taxes in Norway by 18.5 billion. kr. One might blink out a single rate of depreciation, but I think, with all due respect, that even though Battle Violence Vedum seems to be concerned about this, his own party has put forward proposals in Stortinget to increase taxes by over 15 billion. kr. I'm not sure the net benefits for Norwegian companies will be positive with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1045	I was asked earlier in the debate by the Progress Party to recommend a book, and I was going to return the service, because the Council of State boasted in its intervention how pleased she was that the wealth tax on so-called working capital would be reduced. I have to admit that I have tried to find sources that cut in taxes on wealth gives some effect to employment. The government's own Menon report says that's not the case, in that case it's marginal. What the Prime Minister rejected was called a school assignment, which is a master's project from the NHH, showed the same thing during the election campaign, and a report from the SSB showed much of the same thing last week. There are far more effective ways of providing more employment than cutting taxes on wealth. So can the council recommend me a book or a little reading that can explain how the government can all the time claim that cuts in property taxes and cuts in so-called working capital increase employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1050	Another thing that has shaped the debate on the tax reform has been the kind of marital dispute between the Workers' Party and SV. I have found it very entertaining, especially because SV now seems to be the only remaining on the Stortinget that holds on to the somewhat worn-out rhetoric about tax havens for the rich. So the property tax is curious, and it's a strange tax on Norwegian ownership. We have a significant number of Norwegian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises across the coast across the country that experience it as very demanding with this strange tax burden at a time when it is actually about saving businesses, saving jobs and laying the foundation for creating more. If we are to succeed in maintaining good welfare arrangements in Norway in the future, some people need to create those values so that politicians can distribute them. Then we need more, and not fewer, private companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1055	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1058	A broad political majority now agree on better taxation of enterprises in Norway. Norway needed a reform of corporate taxation, and we have. That's good news. The agreement on corporate taxation guarantees Norwegian companies a predictable tax regime that is well-respected with other countries. The changes that we agreed on provide the basis for increased investment in the Norwegian economy, increased tax revenues, more in work and therefore well-being. We make it more attractive to invest in Norwegian companies. At the same time, we are calling about the incomes of the community. This has been the dual objective of the Workers' Party since the start of work on changes in company tax rules. The Community must take great promise in the years ahead. We are not in the goal of expanding well-being and strengthening the foundation of value creation. We're going to be more, more older, more moving to cities, and we're going to reach the targets of 40 pst. reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. All of this means investment in common, and then we have to have a tax system that works. It was the Workers' Party in the Stoltenberg II government in 2013 that started work on the reform that is now complete. International developments required changes in corporate taxation. We took the first step when we proposed to lower the corporate tax from 28 pst. until 27 p.m., and we put down the Scheel Committee. So we have been working for a long time on tax changes that stimulate increased investment and more jobs. The fact that people are at work and that Norwegian businesses are creating more and more values and paying taxes is what can ensure our common well-being in the long run. At the same time, we are clear that we should also use the tax system to balance economic differences. Differences, great differences and injustices give freedom, and they also do not contribute to conversion. On the contrary, we have good grounds to claim that large differences weaken conversion and economic growth. Therefore, it was not appropriate for the Workers' Party to enter into a tax settlement that would have weakened our ability to pursue distribution policies through the tax system. With the tax settlement on corporate taxation in port, we have a better basis for conversion and investment in Norwegian business, while at the same time we can use the personal and income and wealth taxes to ensure a smoother distribution. Although we now agree on the structure of the tax system, there is still much to debate. The Labour Party is opposed to the unsocial tax cuts policy that the Right and the Progress Party have shown from their position in government. The first Right and Advance Party did, was to propose 8 billion. DKK in tax cuts – DKK 40000 for those with the highest incomes, and three to four hundred copies for ordinary people, money that was quickly eaten up at increased kindergarten prices for young children’s parents. In the 2015 budget, there were once again large tax cuts that were prioritised. Half of the tax cuts went to the 5 pst. richest in the country. At the opposite end of the scale, they proposed cutting benefits for the unemployed, sick, disabled and disabled. This year they've cut the commuting discount for people who have to commute to work, while still cutting the wealth tax. The Labour Party has voted against these wealth tax codes. The tax cut of the Fremskritsparte government has done little to create new jobs, but much to increase differences in Norway, and we see that this policy has worked poorly in the economic situation of the country. By means of the tax settlement, the Workers' Party has prevented decisions that would abolish the property tax. At the same time, we have had an impact on proposals to improve the valuation of this tax. With equal value, we stimulate increased investment in businesses and machinery parks and something less in property. This is a proposal that the Workers' Party presented in its alternative state budget for 2016, for which we have had an impact. It contributes to more productive investment – one of the objectives of the tax reform. There is nothing in this tax settlement that underpins the ability to pursue a much better policy of distribution than what the government is doing. A better wealth tax is an important basis for us to be able to conduct effective distribution policies even in the coming years. So, agreement on structure, disagreement on level. We will continue to have different views on the level of taxation and how much the richest people in Norway will contribute and how the tax system can contribute to distribution. It is a strength for Norway that we now have predictability of the structure of the tax system and corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1078	Norway has a good tax system in general. The 1992 tax reform has provided the basis for this. The basics and principles of this reform will continue in the present case. Nevertheless, any system should be reviewed from time to time with a view to the necessary temporal improvements. There is a consensus that the tax burden changes to some extent from taxes on companies, savings and capital more towards taxes on consumption and, in part, property. The aim is to provide a more positive dynamic impact in society. Some of us are particularly concerned that taxation of employment and business should have the effect of preserving jobs and creating new ones. The tax system should stimulate investment, active participation in enterprises and preferably in good conditions for private Norwegian business – this is because it will increase employment and value creation in the country as a whole. How we set up the tax for this very purpose is probably the most important tax policy instrument we have. It is popularly said about how society treats private owners of Norwegian business. The backlog of this business is the many small and medium-sized privately owned enterprises. Therefore, the taxation of ownership and how it is designed is crucial for this lifeblood in our working life. The broad consensus expressed in the majority comments on this issue largely responds to these challenges – at least a good deal on the way. The tax on ownership, the tax on dividends and the profit or loss of the companies themselves shall, as a whole, be at the present level. However, the composition of the tax becomes somewhat different, as profits in companies are less taxed, while dividends tax alone is slightly increased. There might be divided opinions about this composition, but in sum it's satisfactory. It takes into account other factors, such as: the relationship with what is happening in other countries, mainly our neighbouring countries. A pleasantly discussed area, to put it that way, is the property tax. The government of Stoltenberg and the majority of the population have taken some action here in recent years. Some of us think that there should have been more to the problem of the property tax. In particular, this applies to the part of the property tax linked to the value of ownership in Norwegian business, in the first row of the many family-owned enterprises, including issues that may result in taxes on enterprises that do not have an economic ability to return to owner. Fortunately, there is a proposal in this case that a good deal on the way is doing something about these problems. The introduction of a 20 pst valuation discount. will lead to a lower tax base and, in particular, the proposal that the payment of the property tax may be deferred when the asset is in use, is in deficit or otherwise has liquidity problems could remedy several private owners of businesses. In the proposal for an RNB, the government has taken this point into account with a view to its implementation from the 2016 income year. Another point of the consensus is the relationship with entrepreneurs. It should be noted that this group of traders in the context of stock market introduction can often come into a situation where the values and therefore the tax base for taxes on wealth tax are significant without the activity as such throwing anything away. Despite these points of agreement, there will still be serious issues for private Norwegian ownership of businesses. One issue is the injustice associated with Norwegian ownership vis-à-vis non-resident owners, which in its entirety exempts property taxes. This is and will be an unsustainable discrimination, which seems anti-competitive to Norwegian eyes. Furthermore, many businesses experience other forms of taxation that are increasing. More and more municipalities are introducing property taxes, in particular for works and uses. In addition, the very tariff base of the premises of the enterprises etc. often turned up. Thus, the sum of taxes on holdings and their owners can actually increase even if the wealth tax as such is reduced somewhat. Still, we're going to enjoy what we can, and welcome today's tax return with its improvements. And then some of us get to work on further improvements in private Norwegian ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1101	Today, we are discussing one of the most important elements of business policy. Many refer to this as a broad tax reform, but with respect to reporting – it is not. But it is a very important matter for Norwegian business. That's why I'm happy that we made a broad deal where many considerations are well taken care of. Both as a politician and not least as a former business operator and founder, I have been involved in business development throughout my adult life throughout the country. My favorite slogan, I have to admit, is 'to create to share'. After being a big-time representative for almost three years, I have been confirmed that the interest to participate in the ‘part-debate’ is probably greater than being in the ‘sheep debates’. The oil price began to fall and the companies related to the oil industry started to have problems. Now everyone is talking about transition, business start-ups and creating new jobs. Suddenly, everyone knows a founder or a three. That's good. But at the same time, we must be aware that even after we have made the tax decisions tonight, these jobs do not fall from heaven. In fact, some people have to set up these companies and the workplaces. Therefore, it is appropriate to stress the importance of an active industrial policy for the whole country. It's at least as important as before. I hope that after almost three years in the government offices, those who sit there have discovered that running business-neutral business policy is not the way to go. I hope that debate will come back to us on a later occasion. But the issue we are dealing with now will have a major impact on the possibilities of funding these new jobs. Whether you like the capitalists or not, Norway is also dependent on private investors. Those who do not want more oil exploration should be extra happy in Norwegian investors. In 2013, the government of Stoltenberg II reduced the corporate tax to 27 p.m. on the grounds of strengthening the competitiveness and profitability of the firms in mainland Norway. Now we have a broad majority that ensures a further reduction in corporate tax. It's absolutely necessary when we look around. If we are to be able to attract investment in Norway, corporate tax is important. We can hope this will make more foreign investors find it attractive to invest in Norway, which, of course, contributes more capital, but also with more knowledge. Anyway, I think we don't have so many other people than ourselves, that is. Norwegian investors, to trust. Fortunately, we have some people with a lot of capital, but we have a lot more with a lot of enthusiasm, but maybe not a lot of capital. Norwegian investors are otherwise not different from non-residents. Of course, they invest where the ability to make money is greatest. Therefore, it is so vital that we do not have a tax system that favours some sectors rather than others. We've had that, but with the agreement we're going to adopt tonight, we're making a quantum leap in balancing the tax favor that property investments have had. It is not wrong to invest in property, but to be premiered through the tax form when you do it, versus someone who invests in production equipment or shares, does not contribute to the transformation of growth in value creation that the country needs. So now it's not just going to be as nice to work as to dance, it's going to be just as nice to own a tastum and a filet line on Senja as to own an office building in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1116	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1119	The tax system is important for financing common good, ensuring social mobility and distribution, achieving efficient resource efficiency and providing good conditions for business across the country. We must have a tax system that strengthens private ownership. It is worth working, saving and investing. The biggest step in the tax reform is to reduce corporation tax to 23 pst. before 2018. For us in the Right, it has been important that one has achieved acceptance that the wealth tax has several problematic aspects. We are now in an era of increasing unemployment, especially in the South and West. We are undergoing a shift from a strong oil industry to a greater contribution by the mainland industry to the financing of increased expenditure on pensions, health and care. We need to create more jobs in the private sector. It is then important to have a tax system that stimulates and does not hinder the development of new enterprises and to facilitate the expansion of existing enterprises. Politicians cannot adopt new jobs; our task is to provide a good framework for business. Tax policy is particularly important then. The task of stepping down the strange wealth tax has been a priority area for this government. It is therefore gratifying that one in the tax settlement has come to an agreement on a depreciation discount in the property tax of 20 p.m. before 2018. Many small and medium-sized enterprises — often family-run — report major challenges in paying taxes on wealth when companies run out. It is very positive that, in connection with the 2017 state budget, we are asking the government ‘Evaluate the issue of taxes on wealth in relation to liquidity challenges for owners and businesses when companies are running short and there is no basis for paying dividends’. In this agreement, in conjunction with the 2017 State budget, a request for an assessment of the feasibility of: «a time-limited discount scheme in the property tax for founders by the stock exchange introduction of the respective company». These are very positive measures and signals that politicians see the problematic and challenging aspects that this strange tax has for business, and not least a willingness to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1147	It has been fun to follow the debate and the exchange of lines. I had never believed that the Progress Party's wish to have a speed limit of 110 km/h on motorways would be an argument to explain the basic plan in the tax settlement, but then it has happened. We can certainly say that there has been a change of mood in Norwegian policy with the Progress Party in government. On the other hand, everyone has spoken today about the need for lower taxes. In the reply, Mr Hagebakken said that what we are doing today will lead to increased investment and increased activity. While the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party in the 2013 election campaign talked about that less tax means less well-being, now all parties talk about the need to reduce taxes for both ordinary people and companies in the form of lower corporate tax. With the Progress Party in government, we no longer stand on the outside and fight in vain for our political solutions to be heard. Instead, we are the prime minister for the political debate. For more than 40 years, the Progress Party has believed that lower taxes will increase investment, increase activity and more jobs, and with today's decision, we will now be joined by the other parties to this argument. Some media have said that there has been a weakness in the Committee's work that there have been some delays in the conciliation. I rather think it's an explanation of how difficult it is to get a majority in this room to agree on a reduced tax. I am pleased with the steps we can take to draw the Norwegian tax debate in our direction, but I must honestly admit that I had hoped that we could have put a strain on this strange tax with today's decision. I think it is positive that the Workers' Party today recognizes that there are problematic aspects to the property tax, and that they are involved in a reduction, but I really do not understand this love especially the Workers' Party and SV have for this tax. I basically miss an explanation of why this hybrid socialism has been given sprout and sprout and root here in the country. What is it that a super-rich, foreign ultra-capitalist does that is so great and that leads Norwegian socialists to defend that this should have special advantages of owning businesses in Norway, while a Norwegian-owned family business has to pay a special tax to compete in the same market? It's almost as if the red-greens think it's a Sarepta jar that these businesses can step their fingers down into without having any consequences. But in these days, in fact, businesses, especially along the coast from Kristiansand to Kristiansund, experience great difficulties in getting the ends to meet. In these companies, the owners do not plan what to do with the profits. They wonder how to limit the deficit and secure Norwegian jobs, and they have to make dividends, which they have to use to pay taxes on wealth. So this is what the Working Party thinks and SV makes sense. I wish we could have done something about this special tax today, but we'll get to work on it in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1160	Tax debates in Norway — and in other countries, for that matter — often become caricious debates. At home, it has meant that the recording of this debate has been far too much about champagne corks rather than workplaces. It has been about envy rather than enthusiasm, and it has been about punishing the rich rather than about how we can facilitate a value-creating business. One of the key prerequisites for successful value creation in international competition is good framework conditions for private ownership in business. This applies in so far as it is independent of the extent of state ownership. State ownership also depends on strong private ownership, as an important foundation for the establishment and development of businesses. The tax on wealth has a detrimental effect on investment in Norway, perhaps especially in regions where the lack of private capital and ownership is even more apparent than in and around Oslo pot. The harmful effect is partly due to the tax rate and partly to the fact that the tax base for the calculation is much higher on investments in industry than on other investments and partly to the fact that it affects only owners in Norway with Norwegian passports. The first effect has been done by the government and the bulk of the population. The second comes into place now, but the special discrimination of Norwegian owners is not allowed until the tax is history. Paul-Christian Rieber, Managing Director of GC Rieber, held an excellent debate in March of the evening in which he explained the social aspects of the property tax. Last year the company went by 200 million. NOK in deficit. Yet they have to pay $20 million. kr in dividends to owners, so that they are paid the property tax. Financial spokesman in SV, my colleague Snorre Serigstad Valen, is often concerned with champagne and, in particular, champagne corks. I hope that Serigstad Valen, who is outside the conciliation, can explain the owners, but not least the employees of the company, why this makes sense. It is a mere extraction of equity, the basic capital itself and the security of each employee of an enterprise. This is not about champagne or champagne corks in Holmenkollen, but it may be about a potential tomb beer in Bergen and many other places in the country. The companies along the whole coast are not now in the think-tank and wonder what to do with the surplus – as was the representative of Steffensen. Many try to limit the deficit and keep employees in work. Nevertheless, they must pay taxes on wealth. I am pleased that there is now a large majority on the Stortinget who want changes in this field. In particular, it is gratifying that the Workers' Party now finally sees that lower taxes on jobs strengthen private Norwegian ownership, provide more jobs and more growth. It's taken some time, but now it's gone in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1175	SV is obviously not alone in conducting this debate on the basis of what they would like to see were the realities of this conciliation. In the last two posts, the Progress Party is also guilty of this. It's a gross oversimplification of what the tax settlement is. I think that when you make a settlement in the Storting, it's very wise to respect what the deal actually is, and not try to add to their conciliators' opinions other than what they really have. SV is outside the agreement, so in this way they have to be said to have a greater opportunity to criticise the agreement as a whole, but that representatives from the Progress Party go up and put words in the mouth of the Workers' Party about what is our policy as a result of this conciliation, I find relatively unwise if, in the future, you also want to have a broad deal with the Workers' Party and others. It has been explained on my behalf in the Chamber here today that the settlement is about to agree on a valuation of 80 pst. It is a proposal which was, moreover, the Labour Party's proposal, and not a full impact on the policy of the Progress Party, as it could be said when the representative Limi spoke earlier today. I thought that the Progress Party originally wanted to remove the entire wealth tax, not that this was the primary point of view. But we've really let go of that kind of debate with the other parties here today, because we've wanted to be on a broad deal. Another thing that the Workers' Party has been busy about, and that will come to the kind of business that Sivert Bjørnstad and Roy Steffensen also take up, for the benefit, is to have a protective deduction that works. It prevents money from remaining passive when they could be actively invested in businesses. It is a proposal that the Workers' Party has been a driver of at Stortinget, which I believe will be appreciated by the Norwegian business community, but which, on the contrary, was warned against from Sivert Bjørnstad and Roy Steffensen's party, in the tax notice. A little bit more roughness, a little less categorical and dogmatic debate, I think I'd be fooled if you tried to land a wide deal with parties with quite great tension in ideological perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1200	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1216	So my interpellation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, really, will be answered by the Minister of Finance. I think that's okay. After all, the Minister of Finance is the leader of the political party who has a policy that will take a different direction, a direction that will build up the Norwegian model and rather leave more of the governance to market forces. Norway is a country that is known for having small differences between people and most countries in the world. Without a doubt, that's the main reason why we've been in the United Nations' best country to live in for a long number of years. When we are a different country in this way, it is a result of many years of development and political choices that have counteracted differences. Wages and salaries, fiscal policies and welfare policies have worked together to achieve the policy objective of small differences among people in this country. Wages and salaries in Norway are characterised by central collective agreements. This form of settlement has been absolutely essential to distribute value creation more evenly between labour and capital than in most countries in the world. It has also ensured a level playing field throughout the country, as central collective agreements lead to wage developments similar to those of individual local agreements. The parties have also contributed to a high level of social responsibility by demonstrating moderation when necessary for the country. A good example of this is the year’s settlement, where the parties to the front trade agreed to a moderate settlement, but also to force the government to help the companies that have problems with better law-making. Increases in management salaries, both in public and private business, contribute to increasing differences. It also undermines social dumping, which undermines wages and salaries in several professions. Due to the lack of efforts to combat social dumping, we will have many more incomes that are difficult to live on, including in Norway. The negative development is further stimulated by the government, which eliminates collective legal rights, eliminates the non-discrimination requirement in temporary employment agencies, seems to accept unpaid employment between jobs and, not least, opens access to temporary employment without being in temporary employment. The sum of these are less secure jobs and pressures on already poorly paid jobs. Tax policy is essential to balance differences. A progressive tax system in which best advised people contribute most to the community has been a success for redistribution in Norway. During this great period, we have seen that the government and the majority of the population have used the budget space to give tax relief to those who already have the most. Despite falling revenues from the oil sector, the government has chosen to reduce tax revenues in a way that increases differences in the country. The government's claim that asset tax relief is growth-promoting lacks a professional basis. The Ministry of Finance's own ordered report from Menon shows that relief from taxes on wealth is not effective in creating activity. The same is true of the Scheel Committee's calculations, which were the starting point for the debate that has just ended here in the Chamber. Nevertheless, the government continues to strengthen the personal economy most for those who have the most, and the differences are increasing. The welfare policy is perhaps the part of the Norwegian model that most foreigners look at as typical Norwegian. Through secure funding through the tax system, we have provided a sustainable basis for shared well-being. Health services in Norway have been largely publicly funded; the services are publicly funded in cooperation with good forces in non-commercial non-profit institutions serving households. It will help everyone, regardless of their status and personal finances. Through government's eagerness to allow commercial actors to access us patients as a lucrative market, this principle is about to be undermined. Commercialisation of the school system will also make a greater difference in the supply. The common school teaches people with different backgrounds of cooperation and respect. It's good for cooperation later in life, and it contributes to equal opportunities for everyone. Few measures are more targeted if you want to increase the difference between people than undermining the community school. The idea of the tax-based welfare society is that we should all be able to deliver and get help as needed. In the context of increased unemployment, the government has gone counter-clockwise. When the government in its first government budget, for 2014, i.e. in the autumn of 2013, announced an increase in unemployment, the answer was that for the first time in history, we had reduced efforts in terms of a reduced number of action places. The government also tightened the law of the permit, while increasing the availability for the first time in history. It is part of the Norwegian solidarity that we all, including business owners, pay taxes, but then we pay back to business when they face challenges. In-house training is another system in which a period of low demand can be used to increase skills. But the government refuses to change the legislation, even though it would obviously put us in a better position to compete in the future. In other welfare areas too, the government has chosen to cut, even though they spend more money than ever. Those who lose their job as a result of bankruptcy receive a guarantee of pay for a shorter period than they received before. The government has cut the child plugin for the disabled. Different items such as aid, aids, gravitational assistance and other schemes were not priced last year – a total cut of more than 137 million. kr. for weak groups. The unemployed have also been cut. 1 380 B.C.E. The government has tightened the performance of the unemployed. Even though the government gives a lot of money in taxes, some people also have to pay more in taxes. Those who lose the job and receive termination benefits will now pay tax on it, 60 million. kr the government shall collect from them. And those who commute are going to pay more in taxes, even though the government is talking about the importance of labour mobility. The Norwegian model has won wonder in many countries. It has not only led to small differences with other countries; it has also produced good economic results. It turns out that small differences, equal opportunities for education and active cooperation in and with business are good for conversion and value creation. The OECD has also come to this conclusion. In their report ‘In It Together: Why Less Inequality Benefits All’ from May 2015, they demonstrate that increasing differences also damage the growth of the economy. In spite of this, the government is systematically choosing a policy that increases differences. So far, the so-called growth-promoting tax haven brought about the result that we are now dealing with a revised budget in which tax revenue goes down and oil money consumption goes up again. At the same time, unemployment is increasing. Statistical central agency can demonstrate that income disparities are increasing. Differences in wealth are increasing and the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing. At the national meeting of the Progress Party in 2013, Siv Jensen repeatedly attacked the Norwegian model. The new thing in the situation is that, unfortunately, she's got the Right and the supporting parties on that line. Now we see the results. Just as in Reagan's United States, the United Kingdom and Sweden under Reinfeldt, we see that economic liberalism is giving rise to greater differences, high unemployment and a less solidarity society. It will also deliver poorer growth and poor economic results. The Economist had an analysis in 2013 in which they proclaimed the Nordic model of the next supermodel. But instead of developing the further, Siv Jensen's political model follows Margaret Thatcher's recipe for decline. It's a shame for most people, and it's to the detriment of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1261	It is the government's goal that Norway should be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. High employment, universal welfare systems and a well-developed education and health system have contributed to fewer poorer and a more even distribution of income in Norway than in other countries. Nevertheless, there are people outside important social arenas, among others. due to poor economy and poor living conditions. The government will close the gaps in the security network for groups that are currently falling through and ensure better conditions, especially for children growing up in poor families. The right of children to a safe upbringing is fundamental. Norway is not unaffected by international trends moving towards increasing differences. Technological development and increasing automation change labour market skills requirements. As the Productivity Commission has explained, this can lead to increased polarisation in the labour market, where the demand for, and wages of, low-skilled workers are falling, while the demand for, and wages of, highly skilled workers are increasing. This draws towards increased wage differentials and increased capital income. We also see that the high level of labour migration to Norway has affected wage formation in the last ten years. Recent research shows that, after the EU enlargement in 2004, immigration from Eastern Europe has slowed wage developments in several industries. Power is highest in the construction industry. The high flow of refugees to Norway can also create challenges for Norwegian wage formation. If there are very many people who do not have or do not manage to achieve productivity that defends the lowest wages in the labour market, the sustainability of the welfare model will be challenged on the one hand and the downward pressure on wages and salaries on the other. If we are to counteract these trends and reduce disparities in the longer term, we need to ensure a well-functioning labour market where possible participation. A flexible labour market, good macroeconomic governance, active labour market policies and coordinated wage formation contribute to this. Furthermore, our education system must provide children and young people with good and relevant competences. The tax system and support schemes must be designed to support the creation of value and high levels of participation in the labour market. The integration of immigrants into the labour market is also very important. Integration programmes, Norwegian training, education and the effective monitoring of competences are key factors. The design of the tax system also contributes to the reduction of differences and continues to do so. However, it is primarily through funding education, health and care and public welfare that taxes and taxes contribute to the balancing of income and consumption opportunities in Norway. About three-quarters of the balancing between market income and disposable income takes place through transfers. In addition, the value of public services is added. The contribution from the design of the tax system is therefore relatively modest. This is the case in most countries that have a comprehensive tax-funded welfare system. The main challenge now for Norway is to create new, profitable jobs in the private competitive sector. In order to ensure our welfare level, there is a need for new activities that can contribute to high employment and high overall value creation. The government’s economic policy contributes to this, both through measures to absorb the growth of the Norwegian economy in the short term and by providing good framework conditions for future growth. In today's situation, monetary policy is the first line of defence in the face of weaker economic cycles. The krona has declined markedly and, together with lower wage increases, it has contributed to a significant increase in the cost competitiveness of Norwegian business. Budgetary policy is now actively used to mitigate the setback resulting from lower oil prices. In the revised national budget, the government proposes new targeted measures to combat unemployment in areas particularly severely affected. In addition, increased costs for integration are proposed. At the same time, economic policy must support the necessary transitions to the Norwegian economy. Lower growth contribution from Norwegian pedestal is a permanent structural change. The main role of the State now is to contribute to the rapid relocation of labour from oil-related industries to other competitive activities rather than to the public sector. To meet the structural challenges, the government will therefore work for a good framework for business, with a simpler and more growth-enhancing tax system, better infrastructure and a skilled workforce. It will strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Competitive enterprises will create greater values and secure jobs for the future. I am pleased that a broad majority of the financial committee, including the Workers' Party, has agreed on a tax reform, with considerable relief to Norwegian business, which will contribute to it. It is a pity that the representative Dag Terje Andersen was not present and followed the tax debate that was just concluded in Stortinget, where I noticed a rhetorical shift from the Workers' Party in the view of taxing Norwegian companies and Norwegian jobs. That consensus is important. But it's not going to be more right when Dag Terje Andersen repeats and repeats and repeats a crazy claim that that government has spent the most money on, is to reduce taxes, or that the government's main task in the fight against unemployment is to reduce taxes. Those are crazy claims. The government has spent most of the increased space for action on everything but tax cuts — but I also agree with every reduction we have made, as a basis for strengthening the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy and business. It is absolutely necessary that we have a competitive tax system, but in the face of increasing unemployment, the most effective concrete, fast-acting measures are. That is exactly why we reinforced the budget effort in the autumn by 4 billion. kr, targeted to the South and the West, and further reinforced this by nearly 1 billion. kr in the context of the revised budget. Several things need to be done at the same time, both addressing some of the short-term challenges with well-adapted instruments and addressing the significant migration challenges posed by the Norwegian economy through the tax system, through increased investment, by investing in research and development, and, in particular, through all the necessary improvements to our education system. We must ensure that the workers of the future have sufficient competence to meet the requirements that will be imposed from an increasingly specialised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1291	I can assure the Council of State that I followed the tax debate. As the Council of State is familiar with, it's up to you to do it from the office. I think it was a bit of a shame that the representative Marianne Marthinsen did not have the opportunity to be present, because she deserves a great reward for the way she and her people developed the Labour Party's alternative to what the government presented, which is to be confused like what was finally compromised. I agree with this every time that we as a party are involved in making broad compromises: I believe it is an important part of the governance of society in Norway that tax systems, pension systems or other important major issues are not subject to change at any government change – I fully accept that. There is also no new recognition for the Workers' Party that we are going to have a business-friendly tax. Although the Council of State has not got it along, this is a long tradition in the Workers' Party, partly by the option we are now introducing, and not least by the fact that when we were in government, we were at first reducing company taxation and putting down the Scheel Committee, which laid the foundation for the current treatment. Another question when agreeing on tax systems is that there may still be disagreement about the level of taxation in future discussions. So it's true, as the Council of State says, that there are a number of international trends moving towards greater differences. Not least, Thomas Piketty has shown it very clearly, both in terms of the distribution of income, and not least in terms of the distribution of wealth, that the world is soon back to the primitive distribution that was at the end of the 1800s. That's why we're asking the question of what we can do politically to counteract it. That is the question — not to let hop or to let development take place with major differences, but actually to put in place policy decisions to counteract major differences. Then I'm a little confused by the Council of State, because she initially said in her post – where she pointed to many trends that I can agree that are challenging for the country, the question is how to meet them – that we should still be a country of small differences. What's so confusing is that the Council of State says it, but it's always putting forward proposals that are increasing the differences, which we're now also starting to look at in statistics – even if things are a little late, and it takes a little while before new policies are put into effect. Now we see that the differences are increasing, that the differences in wealth are increasing, and that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing. Then the question is, will the Council of State be involved in doing anything about it, or will she just note?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1304	Let me first say that the consensus relating to the tax reform that has emerged in the Stortinget today is essentially based on the proposals made by the government before the Stortinget. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is joining in. What Andersen is right about is that this is primarily a debate on system, not a debate on level... [[light goes into the hall]] Let me comment on the question of what we're going to do to counteract increasing differences. First, there are no increasing differences in Norway. I just want to refute that claim. Norway is a country with small differences, and we will continue to be a country with small differences. So the reason why we're doing this is the broad consensus we have in Norway that we should have widely developed tax-funded welfare schemes. The prerequisite for maintaining this is that we have a broad range of companies that pay taxes, which are profitable, that go well and that are willing to hire more people. So it's a very crucial condition for a country with small differences that people are at work. That is why we need to do what we can to qualify our citizens to participate in an increasingly specialised labour market, and of course we need to facilitate the creation of new businesses and new jobs around the whole country, especially at a time when we know that total employment related to oil and gas-related business will fall. Then it is absolutely right that the OECD has produced a report on increasing differences. There is every reason to worry about this, and that's exactly why we work in international forums – to see what we can do internationally, not least with tax legislation, to prevent profit movements and to stop tax rules that make it possible to avoid taxation by moving profits and moving from country to country. There has been a good deal of work to which more and more countries are joining, and it will be an important contribution to the fact that even countries that are currently low taxed or which do not have a well-founded tax system have the opportunity to benefit from potential tax revenues that otherwise disappear or are not taxed. There are many aspects to taking into account internationally, but at home it is about ensuring the basis for continuing to safeguard many of the welfare systems on which there is broad political agreement. So if we're going to make it, we're going to have to generate economic growth. Then we have to make sure that we have companies that are profitable and that can pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1313	The President regrets both the fact that the light has gone – it has now come back – and that there is a delay in the computer system at the President's table, which is a bit of a mark on us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1316	Active participation in the labour market helps to reduce inequalities in Norway. We have a long and important tradition of employees and employers being important contributors to an orderly working life – a cooperation that many other countries envy us. We see the result, now that the pay demands were moderate, and that the parties saw that there was a need to intervene so that companies that see that they have opportunities for new jobs in the future can permit for a longer period than the current law suggests. And we see that close cooperation between the parties and the authorities is the key to one of the world's most orderly working lives. But then the system is challenged. More and more people are exposed to a life of work that does not follow the standards with which we are accustomed and which are correct. The common name social dumping is constantly being reintroduced. Creativity is great. An example of this creativity is fixed employment without a fixed salary. One must be at the disposal of the employer, but one only receives a salary when it is a job. Some people seem to think that it is the workers who are responsible for this — not the Norwegians, but the non-residents. It is in the Workers' Party's opinion to have the wrong focus. It must be clear that workers coming to Norway to work must have the same pay and working conditions as Norwegians. There is a great responsibility on individuals, on businesses and on the public system to get to it. The Stoltenberg government presented three action plans against social dumping — three, because creativity is greater than the growth and government sees fit when plans and legislation are adopted. But what has happened after the government change? Have there been any new initiatives in the three years Siv Jensen has been Minister of Finance? Yes, new proposals have been put forward, but there are proposals that weaken the fight against social dumping: The Working Environment Act is weakened in significant respects. The collective redress system has been removed. It weakens the fight against social dumping precisely because the collective arrangements contribute to more common efforts than if individuals have to try out legal proceedings. The equal treatment requirement is gone. Several jobs are temporary, and it does not require any further explanation that a person with a temporary job is weaker than an employer with a work methodology who is far from the protection provisions that the Norwegian legislation accepts. One area is good, and we are pleased that the cooperation parties have contributed to the realization of the work of setting up more centres for the crime of working life. It is a good follow-up to the work undertaken through the three earlier social dumping action plans adopted. But in a situation where we have reached the highest unemployment rate of 23 years, there is reason to be concerned – of course for all those who lose their jobs, but the situation is adding to a development with greater differences between people. In addition, high unemployment can reinforce the challenges of social dumping. Therefore, there is reason to expect more from a government that went to the elections about new ideas and new solutions. In this area, we have seen neither new ideas nor new solutions. We've only seen sky-high leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1346	Never has the world fought poverty as effectively as in the last three decades. Between 1982 and 2012, 600 million people were lifted out of poverty only in China. Globalisation has made large parts of the world much richer, and many of the goals we set in 2000, such as halving extreme poverty, were achieved. Politics benefits, effort benefits. At the same time, it is a striking move in our time that, while differences between countries are decreasing, differences in almost all countries have increased. In several countries, differences in income and wealth have increased dramatically over the past 30 years. The richest have become vastly richer, most often with a wild policy with great tax cuts to the richest. At the same time, unemployment has stuck to a high level in many countries. A large part of the jobs that have been created have not given permanent work or secure income. Since the mid-1990s, only half of all new jobs in the OECD area are regular, regular jobs — a development that in itself contributes to growing inequality. Norway has long been an exception. We started our modern history with a society of quite equal and independent farmers and workers. Our welfare state is based on an idea of balancing differences. The movement of workers is the same. Throughout our history, work for everyone has been job no. one. Work ensures freedom for individuals, ensures equality between groups in society, and ensures strong links between the community of Norway. This doesn't take care of itself. It is a historical lesson that an active, persevering and willful policy is needed to ensure that the inequality of such a globalized society as ours does not grow. There are strong forces on our society that have to face counterpowers, with politics. In Norway, we can have strong labour immigration because we have strong trade unions and a well-organised working life, which fight for propriety and social dumping – but only then. We can have a working life how many change jobs, because we have a welfare state that can help people get new opportunities if they're given up – but only then. And we can have a society where it's good for everyone that someone succeeds and makes good money, because we have a tax system where they with strongest shoulders also carry the heaviest burden – but only then. Equality requires active policies. Norway has long been an exception in a world of increased inequality and high unemployment, but it will be historyless to believe that this speciality can be taken for granted. In countries by country, we see that increasing differences are poisoned by society. Social democrats are against inequality on a political and moral basis, but warnings against inequality and injustice now come from heavy trade unions without political anchoring. In its latest report on inequality, the OECD concludes without reservation that increasing inequality harms long-term economic growth. The OECD estimates that increasing inequality alone reduced economic growth in an average OECD country between 1990 and 2010 by almost 5 pst. In particular, they point out that the sharp increase in the number of employees in part-time or temporary contracts has contributed greatly to increasing inequality and lower growth. The OECD is not alone in warning of increasing inequality as part of the greatest challenge of our time. The World Bank does it, the World Economic Forum does it, and the International Monetary Fund and the British magazine The Economist do it. They're not social-democratic thoughts. These are professional bodies that the State councils of the Right Party government can listen to without getting red cut in their cheeks. However, concerted analyses and warnings do not help greatly. They say they're too small differences, but they're running a policy that increases it. And they eliminate counterpowers that were meant to slow the pressure towards more inequality, more centralization and less propriety. The main change, the investment in the budget by budget, is so-called growth-promoting tax relief. It's a word game that cheats. According to the SSB, the tax havens do not promote growth. According to the SSB, they do not work effectively to combat unemployment. They have minimal to say for the most important thing to keep the differences small – work for everyone. On the other hand, these reliefs are a surgically precise tool to increase the differences in income and wealth between the richest in Norway and the rest. That's the facts. It can be read directly from a government budget table every year. The problem of government policy, therefore, is not primarily that it is passive to combat differences. The problem is that it actively reinforces it. Labour and tax policies that increase disparities merge into a larger picture where small and large decisions from this government are drawn in the same direction. From one year to the next, it does not make Norway a country with great differences between people. We won't be the United States, or Sweden for that matter, in a year. But over several years of government policy, Norway is setting a new and dangerous course. Something important about us as people, one of our finest and most successful moves as a society, is thereby weakened. And it's worth working against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1372	Let me start by saying that working for better international cooperation so that the money that is going to be taxed, actually comes to taxation, we agree. It's an important work, but we have to do things nationally, and when the Council of State says there's a broad consensus that there should be small differences in Norway, I'm once again confused. I've had the pleasure of being asked to give lectures on the Norwegian model of society in quite a number of countries around the world. Then, often — at least right, yes, even members of the Progress Party in the delegation — have said that this is representative of a common thinking in Norway. Even the representatives of the Progress Party have sometimes said that. So we experienced at the 2013 Progress Party National Council Jensen no less than ten times said that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people, and in various ways it attacks the Norwegian model. And that is the policy we are now seeing. As the representative Gahr Støre just mentioned, there is one thing to say that there are too little differences, but when a decision is taken that leads to greater differences, and does not counteract the forces that increase the differences, it is quite wrong for the State Council of Jensen to say in its previous speech, when she said that the pay gap in Norway does not increase. Yes, they do. It is documented by the Central Statistical Office. As regards wealth in Norway, differences are increasing, and the number of beneficiaries of social assistance in Norway is increasing. It is a fact that confirms what we have warned against, in the policy that the government is now pursuing. There's no disagreement that we need economic growth. There is disagreement about the way in which economic growth can be achieved – we believe that active employee organisations and employees with influence in companies are one of our competitive advantages, and we are therefore very sceptical of those who reduce the influence of the social partners. Yes, we are too economic growth. That is why we pursued a policy in the last period that led to 350 000 new jobs in Norway and two-thirds of them in the private sector – not created by the government, but created under the framework conditions provided by the government, mainly growth in employment in the private sector. This is why the theory of growth-promoting taxation is so hollow, because all the technical advice says it doesn't work, that the results show in those countries that have tried it, that it doesn't work, and that the figures we got from the Statistical Centre yesterday show that employment in Norway has now fallen by 10,000. Then it's time to choose a new course to take care of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1383	I have to say that it is rather late when the representative, Andersen, ends his speech by saying that we need a new course to take care of the Norwegian people. This is one of the most designed debates I experience that Stortinget has had for a long time. So there's no disagreement in this room that we're going to take care of a society with little differences, but we may disagree on the means to solve the challenges facing the Norwegian economy now. It is not cut in stone that the Workers' Party is the party that has all the answers to the challenges facing Norway, and that is a reason why many wanted a change of government in 2013, because it was thought that after eight years with a red-green government, it was not taken seriously the challenges facing Norwegian business and would meet in time. Then I must say that I think it is extremely strange that the Workers' Party is now arguing against the possibilities of growth-promoting tax relief. With the Labour Party at its head the basis for the 2001 action rule was underlined that one of the areas in which the increased action space related to oil money was to be used was growth-enhancing tax relief. It meant at least the Workers' Party under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership. It is very difficult to see that the Workers' Party believes the same thing today, but they meant it at the time. When the report, on the report, documents the dynamic effects of tax reductions, it is quite remarkable that the Workers' Party is completely obsessing about the effects and the experience we gained from the tax reform in 1992, but I understand that the debates that are taking place today in relation to measures and instruments to combat unemployment, because the Workers' Party is primarily about rhetoric and very little about measures and instruments. I am glad to see that the Workers' Party has promoted a single proposal of importance in addition to what the government has already put forward, but what they are promoting every day is empty, inconsequential rhetoric, and I do not think it is worth it in the situation we are currently facing. Now it's about solving the challenges we have in the short term, and it's about transforming the Norwegian economy in the longer term. Then we have to be able to use more instruments at the same time, and this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1393	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1407	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1414	We are so lucky in this country that we live in one of the world's most well-developed welfare states with good welfare arrangements from cradle to grave. Through these welfare schemes, such as child welfare, such as parental leave, kindergartens, we have, through history, stimulated children to be born. We've increased birth rates, we've reached equality, and we've strengthened the line of work. Our welfare state and our welfare systems have become, and become, through the flotation of the community, and they depend entirely on having legitimacy in the people. The fact that people perceive that the welfare systems are fair and fair, that people perceive that everyone does his duty and demands his right, that everyone contributes according to his ability and gets, as needed, that our well-being is fairly distributed, that those who want to have, get, and that no one abuses our welfare systems, is an important part of the social contract. Norwegian society is constantly changing. Family patterns, travel patterns, mobility are quite different today from what it was when many of our welfare systems became – at a different time. It is therefore important that we constantly be able to renew and adapt our welfare systems to today's challenges, precisely to ensure that they meet those they are going to meet, to the best of their ability, and to ensure legitimacy. The changes we are adopting in this matter today are such a necessary adjustment, and it is correct for several reasons. Firstly, tightening up the right to receive child benefit abroad will contribute positively to reducing school leave. It's one of our major challenges in the future, which we spend a lot of time talking about in this room. How are we going to get more kids through school? Long-term absences at an early age weaken the possibilities for implementation. We know that this is a big problem especially in many of the larger cities. Then it's our duty as politicians to turn every stone and use the means we have to prevent this. Long-term stay abroad when you are actually going to school not only weakens the effectiveness and learning, but it also acts as a barrier to integration, both for school-age children and for those kids who should have gone to kindergarten. It is seen as just and reasonable that one should not be able to stay for long periods abroad and have social security. I recall that the Storting adopted a series of tightenings for lonely dependants in a series of social benefits for living, in this room almost exactly a year ago. Such a change, adopted today by the majority, brings the child benefit and its rules into line with the rules applicable to other benefits, such as: the rules on receipt of cash support when staying abroad. Thus, we will have a more consistent practice of social security rules in foreign residence, and with good exceptions, I am absolutely sure that this proposal we are adopting today will have a positive impact on school absence and integration, but of course at the same time ensure that families will still be able to stay abroad for periods of time and within what is normal travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1427	The proposal to reduce the right to family allowances in the event of stay abroad is primarily a proposal designed to prevent long-term school absence. An enquiry was received from the Municipality of Oslo and the Municipality of Drammen, who asked the government for help in dealing with these challenges, because they thought they had no instruments or existing sanctions that could be satisfactory in order to do something about this. This is primarily a restriction on children of school age. The Christian People's Party does not disagree that we are making these restrictions, but we believe that one goes too far when one also restricts this to children under school age. There may be reasons for wanting to have a stay abroad, not least in order to be able to visit a family on maternity leave, for example. Here you change the law so that children in and under school age are hit. We in the Christian People's Party do not agree with this. It is also hearing bodies that share the views of the Christian People’s Party. We believe that there should be a difference between children of school age and below, and that there should be a difference there. That is why we are promoting a minority proposal in which, among other things, we are promoting a minority proposal. says: ‘In temporary absences from Norway which are not more than three months old, school-leaving children are still considered to be residents here. In the case of temporary absences from Norway not exceeding six months old, children under compulsory school age are still considered to be residents here.’ I believe that the difference should have been made, and especially when the matter starts with doing something about the long-term absence at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1441	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1444	Child welfare is important in order to ensure basic needs for young people such as food, clothing, toys and leisure. We think that's important throughout childhood, no matter where people live. It is then clear that the social security systems in Norway must function in such a way that they build up under the rest of the idea of welfare and community solutions in Norway. SV fully agrees that it is important to ensure schooling, to ensure participation in primary schools, and to have a device on social security systems that builds up under it. Prolonged absences from school are unfortunate, both in terms of falling out of the school community and not least in terms of going to school. But what we're having a hard time understanding is that you have to make a restriction for kids who are not of school age. I see no good reason to do so, and I see few good reasons to restrict the room to have the opportunity to be abroad when the child is under six years old. It's about the fact that such a rigid system could have some unintended consequences. Let me give you some examples. We know that cross-border love can be demanding. I myself have a friend who's had a baby with a man from Tunisia, who has a lot of problems in getting his father to live with his child and living together as a family, because it's hard to get the one you love from Tunisia to Norway. If it was possible to travel to Tunisia, you could be there during the maternity period, you could be there during the leave period, for the family to be in charge. In such an example, I find it unreasonable that the state should cut child welfare because a family will be united. Another example might be that you have a very long journey to visit the family. Everyone knows it's hard to travel with little kids, and it can be easier to be at the same place over time. In my view, it is unreasonable to have such a square code that if you cross a three-month limit, you should lose child welfare – once you have managed to save up to such a trip. We need to remember what child-responsiveness is: ensuring the care of and securing the needs of the young. SV supports the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We think it is a very constructive proposal. We think it has a wise approach and is a natural limit to set, precisely because it is about the argument that the Committee puts forward, that we should prevent the absence from school, but at the same time ensure that kids are able to provide the necessary child-rescue. We will vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party and against you.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1457	Parents can today receive child benefit in the event of a stay abroad which is not intended to last more than six months. From 1 January 2007, the limit was reduced from 12 months to 6 months. The proposal currently under consideration is aimed at further lowering this limit — to three months. The proposal to reduce the right to family benefits in the event of stay abroad is an action against long-term school leave due to foreign residence. This justification is primarily based on the integration of children with non-Norwegian language. Schoolchildren who are sent out of the country for longer periods of time, we know that valuable teaching time and association with their Norwegian environment are lost. Parents are free to choose training courses for their children. Foreign stays may be positive, but for some children a move from a familiar environment as well as a return to Norwegian school may be problematic. There are not a large number of children involved, but for the children involved, it can be serious. The positive effects of the proposed measure, namely the integration of children, outweigh the disadvantages to those who may be financially affected by such a tightening. The proposal for a limit of three months also coincides with the limit on the right to cash support in the case of stays abroad, which is three months. Let me stress that it is initially quite unproblematic that parents take their children on longer trips abroad. It can give exciting and new experiences to the family, and families are free to organize their lives as they want. The representative Bekkewold was concerned that some families wanted to visit the family abroad. The representative Bergstø stated that if you were to have a good association, it was a long journey distance. So let me stress that it's not like you're taking away the parents' child-rescue here now, they still have the opportunity to be on a trip abroad for three months before this rule comes into force. In some families, we see that living abroad can have unfortunate consequences for the children. It's hard to be separated from friends and familiar surroundings, it can be difficult for children who have been taken away from their usual environment, to come back, and the children also get a break in a learning process. The Committee’s representative from the Christian People’s Party has proposed that restrictions apply only to children of school age. The government, on the other hand, proposes one common rule for all, because long stays abroad can also be problematic for children who have not started school. Kindergarten is an important arena for integration and, in particular, for language development, and it is also important to try to prevent long-term absence from kindergarten. We have given priority to having one rule for all and it is reasonable that child welfare is not maintained during long-term stays abroad, regardless of whether the stay leads to absence from school or not. This is an action that will be important to promote integration and to prevent unwanted long-term absences from school and kindergarten. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1483	The rationale for having an equal system for children of school age and children of school age is to compare this with the cash support, and since a three-month limit will coincide with the limit on the export of cash support, this will be easier to manage than if the limits are different. Does this mean that there is actually some kind of masculinity reason that you don't want to differentiate between children of school age and children of school age?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1488	I stressed well in my post that kindergarten is a very important arena for integration and especially for language development, and it is important to try to prevent long-term absence from kindergarten. Then, before the children have started school – and even after they have started school – families still have the opportunity to stay for a long time abroad for three months. And it's important for us that this rule also applies to kindergarten. We know what the important arena is, and not least get one like other legislation. It's also easier to practice, and there's less administrative extra work when you have a similar system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1495	In Norway, it is compulsory to have a school, but it is not compulsory to have a nursery, so using a kindergarten makes sense to me that I am very well involved with integration. It is very important that children do not stay away from school for too long, but you have to use the arguments that are important in relation to what this case has as a starting point, and the starting point was an enquiry from the municipality of Drammen and the municipality of Oslo, which wanted to take measures to prevent long-term absence. So once again, have you ever spent time assessing whether it's possible to differentiate? That's very little mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1501	It is right, as the representative here claims, that this has come on the basis of an enquiry from the Oslo municipality up against school, but when we assessed this case and sent it out to the hearing, we chose to bring the children who go to kindergarten, because we believe that kindergarten is also an important arena in this work. That was also the result when we promoted this case. So it's important for us to have a similar code, but the purpose of this case is that kindergarten is also an important arena, it's important for the language development of the children, and we think it's right to have an equal rule for the children who go to kindergarten, and those who go to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1511	The centre party is not represented in the committee, but I take the floor to inform you that we are going to support the vote and the proposition and the proposal for changes in the child's rights. We will also support the Christian People's Party's proposal that this be confined to children of educational age. We disagree with the arguments put forward by the Council of State here, and we point out that when you have received questions from municipalities, which are also mentioned in the setting, for example. Oslo Municipality and Drammen Municipality, they have asked the government to help limit long-term school absences. I have not been told that someone has addressed the need for such a change, given that kindergarten children are away for a little or longer period, so we are going to support the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1516	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1530	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines of reply from the main figures of the parties and five lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1539	Too many kids in Norway are struggling in everyday life and without safe adults around them. Fortunately, the matter we are dealing with today confirms that there is a great deal of commitment and considerable impatience on their behalf. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the adoption of a number of new measures for the benefit of these young people today, as rapporteur-in-Office of the House of Commons. In particular, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and a result which has been put into practice throughout the eleven joint proposals of a single committee. There has been a common recognition that there is a need for more foster homes and more types of foster homes, and that there are many things around that need to be addressed. The common proposals are concerned: a concern about the use of coercive measures in the field of child protection and foster care, that follow-up is needed for children who have committed an offence, children with trauma or who have been subjected to abuse, that the organisation of families with children with disabilities is better followed up, that research is being undertaken on how biological children experience being a foster baby, a call to consider how adopted children can be better followed up to assess whether the measures imposed to prevent birth defects can be put in place without consent during pregnancy, that the Committee wants better and more frequent guidance provision for foster parents, that a comprehensive committee challenges the government to ensure equivalent financial framework conditions for foster parents in municipal foster care centres to be able to apply the ratio of foster parents to the pension conditions and to release, in the context of children's additional need for follow-up, that the government is asked to carry out a full review of foster care contracts in order to improve the quality of research and to improve access to the child's rights to access to justice and access to a better access to the environment, and access to access to the environment for child's enforcement, Through this, we have agreed in the Committee that society can provide a better basis for recruiting foster homes and providing more children with safety in everyday life, and that it is organised in this way so that more people can experience good working days with increased quality of life. There's probably more grips, but we've found these. The work on the Storing Communication, as the rapporteur, has shown that the message does not deliver what we wanted for better foster home care, and the committee has confirmed the need for a separate public investigation and a comprehensive review of foster home care, just as the representatives Breivik, Rotevatn and Raja from the Left proposed, a proposal that had broad support in the trade unions, but which unfortunately was not adopted here in Stortinget. The working party is promoting this again, because we see that there is still a lot to be done. Recruitment of many adequate, suitable, proper and durable foster homes is challenging according to the government. Here we agree. At the same time, it is described that the waiting time for the placement of children is increasing. When, as a society, we actually want a development where foster homes are preferred to institutions, it means that efforts need to be stepped up. Then you need an overall approach and, in fact, a real willingness to lower thresholds where it's subtitling. The government’s policy statement on integration confirms the impression further. It is described as difficult to find enough suitable homes for single minors. The need for safe and stable care professionals for these children is evident. There are several things that should be looked at and that are reasons why recruitment or keeping foster homes can be difficult — such as: combining social security benefits and foster homes. By means of the proposals No. 1 and 2 want the Workers' Party together with the Christian People's Party to review the legislation for foster parents who are disqualified or receive redundancy benefits. Purchases of foster homes from private suppliers have increased considerably in recent years. The government describes that this has led to a massive increase in the cost of child protection in the state. We therefore want to have guidelines on quality assurance, control and limitations of off-takes provided to private operators. By means of the proposals No. 3 and 4 wish to meet two key demands of the Foster Home Association, namely a review of the eligibility of biological parents by taking care of and a review of parental rights – both in order to ensure stability and predictability, and not least peace, around the young. Many children and young people in Norway experience a growing-up and a daily life in which the nearest failed or do not stretch. For each of these children, it is important for society to set up, take responsibility and, together with the individual, contribute to creating security in everyday life. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the biological parents receive the follow-up they need, because they also experience the difficult days and have deep thanks for taking care of them. We have to be able to see the whole thing and find the good solutions, especially for the kids. A new, safe and caring home through the foster home system has been offered to many children and young people who need and deserve love. This is precisely why it is so important to help children who are given a new home experience stability and adults who give them a growth in line with what they would give their own biological infants. In order to ensure this, young people need to be involved as far as they can in planning the transition to a new home. Foetal parents must be well prepared and provided with adequate follow-up and guidance services after having actually become a foster home. There has been a great deal of commitment from many organisations and individuals around the foster home message, and many of the recordings have been about the lack of the message provided. Children and young people with experience in child protection and foster homes have consistently called for the use of their knowledge and the participation of children. The same children also express unnecessary morbidity and that it is easy to feel like a commodity it is negotiated about. It is often demanding to feel like a commodity in a debate between child protection and foster homes. Therefore, we must listen to them – they have the experience that is needed. One has to be careful to be oblique and stand here and say that we have all the answers here now. We don't have that, and there are certainly many other things that we should have looked at, and that we should have looked at. But what I'm sure of is that kids who tell about the good experience in their foster home life, and happy foster parents will be the best recruitment strategy in society. In order to ensure many of the good descriptions in the future, both foster children and foster parents need to be more closely involved in the development of processes, frameworks and conditions. I take up the proposals that lie in the case from the Workers' Party and the proposals we have with the Christian People's Party, and hope that we get a good deal of treatment on the matter. That's what kids deserve. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1614	Then the representative Sonja Mandt has taken up the proposals she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1619	I totally agree with the representative Sonja Mandt that we had a good job in the committee. There are many leaders in good work to be done in the future, not least from the Committee itself, but also from the Government. It will cost, and it will spend a lot of time on just that. The working party suggests that they want a NOW. We know that it will cost money, and we know it will cost time, which we might spend a little bit of time elsewhere. Then my question is, What is this message missing, and what is most important for the Workers' Party that a NOW should hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1626	First of all, a NOU would be a neutral basis to consider things, and recordings would also be able to come in very many other fields. I think, for example, we could have dealt with the framework conditions better there. They are mentioned in the message, but it is not concluded there. It's been pushed. There are good descriptions in the message, but there are many of the challenges we see, especially in terms of framework conditions, and especially in terms of the economic situation there. I would also believe that the whole field had had greater confidence in a NOU that is not a political initiated announcement, but a neutral basis. In addition, I think we also have time. When we last discussed the matter in Stortinget, that was not what you wanted. A concrete and thorough review of the field was sought, so that stability, good practices and good proposals could be found to solve the problems we face in connection with recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1633	As Mr Mandt said, there has been good cooperation in this matter, and there are many joint proposals here. What concerns me, and which I wonder about the concerns of the representative Mandt, is: we know that there is a great need for foster homes quickly. Some of the measures we are now taking are to get attention around it and to keep it going. It will take several years before a NOU is back in the government, and then it will be Great Treatment. In order for it to see a whole, more of the things we're playing for now and have a majority must be played out as a mandate to the NOU, otherwise things are not seen in context. Isn't it a little tragic that we're going to postpone this for years, instead of starting action now for the kids waiting for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1642	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have received so many good joint proposals. But it also shows that we had needed a NOW that had revealed all of the suggestions. It would take time, and we could do a lot of things in the meantime – as the Council of State also warned in its letter of reply when we dealt with that application. Number one is that we have to speak of being foster parents. We have a common responsibility for that. I am not so afraid that the measures we have now proposed and will adopt will not be implemented, because I expect that to be done. In parallel with that, a NOU might be able to reveal other things we could get, so that we could get even better foster care in the future. What worries me now is that we don't have an overall approach to the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1649	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1652	The saddest and worst things there is must be families that break up, families that can no longer take care of the most precious, families that have never had it in themselves to take care of children, families with evil and bad secrets. The most amazing thing in the world is families that have heart space for one or more others, families that open their doors and give love to those who have lost everything, or – even worse – have never experienced love and good family life. What is our job as politicians – as I see it – is to create systems that support families and prevent or detect the first thing I mentioned, and do what we can to find the families that have extra space in their hearts for one or more extras when we need it. That's why this foster home message is so important. We know the queues are too long. Children live their lives here and now, a year – which for us adults fly off farms – contains several milestones for a child. They don't have time to stand in line, they have a childhood they're going to continue. The message therefore addresses recruitment as an important question. The Committee has just been in Bergen and heard about the importance of family councils to recruit new homes in the circle of children. Getting an unborn child may seem a little scary, but when that's what the child you've had in a dance class, it might be a little bit easier to imagine. Proposals for family councils are made mandatory. It is also proposed to move recruitment to the municipalities. This must, of course, be seen in the context of other reforms, but getting the same body to see the lives of children in the context – from a decision that they cannot live in their families, for recruitment, matching and follow-up of the new family – must be for the best of the child. The advice of child protection professionals is that we have to find foster parents who are happy in children, and can show them love. They also ask for foster parents to cooperate with them from infancy. These are tough demands, but actually also requirements that should be a minimum of what we can do. In addition, there is a point that the new home has received good training and is well followed up, so that we prevent a breakage. The notification proposes to upgrade the training and to legislate it. Good training is essential for foster parents. Finding a new dress is hard. It's going to fit the occasion, it's going to suit you, it's going to be in the right color, it's going to be in the right size. Finding a new dress is not comparable to finding the right foster home for a child, but re-entering the importance of doing it correctly, and the significance of the choice for human life, with a slight infinity – and an indication of what child protection is responsible for in this situation. Therefore, collecting responsibility is the right way to go. The same is true of national monitoring tools and the possibility of using institutions for investigation. In addition, it is important to have highly qualified child protection personnel, who are not afraid to avail themselves of competences outside their own department when necessary. The notification has a separate chapter on the financial conditions of foster homes. It should not serve to open one's home to another child, but it should not affect the family economy either. There must be flexibility, for each family is different, while foster parents should not have to hold hands when they meet at the negotiations. These are difficult balances. The right is behind the message, which does not want more government regulation, while at the same time we choose to support several investigative points for greater non-discrimination and pensions. One of the things that has made the greatest impression on me in this period is my meeting with children and young people who have experienced more in their young lives than well is. Especially remember little Odin. He was only six years old and would tell us how he missed his siblings. He would not go up on the big podium, so he spoke through another, from the side of the stage. But at the end, I was allowed to meet little Odin. He gave me a hug -- which was a good hug -- and he gave me a little pearl that he was playing with. I have hung it up in the office – always remembering the most important thing when we make our decisions. For whatever tools, skilled employees, conversations with children, training foster parents, follow-up and financial framework conditions, it is always this small extra that must be done, what cannot be explained, what makes children finally able to lower their shoulders and continue childhood. It's kind of magical, not very legal, but easily recognizable -- it's love.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1688	We were many in the opposition in the Storting, but perhaps above all many foster children, foster parents and biological parents, who looked forward to the government providing this foster home message, and that we should get a proper review of the situation. We should have measures that could increase the stability, safety and participation of young people and improve the framework conditions for parents. The message does not respond in any way to the expectations of any of us. But the Stortinget has once again, as the Stortinget has also done in the context of the gender equality and kindergarten announcement, done the job where the government does not do it, and made a number of - over eleven - proposals that respond to the challenges we know we are facing. What does the representative think barrels of the announcement made by the government were poorly received by the hearing bodies - that it was too thin? Does the representative agree that the job that the majority of the population has now done improves the situation for foster homes and foster parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1697	I do not agree with the actual description of the representative. I believe this was a very good message. I disagree that the good job we do here at Stortinget comes instead - I think it comes in addition. That is because I have faith in the democracy that is sitting here and that we actually come to an agreement. We have done that in this case. That's what's so great. We've been sitting here together, we've heard the hearing bodies, and we've agreed on more proposals, for which we're going to vote, all of them. But the Workers' Party will nevertheless stop, train, go back and wait. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1704	When the Committee had consulted on this communication, all the hearing bodies agreed that this communication did not respond in any way to the expectations of the people out there. It's not responding to the challenges we're facing in any good way. I wonder if the representative Tønder believes that the message that was submitted was good enough. Does the representative disagree with the hearing bodies that it was too thin? So is it that the representative barrels would have liked to have accepted that message as it existed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1709	It's like when a message comes to the Stortinget -- it might be something that you're a little unfamiliar with in the Workers' Party -- we think that with a minority government, as we now have, it's important that the Storting actually does the job, and sits together and works with the message. Then I disagree with the description of reality presented by the representative. I think we got a very good starting point, which we have worked well with, and which has become even better. Then it's strange – if we disagreed so terribly – that almost all the comments are committee comments in the setting that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1716	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1719	Today, we are dealing with a fosterheim message. It's a pleasure that we all in the committee show with our remarks that we have the will to want a better foster home system, which is for the best for the children who need it, and not least that all the amazing human beings who want to help by being foster home get adequate training and follow-up. Even if parents fail the children, we as a society shall not fail them. When this is so wrong, that children cannot live with their parents, the most important thing is to find the best care for their children, and in most cases the result is foster home. Then it is very important that we get a home that suits the individual child. One should evaluate family and networks first, and here I would like to praise the Council of State, which on both the inside and the outside has been a major driver for precisely this to be the first priority when looking for a foster home. As one said to me at a child-rescue office that I recently visited: it is today's government and the Council of State's clear opinion about networks and family that blows my neck when I'm going to find a foster home. Paragraph 4 of the Fosterheim Regulation is not a new regulation, but it has not been taken sufficiently into account that this is what should be in force. When we know that in some municipalities it's actually only 25 pst. – yes, barely so – by family and networks that are used as foster homes, while in other municipalities it is up to 75 pst., we have a challenge. We must continue to talk about this, both government councils and big business representatives, and not least we must follow the local government around. In addition, community planning can be a good signal and a good help in getting this done. Children should be heard – we know that. We get feedback all the time about children hearing, but they don't hear well enough. And the children it's for, do they feel that they're going to be heard? That's what's important. There we have a little challenge that we have to work with. There is also a need to think carefully about moving children far away from their municipality and their place of residence, both for the child and for those who are entitled to get together. When you're talking about child-restraints and families traveling miles to have a relationship in just two hours, there's little sense and too much use of resources. Therefore, the recruitment of foster homes in each municipality is very important. Children are different. This is important to take care of. The child’s resources and needs need to be well and properly mapped. One knows that children are quickly linked to caregivers, even though they are not actually good caregivers. The child does not know about others, nor does he experience others. Therefore, a safe child must be safe when moving to a foster home. One thought that strikes me a little bit is that when a child is going to start in kindergarten, he has one up to several days of familiarity, yes, sometimes one may have to use a week or two. But when you're going to move into foster home, it often happens acutely, and think about what a traumatic experience this might be. Difor is this very important. Fosterheim recruitment is and must be focused – the way a recruiter recruits and not least the way a foster home recruits. The community is constantly changing, it's actually family as well. Many different people both can and have the will to be foster homes, but many dare not take the step fully. Therefore, to get the best foster homes, the threshold must be very low. It is not necessary to decide if you have a little dust in your hook or if you don't have a fully fancy bathroom. Therefore, I am pleased that the government wants to see closer to the distribution of responsibilities in the fosterheim area, among other things. responsibility for recruitment. One will introduce an obligation to evaluate the use of family councils, other networking tools or methods when children need foster homes. Maybe we can once get a real digital system where children and foster homes match from day one, and one gets the best home for the individual child. The training of foster parents must be the best. Training prior to moving the child and on-the-go guidance must be better than today. Many also demand more group education, where foster parents can gather and benefit from each other. I am pleased with the agreement of the Committee in many areas, and we also support a good part of the proposals. This is to move on, and I'm absolutely sure the government will do its best to get us a good foster home system in the future, for the best of all the kids who need it, and the family deira.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1745	There was still a lot of speaking time left, so I thought it was a little time to think about – but we're going straight to the point. The representative Reiertsen has spent time in his post praising the consensus that has arisen in Stortinget, and it is joyous. In relation to the gender equality message, we have had to do it in three rounds, and we are doing the kindergarten message. In the case of the foster home communication, the government has provided a message that is relatively good on the description, but which almost does not contain any measures at all. It was a unison feedback from the hearing bodies when they were at the hearing in the committee, and also from an overall opposition here on the Stortinget, that it was very deficient here, despite the fact that the Advance Party before the election and the previous period spoke well and warmly about the need for both greater safety for foster home children and more stability and follow-up for foster home parents. Nevertheless, it was very deficient. Was it embarrassing for the representative Reiertsen to witness the unisone feedback of the hearing that this communication was deficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1756	No, I don't want to use the word 'pure'. Feedback goes up and down here in life no matter what matters they deal with, but we're taking with us what has come back to us. But we've also got a lot of positive feedback, and if it wasn't concrete on the listener, it was about the other way around, and we're very happy about that. Then we are fully aware that we have a minority government, and democracy is raging. But now when I look at the comments that have been submitted by both the government party and the opposition, I thought it was very good and fun to see that we can go in the same direction in many, many good areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1763	Yes, and it is nice that we have come to an agreement on a number of points, but we could have avoided that job if the government parties had listened to an overall field prior to the message. And the feedback has been very clear: first of all, here we need to see the whole field assembled to really go through it and to take the actions that are important to implement. So it has been quite known for a long time that foster home children have been concerned with stability, security, love and predictability, and that foster home parents are concerned with good framework conditions and good follow-up along the way, which would also have limited movement. Nevertheless, government parties chose not to listen to those signals. It's only when the Storing merges and forces this into place that it becomes a solution. Why is it that the government parties do not have the ability to do that job themselves and listen to the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1773	The government listens, and they work well. Remember that there is a lot to this message, including: that the government will, that the government will work on it, and that the government will continue to work on it. There's a lot of good points there that we have to take with us. Then I am absolutely sure that for the foster-home children and their foster-home parents there will be better times in the future. And then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1783	I would also like to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation on an extremely important communication, and I agree with Mr Reiertsen that it is good to see that when both the position and the opposition sit down, write comments and promote proposals, then the proposal that unites us is in a very correct direction. So I am very pleased with the work that has been done in the committee, and I also hope that the follow-up to this matter, of this big message, gets that attention – also politically – that it deserves. Foster homes are in many ways one of the finest in our welfare society. It's about us, as a society, saying that every child should have a safe home. All children shall have a safe and healthy upbringing. And then there are some individuals, couples, families, who volunteer to work for the community, and who are involved in taking responsibility for taking care of our children. It's really very nice and very important. So I want to start my post by thanking a lot – and it comes from the depths of my KrF heart – to all those who make their homes available to children who need it, children and young people who can no longer live with their parents. The foster parents practice nest love in practice, and they show the best of our welfare society. Therefore, it has been so important that the Storting gives clear information that it is time to improve the framework conditions for foster homes now. Yes, better follow-up and guidance are important, but financial compensation, proper framework conditions, good contracts and relief and free purchases are also crucial when needed. Every day has to go around, even for those who want to do this important social effort. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee unanimously states: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to ensure an equivalent financial framework for foster parents in municipal foster homes.’ It's very important. There are so many differences today that we can't sit still and look at it. In addition, it says: ‘The government asks the pension conditions of foster parents to be assessed by the government with a view to ensuring that foster parents do not lose weight in being released because of the child’s additional need for care and follow-up’. It is also important, because this has been an unresolved issue for a long, long time. And on the other hand, ‘The government is asking for a full review of foster home contracts and for a solution that gives more predictability than today, including better rights for foster parents and a more formal attachment for the child to the foster home.’ It's really nice that it looks like we're getting a majority for it today. This is the first time the Stortinget has a foster home message for treatment. Never before have we received a message on this topic alone for discussion here in Stortinget. So I want to thank the government, thank Councillor Horne, for producing this message. I would also like to thank the Left, who was really the ones who took the initiative in this communication first – although it was a NOW they initially wanted. When the Christian People's Party has previously proposed foster homes in the Storting, there are some special elements that we have been concerned about, and that we also highlight in the setting, and that we want to point out especially today. First of all, all children should have a good home. It's important and right. It's important, and it's absolutely right, that we also have kindergarten and other rights, but nothing is as important and as fundamental as having a good home. And it's so fundamental that children are waiting for a right match – we as the authorities have to make sure that their children get a home when they need it. Recruitment of multiple foster homes is well done by many today, but we know that efforts here need to be increased. Secondly, stability and fewer unintended movements have been a theme here at Stortinget too, because the need for stability is absolutely fundamental, especially for children and young people. When implementing a care assumption, the authorities assume a great responsibility for providing good care and a better life for the child. It implies a life of stability, safety and association with the new carers. One of the major challenges facing child protection is that children are moving too much. We know that factors that can contribute to stability are living in foster homes in the family, living with siblings and interdisciplinary support for foster homes, and an overall committee points out that this is crucial knowledge that we need to take into account in our work. The Christian People's Party believes that increased use of family councils and the child's relatives and large families as foster homes is important. Recruitment from close networks has increased significantly in recent years, and the fact that a majority of those who have participated in family councils have positive experience of this, we should focus on it. At the same time, we know that foster parents often have many challenges, and that they often get less follow-up and compensation than other foster parents. Therefore, we are concerned to stress that training and guidance for foster parents must be strengthened. We need to have a critical assessment of the criteria for moving from one foster home to another. There are many signs that child protection has too low a threshold to take children out of a foster home and start again if the foster home does not function optimally. It is necessary to assess whether the appeals of biological parents after taking care have become too strong and whether this creates instability for the children. If there is one thing that child protection professionals and the Change Factory have taught us all, it is that we must listen to the children as well. It is important that children's right to be heard is respected, including in matters like this. I would like to emphasise in particular that an overall committee in the vote stresses that national authorities must ensure that foster families with children with disabilities experience the functioning of the auxiliaries around them. As is the case today, families feel that the different public authorities are shifting responsibility towards each other in terms of funding and services. Some have good deals, others don't get good deals. Some people get a pension, others don't get a pension. Some have municipalities that are able to pay for the rebuilding of the home, most do not. It feels as if you're being valued as a foster parent, and the children don't get the same conditions and overall care from the public. The Christian People's Party believes that foster parents should not have to use their energy to fight against systems that do not work. Families taking responsibility for children with disabilities must be guaranteed funding of the necessary practical arrangements, relief, remuneration by effort, pension provision, health pay schemes and insurance, and it must be ensured that they meet well coordinated public organisation. We are pleased that the Storting today makes this decision: ‘The government requests safe foster families with children with disabilities to be provided with safe and predictable framework conditions and good and coordinated organisation.’ We really look forward to a good follow-up of this from the government. As I said, this is an important message, and we know that we need to step up efforts to get more foster homes recruited. In these days where we have also seen that many lone minor asylum seekers have come, it shows that this need is great, and we must also ensure that these children can experience having a safe and healthy home to grow up in. I really hope that what we do in Stortinget today can help us a step further. I just want to explain the vote of the Christian People's Party. We will deal with the proposals we have made with the Workers' Party. Similarly, I just want to make it clear that we are going to support the proposals No. 6 and 12, from the left. The Christian People's Party will also support the proposals No. 15 and 17-21, from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1844	The representative Bekkewold then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1847	The purpose of the Child Protection Act is to ‘ensure that children and young people living in conditions likely to harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner’ and that the protection of children shall ‘help ensure that children and young people have safe conditions of growth’. The Society and the Stortinget call for a great responsibility for all children's rights to a good childhood, and it is a very important message The Stortinget has for treatment today. The central party agrees that municipalities should be given increased responsibility for foster care, and we look forward to the government's proposal on this. For us, it is important that such a transfer of responsibility leads to the transfer of additional resources and also to the necessary enhancement of competence. The centre party is critical of the major market correction and commercialisation that has taken place in the area of child protection. We support the proposal in the vote to submit guidelines on quality assurance, control and limitations of off-takes to private operators. We also think there is a lack of the message that commercialization is to a small extent taken up, and when it is, the government opens up for even larger private commercial entries. The centre party requests - and suggests - that no additional private commercial operators be allowed to recruit fosterheim. We know there are many private people today. We don't think they should be able to do it, but we don't want it to facilitate even more private use. We propose to ensure that the procedural/delegation services, foster home and follow-up services are mainly to be carried out by the local authorities and the Buffetat authorities, and not by private commercial operators. It is important that children are treated as well and tidy as possible, that those responsible for the services carry out the tasks, and that the laws of law are not extended. The possible introduction of a national screening system must ensure that each child is individually and professionally assessed. The Central Party believes that the best care of children should be given to the choice of measures, and it is important that child protection comes early with the help of families, so as to avoid unnecessary takeovers. We think it is very worrying that six out of ten children in foster home today do not get to live with their siblings. We know that some siblings are not advised to bow together, but that's the exception. We think there's too many siblings who don't get a bow and that it hurts. We think that family and networks should always be evaluated first by taking care of them, and that the sibling, as long as it's for the best, should get a job done. We make suggestions to strengthen this with family and networks, including: an assessment of the legality of the adoption of no care takeover without an assessment of the child’s own family or close network and of the fact that it is provided in a regulation that it is made clear, in the case-law or in any other appropriate way, that this has been assessed before the decision was taken. We know that today there is no such practice. In its supervision of child-resistance services, the county council must examine specifically whether family and close networks have been assessed in all care takeovers. And up against the siblings again, it is important that a better provision be made for foster families who accept the siblings. We believe that the foster home family must secure a stable and equivalent economic framework, good training, guidance and follow-up, and support proposals that will be put forward today. Children and young people in child protection are among society’s most vulnerable and experience mental illness more often than other children. Research in Norway has detected that 76 pst. Of those living in institutions, there are mental disorders, but only one in four have been helped. The centre believes that cooperation between child protection and health services needs to be strengthened in order to ensure better prevention, follow-up and treatment, and suggests it today. We are also concerned that those who are 18 years of age and older need better follow-up. As a starting point, everyone should be provided with guidance and provision of after-sales protection. It has to be easier to extend foster home care after the age of 18, and one has to ensure that more people get a good supply of post-natal care until the age of 23, which is promised today. We're going to vote to support all the Romanesque decisions in the setting, and I'm happy to have such a broad political deal on important things. We are also going to support the minority proposals from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote, and we are going to support the proposal No. 6 and 12 from the left. Then the Central Party has put forward proposals that are distributed in the Chamber, and I have some comments on our own proposals. As I have been informed, at least some of them will be able to get multiples, and I am very pleased about that. In proposal No 18 is a change in the wording. It shall read as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider making proposals’ – i.e. not proposing, but ‘assessing’ to make proposals – ‘to allow no adoption of takeovers without the evaluation of the children’s own family or close networks’, etc. In proposal No 20 is also a small change, the word 'as a general rule' should be entered. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the sibling, as a general rule, be not split by taking care of the sibling and that measures be taken to better facilitate foster families accepting the sibling.’ Proposal No. 17, which I would like to highlight from the speaker's chair, I would like to be able to have multiples – I get to see how things are going. But I'm very concerned about this -- I think it's an injustice we're doing to many children in the field of child protection that they have mental problems and problems, maybe in part drug problems, that are not treated and discovered in the same way as in children who are not in child care. They get a completely different offer, I fear, and a missing offer. There needs to be much better cooperation between health services and child protection. We know that when children are placed in foster homes or in institutions – being taken from their own homes is in itself an uplifting experience, no matter how it has been, even if there has been a serious situation – it is a critical phase. I had seen it as natural that there was a rule that all children should receive a health assessment when they experience it this way, just to be able to monitor and prevent it, and that there was not too much time. I think I could do better with the sad statistics that we have today when it comes to mental illness and intoxication among children and young people who have been in child protection, which is also part of the explanation of ill health later in life. This is very important, so proposal No. 17 I'd like to get multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1891	Then does the President assume that the representative intended to address the proposals to which she referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1894	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1899	That's it. The President shall repeat that the proposals have been submitted after the deadline, and the President will return to them at the time of voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1902	A free world is the hallmark of justice, equivalency and equal opportunities for all. Free societies have stable and strong Community institutions and a good safety net for all. For the Left, which is a socially liberal party, this is the value of the strong commitment we have for children who are born into families that cannot take care of them, for child protection as an institution, and for foster homes familiars, whom the priceless supplement they represent for the community's ability to take care of those who have little or no voice. Running such a job without the most relevant knowledge is an unnecessary experiment with the most expensive we have – vulnerable children. The background to this message is that in spring 2014, the Left will present a proposal for a holistic review of the foster home care system through a NOU. In the debate, I and Left chose to speak to the Council of State when it was so clear that going about a NOW was not necessary, and that a series of ongoing processes that could be reported through an ordinary survey would be a good basis for further developing foster care. At the same time, the Left presented a set of expectations as to what such a big message would have to answer. And to take it unbelievably good first. This message is good in a number of areas. Increased use of family councils is very positive, the measures relating to the training of foster families, likeins. And that government has reported on the monitoring and distribution of the needs of foster children and on the follow-up of children, biological parents and foster parents, are good and strong parts of the message. These changes will undoubtedly make it better for children to be given real consideration in each individual case, and of course the Left is fully behind them. The problem is not as much as it says in the message as it is not mentioned. For the Left, it is quite central that making it attractive to be a foster home is important for both quantity and quality. I don't like to use my own person as an example at all, but with a formal experience of 16.5 years and a real 25 years as a foster home, I know very much that relations, both emotional and economic, which are connected in foster homes, are life-long and independent of formal contracts and financial compensation from the public. Idealism is and should be the driving force for those who undertake a foster home mission. But the economy is just as completely a central element. This is where the Left believes that the Storing Message fails and does not provide an adequate response to the challenges facing the Forsterheimsorge. The lack of economic clarification strongly limits the conclusions. Better monitoring prior to the choice of measures is important, but in order to tailor the measures for the child to enter a foster home family, we need a variety of families and homes to choose from. Here's the bottleneck. We don't have enough today. When one of your messages says that all of your follow-up and organisation will be financed within the current financial framework, the result will be self-sufficient. We need 1,000 new foster homes every year, but then there's got to be another serious force. And unfortunately, the message doesn't imply that there is enough incentive. This is also the reason for the Left’s proposal – which is one of the proposals we are making today – to strengthen the economic environment. I quote the proposal, which will direct the government’s work on the state budget for 2017: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the financial framework conditions for foster families through a stepping-up plan, the first step being taken in the 2017 government budget by increasing the contribution to municipalities and a similar recommendation on increasing the KS rates for parental employment.’ In dollars and cents, that actually means plus/minus 45 million. SEK – 45 million. kr in a government budget that is now approaching 1 300 billion. kr. ‘Peanuts’, which may determine the difference between whether a child gets a worthy growth and a worthy life afterwards, versus the option. I understand so that this doesn't get plural today. It is a pity, because those who fight against it are, in effect, fighting against urgent measures, and they may be the most central and most important measure on the subject of recruitment and conditions for foster homes. That it applies to the government party, which in turn has little difficulty in finding money for matters and areas that are important to them – I have a little chat with it from other negotiating rooms, a bit of random choice, but take, for example, police/intelligence — in this context of symptomatic treatment, it is quite difficult to understand. The fact that the Labour Party can't be involved in this either, especially with the rhetoric they use, unfortunately gets involved in a pattern, because they're more concerned about saying the right things rather than prioritizing the right things. Since this proposal from the Left, which I now see quite incomprehensiblely fall, I warn, with a little bit of a heart, that today we are therefore going to vote for proposal No. 5 about a review with a NOU, but then with the premise that this cannot delay the work that is announced in this message, which is authoritative. We are also grateful that the Committee has come up with many good proposals to address some of the economic challenges. In particular, this is the proposal to abolish the pension conditions for foster parents and to ensure equivalent framework conditions for foster parents in municipal foster homes. A situation with negotiations between local authorities with budgetary responsibilities on the one hand and new foster parents on the other is not necessarily a situation that looks at the best of the children in the centre. We shall therefore vote in favour of the Committee's proposals and in addition to proposal No. 1, from the minority. With this I take up the proposal No. 6-11, from the left. Proposal No. 12 I draw with the simple reason that we have been assured that the running evaluation takes place from the department's side anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1935	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to – the proposals No. 6-11, from the Left – and notified proposal No. 12 is drawn. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1940	There were just some en route clarifications that distracted us a little bit. I want to ask a question to the representative Breivik, because he was now quite clear on how hopeless it was that we did not bring that money to increase the compensation for foster homes already in 2017. There could be an exciting and tough fight in that budget anyway. We have asked a little about it and have not received such clear feedback that it is the rate that triggers more foster homes, but there are many other things that should first be fixed. I wonder if the representative Breivik has any other feedback that he can share with us, which says that exactly raising a tiny neighbor at that rate triggers many new foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1948	Me and the Left would have liked to have entered into a constructive dialogue on what is the most accurate from the first hour. At the same time, I'm completely overconfident that foster home worship is also important in this context. But what I think is regrettable through the discussions that we have now had against the treatment in plenary, is that I do not feel that there has been any willingness to put any money into the pot at all. For me, it's quite incomprehensible given how much we would have gotten back for a reasonable amount of effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1955	There are a number of other proposals on this matter that the masses have gathered on, and one of the things they have gathered on is that you have to look at the pension and insurance conditions of these foster homes, and that it becomes predictable and a good framework. This could also require some costs. This has given us very clear feedback that there is something that should be given priority, which means something to many. Does the representative Breivik see that there is also a cost that we might have to prioritise first? That's at least a background for us to think like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1960	I fully agree that this is an extremely important area, and that we respond to this and make changes that benefit the loss that some foster homes are unfortunately lir because they take on such an important social mission. What's a little bit of the problem is that there's a little bit of time ahead – here it requires an outlay – while the Left's proposal to do something about the foster home bets right away could actually be translated into practical action from New Year's, precisely because we're actually in an emergency situation where we have far too little access to foster homes, and we know that a lot of kids lir under there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1968	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for very good work and also the committee to gather on many proposals that will mean a lot in the lives of vulnerable children and young people. SV is as is known not part of the committee, but it was happy to read what the committee could gather around, and it bears the mark of good work. A safe home is a foundation of life, and a stable home is absolutely fundamental to all of us, especially for the smallest and especially for those who have experienced insecurity. That's why it's so important that we work together to better involve the kids involved. We know that children are not seen where children should be seen, whether it's about Nav, about health care or about child protection. It's a goal that kids go from being spectators to real actors in their own lives, where you're heard, where you have influence, and where you get to share in shaping your future. Therefore, it is so important to have a policy and a plan for foster homes as commodities, to prevent movement, to prevent fragmentation, to prevent new defeats and broken relationships. That's why it's so important that we work together for a complete and good foster care. A number of proposals have been made today which, in the SV's view, help to strengthen that very goal. So, in addition to supporting the Committee's position, SV will support the proposals of the minority, both the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, and the proposals of the Workers' Party alone. With regard to the Left's proposal, we support the proposal No. 6 and 7. We would like to agree with the intentions of the other Left proposals, but we fear that resources in already pressed bodies will go to bureaucracy and control. SV believes it is important to strengthen the child protection environments in municipalities, and that the most important thing we can do is to enable municipalities to do a good job. Then more resources and more professionals are needed rather than more control. Then it should be said that the most important control tool is the internal control regulation, and that it needs to be given higher priority by the vast majority of municipalities, because where internal control regulations work well, the quality is improved. But I would like to thank the Left for very good proposals, in particular the proposals No. 6 and 7, supported by SV – because proposal No. 6 provides for a strengthened framework for foster homes, and because proposal No. 7 in our view will make post-protection better. Strengthening post-protection is important, and it is important in what way it happens — that it is a right to receive post-protection, to have a follow-up, rather than an obligation to receive help. You have to be able to choose away child protection and after-shave protection at some point in your life, too. But it's clear that with the proper involvement of the one concerned, good post-protection will be essential to being able not only to stand on your own feet but to be able to move on on on your own and into society. I would like to support the representative, Mr Becquerad, in the fact that the really important thing now is to provide for a further follow-up to the communication, on what we are gathering about today. Making choices for young people who are exposed to care failure, who are unable to live at home, is a serious and important societal task and an important task. This is where professional assessments and policies have to meet in respectful association, and this is where we have to work to use the resources where they are needed, and for what they are meant to do. I would therefore like to say that there are particularly important proposals from both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre's private stakeholders. And we have to work to make foster home frames good. That is why I would like to stress once again the Left's proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox We all agree that we need to work systematically with the recruitment of foster homes, that we need a variety of foster homes, and that more people need to consider becoming foster parents. The framework is then relevant, and frameworks are more than just financial compensation. It's about the frames around a foster parent. I would like to thank the Committee once again. I would like to thank you for several good proposals that have been put forward here today, and also for a good debate. I hope and believe that today's treatment will help all those who have some care left over, to a greater extent will become or consider becoming foster parents, so that more kids can experience safe and good homes and stability in a life that may otherwise have been affected by uncertainty and insecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e1986	I would like first of all to thank the Committee for the good work that has been done. The setting indicates that there is a broad consensus about the main lines in this field. In addition, a unanimous committee has made several concrete proposals for improvements. These are proposals that will be followed up and underline the importance of work on foster home care. I just want to make a little comment on the arrogance shown by some representatives from the Workers' Party, when they are amazed that good proposals have been made by the Stortinget. Maybe they forgot that for eight years they voted against all the good proposals from the Stortinget. It would be wonderful if I could not recognise as the Council of State that the Storting too can make good suggestions in such a case. In addition to the now-treated foster home communication, we also have a child protection committee dealing with several of the issues raised by the committee. We are also in the process of consulting a new quality and structural reform of child protection which affects several of these themes. When the state assumes an important parenting role for children who need help, we also have a responsibility to give all children living in foster homes, a safer and more stable everyday life than they had before. This is the first time we've sent a message to the Stortinget about foster care. It makes the challenges we face today in foster home care, while the main part takes into account what we need to do to increase quality, achieve stability for the children and avoid moving. I want to present three main themes in the message: finding adequate foster homes for all children who need them and, in particular, providing better guidance and follow-up to foster homes; We need to ensure that children have measures that meet their needs. Good monitoring of the child’s resources and challenges is necessary to find the right foster home or institution and to avoid moving. Such screening will also be good for foster parents, who then know more about the challenges facing the child. We need to increase the quality of monitoring and investigation. Therefore, the Government of the Communication proposes the development of a national system for the monitoring of children. We know we have challenges in recruiting sufficient numbers and proper foster homes, despite the fact that more foster homes are now being recruited than ever. However, it is gratifying that after several years of targeted work to increase the number of foster homes in families and networks, we now see results. In 2014 was 44 pst. of new positions in foster homes in relatives and networks, while the total number of children in such foster homes was 25 pst. The use of family councils is a key to recruiting multiple foster homes in families and networks. Therefore, we want to clarify the municipality's obligation to assess the family council by recruitment. In the new quality and structural reform that is now being consulted, we are also proposing to legislate on the responsibility of the municipality to always assess whether any of the relatives and close networks of children can be selected as foster homes, as well as the municipality's obligation to follow up every child in foster homes. We need foster homes that can meet the needs of different children. It is therefore important to give priority to recruiting foster homes for young people, siblings, children with disabilities and children with a minority background. Many foster homes make an invaluable effort. To prevent foster homes from giving up, so that the children have to move, we need to strengthen the guidance and follow-up of the individual family. Safe foster parents who get good follow-up and knowledge of how to deal with difficult situations are the most important things we can do to make the child well. Increased financial compensation shall continue to be an important instrument. However, strengthening measures must be based on the needs of each child. In order to achieve a more predictable system in this assessment, professional guidance is necessary. Today it is KS that sets the guidance rates for foster home care. However, it is important that each child and family are treated individually, because the needs of the individual are different. In many cases, there is more guidance and follow-up that may make a difference in how the foster home manages a new family member. In other cases, there might be other things that play in. There are many important themes in the message that I could highlight in this article. But our main goal – and as I also notice there is a great deal of consensus in the Storting – is to give the children who need it, a safer and more stable everyday life, no matter what situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2033	When the Stortinget examined the Left’s proposal on a NOU, the Stortinget chose to have confidence that the Council of State was well-informed on the main challenges. We read from the 14-month-old letter from the Council of State that the challenges of following up and guiding foster parents' financial conditions were essential for recruiting and preventing accidental fractures, so that the child had to leave. And: ‘There were already a number of measures in place to meet these challenges.’ It is no exaggeration to say that the message does not meet the expectations, which is confirmed by the presales that are now being adopted here today. Can the Council of State understand that we in the Storting are impatient on behalf of the vulnerable children and foster parents, and that we want a NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2040	I fully understand that the Storting is impatient, and that was precisely on the basis that the majority of the population decided to make a big message. With the proposals in the proposition being discussed today, I feel that there is a clear marshalling ground for the government: start working. With the proposal to create a NOU – to set up a selection with a mandate that will work one and a half to two years, and that will then be consulted to make a case for the Stortinget: I am a little overwhelmed by that impatience. I am impatient to initiate the measures contained in the communication, as well as the work the Stortinget has asked us to intensify. Then I don't understand the background to postpone this work by getting a NOU in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2047	The message goes into the range of good descriptions and some good actions presented by the government. But the government is not listening, and what should concern the Council of State is perhaps the organisations' response to the hearing. They weren't happy. It's not arrogant or surprising for the members of the Storting that we have to do the job, it's very good, it's good that we've managed to do it. But what does the Council of State think? Does the Council of State now think that we should have a NOU in addition to, of course, working in parallel with implementing measures? It's not like the world stops because if you start a NOU. That means that we also take a more thorough review of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2053	I can assure the representative that this work will not stop, because we are already doing well to improve foster care. Many of the measures contained in the Communication, which the Storting is now behind, will be followed up. There are many speeches here that there are challenges – we agree on the challenges. One part of this message describes the challenges, and we agree on that. But how are we going to be able to meet these challenges? I believe that we meet the challenges of looking at the monitoring, of better family guidance and follow-up, and not least of doing something about the big differences in municipalities – and recruiting more foster homes in networks and relatives. I am happy to have the user organisations, and I meet children from both the Change Factory and the National Association for Child Protection, who very clearly say that this is a message that has a clear child perspective. It addresses the challenges they think foster homes have to be able to create safe, good and stable conditions for them. It's a work that we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2062	Let me be clear – very clear – on one thing: if there is a majority for a NOU today, that does not mean that the other proposals for which there is also a majority should be put to rest. We have a expectation that the government will implement what the proposals contain. It will also be the case that in this area the message, and perhaps not all of the proposals, does not address all of the challenges facing foster homes, which may require a NOU. Let me point out in one area: that municipalities will take more responsibility for child protection services. This is based on a pilot scheme in three municipalities. I'm concerned that this trial scheme might not keep the whole goal, that we don't get the broad basis to be able to assess whether it's right to leave more responsibility to the municipalities based on this trial scheme. This is of the things that would fit well into the work of a NOW. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2069	First of all, I would like to recommend the representative, Bekkewold, to read the hearing on new child protection reform which is now being consulted. It says about the three experimental municipalities that are being evaluated, and there is the very clear direction that the government wants to put in place to improve child protection in the future. There are many suggestions in the foster home communication that are being considered today. There have been many concrete proposals from the Storting, on which I mainly support them, and on which I will of course follow up. However, I must say that the mandate of the NOU from the Storting is unclear, and in which areas the work needs to be intensified. The representative of the Labour Party is clear that very many of the economic proposals under consideration and what goes on rights — there are several proposals there — should enter a NOU in order to get a broader overall picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2078	It's kind of interesting to hear the rhetoric of government parties right now. In the next debate we're going to have in Stortinget, the argument from the government parties is that we can't adopt anything now, because we have to wait for a NOW. And now the matter is on the contrary that we must not adopt any NOW now, because we are going to act now. The point of the opposition here is exactly what Geir Jørgen Bekkevold points to, that there is no contradiction here. We have a number of proposals that we want to adopt in Stortinget today. In addition, we want to have a complete review of the entire field. It must be possible to combine both. Then I register that Horne claims that the hall is arrogant and that we are surprised that there are proposals from Stortinget. No, we are not surprised that there are proposals from the Stortinget. What we are surprised about is that there are no proposals from the government parties – when, as Solvency Horne himself says, eight years in opposition and proposed. Why not use the chance when you actually got the power and the confidence of the voters and the opportunity to make those proposals in a big message, when you have the chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2087	Perhaps what surprises the representative of Grande is that the Stortinget proposal actually gets a majority today – without me going further into it. There are many proposals in the big message that are being considered today, and it is only to read the proposals that come from the government, where – clearly – we do something with recruitment, guidance and follow-up, better monitoring of the individual child and national, professional recommendations to follow up and make a comparison of the differences that exist there. That there are then other proposals that underline the main lines of the government's communication, and that also reinforce the work that Stortinget believes the government should do, I only see that as a strength. This is a field in which we all engage, an important field, in order to ensure a better everyday life for children when the state takes responsibility, and then we actually owe those children a better follow-up than they've had before. So it has been that the Workers' Party has been sitting for eight years and voting on all the good proposals on foster homes. That is why I am pleased that they now support quite a number of proposals contained in this Communication, and that the roll-out message that is being promoted actually receives a majority, as well as a number of other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2096	I think it's pretty amazing when we hear the rhetoric here, because that's not right. First, it was systematically working on this even in the eight years when the red-green government had the opportunity to control this field. At the same time, we recognise that there are still many major challenges that remain. That's why we would at least have thought that the government parties would stand for what they stood for in opposition, and would promote those suggestions when they had the chance, in their own big message. When this does not happen, it is gratifying that the Stortinge is able to come together for joint proposals that can further strengthen the field. So – in addition to that – there is now an invitation from the opposition parties to further enter this field by getting a proper mapping and a NOU on the field. Can the Council of State at least accept that invitation to get the opportunity to enter this field in a thorough manner, so that we can also gather on some new good, concrete proposals for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2103	When Stortinget discussed the proposal of a NOU for a while back, that decision was made because we were impatient, we knew we had many investigations, we knew what the challenges were, and we wanted a concrete action, which a big message gives. When the bulk of the population now wants a NOU, the bulk of the population will of course get a NOU about this work – no problem – but at least I want to assure both the Stortinget and the representative that this important work will not be due to a NOU. We're going to start this work with the points that are now sitting here. However, I would like to stress that I am not quite able to get what the NOU should contain in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2110	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2113	I wanted to remind myself of the title of the matter: foster home for the best of my children. For the children's sake! Like the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation in this important matter. Just the basic agreement that this is an important matter for a group of young people in our country has been the driving force in getting a unified position on the matter. At the same time, this is a field in which the Committee has followed closely, both in contact with children who have been part of the system, in foster homes, and not least in the municipal services around the country responsible for follow-up. The biggest challenge we're facing is the lack of foster homes. Right now there are hundreds of children around our country who need care and security in a new home that needs to wait and wait, and move around to temporary solutions. Many of these are going through the toughest time of their lives, and we're not going to be able to give them quick and proper follow-up. It really hurts. The very frames around foster homes have also been a central part of the discussion between us politicians. It's challenging in itself. We remind ourselves, all the time, that the best of the child is to be taken into account in the choices made in the many difficult cases. At the same time, it is impossible not to discuss the assumptions and frameworks of those to be appointed. I am pleased that there are some very central topics in this discussion on which there is an agreement in the committee. First, foster parents should not lose out on opening their home to children who need it. In other words, if, upon receipt of a child, or during periods of special challenges surrounding the child, you need to take time off from your work in order to take care of the child, there must be arrangements to ensure, for example, that: pensions and insurance are well cared for. Taking responsibility on behalf of the great community must not trigger punishment, but rather be rewarded. That is why it is an overall committee that asks the government to look at this. The other committee has gathered on – as an experience after many things we hear about, and foster parents we have met – is that foster parents experience a lack of rights in decisions for the children. The Committee therefore asks the government to look at how this can be corrected, always with the child’s best interests in mind. Foster children are like all other children – individual children with individual needs. They must also receive a follow-up that follows this. It makes it difficult to combine the need for coordinated national frameworks that provide predictability and the possibility of adaptation to individual children. However, we have gathered on a desire for equal treatment as a basis, around the country, also in the hope that such non-discrimination will lead to increased recruitment of new homes. It has been exciting to hear about and meet people who are deeply committed to the children's thinking new and who actively challenge their environment to become foster homes. Last week the committee was traveling to Bergen and met there employees in the Child Protection Unit who could tell that conscious thinking about recruiting foster homes in the neighborhood until the children had given good results. Both family, friends and circles around school and kindergarten were involved — it is easier to engage with Åshild and Robert, as they know, than a general call as a foster home. This challenges us all – and should. Not unexpectedly there are also some things that are not fully agreed on. The need and priority to escalate the compensation to foster homes is such a matter. For us in the Right, we cannot see that we have received clear signals that it is the amount of compensation that is essential for the recruitment. As mentioned earlier, we agree to look at the conditions for foster parents, but to lock large sums in a tight budget for this increase we cannot agree. Partly for the same reason, we're skeptical of the proposal for a NOU. A NOW will take several years to get in place and cost millions. We are impatient and will make improvements in a continuous dialogue between the government and the magnificence. We're afraid that a NOU will put action and decisions on hold. The children who are going to foster homes need our help, the foster homes need our contribution to a good support service in the municipalities, and we need to get more foster homes in place quickly – now! A NOW will naturally contribute to a postponement. Foster home for the best of children!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2141	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2144	Some of the most basic values for children are growing up in a safe, stable and predictable environment. Many will claim that this is absolutely vital to what your life will be like when you are an adult. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child stresses that the best interests of the child should be at the heart of public action which may affect the growing conditions of children. Most people agree with this principle, but it is also important that this should be seen in the context of Article 12, which gives children the right to promote their views based on age and maturity. Therefore, the child’s best concern is about the child’s right to be heard or a child’s perspective if you want to. This must be the starting point for all foster home work – from child protection research to county and later place in foster homes. A fundamental challenge in foster home placement is the interaction between the child, the foster home and the biological family. The child shall be established in a new family and at the same time there shall be contact with the biological family in order for the child to know its history. This is challenging for all parties, but crucial for the child’s care. Some children experience being moved from one foster home to another — several times. This is unfortunate and may challenge the safety and stability that children, who have already experienced a lot of uncertainty, need. It is therefore important to focus more on parental guidance and training in order to meet the challenges that foster children may face. Foetal parents should be well informed about what it means to be a foster home, but also challenged by the inter-relationship and how they jointly solve problems that may arise. Children in foster homes shall be accompanied by regular supervision visits in order to ensure that they receive the care they need. Attention must be paid not only to the number of visits but also to the fact that the visits are seen as meaningful for the child and that at the same time there is an experience of being heard. Now, when a message is sent to the Stortingen on foster homes for the benefit of the child, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the government for putting an important issue for children on the agenda, but also for the exciting and interesting work that has taken place in the committee. Let's not forget that work with foster homes requires well-trained social workers, good foster homes and a child perspective where children are listened to when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2164	The fact that the Committee has agreed on so many proposals is gratifying, for this is a matter in which party policy is not the most prominent. Prevention is the best thing. Growing up with biological parents is good, if it works. I am pleased that we get a majority for a proposal where we ask the government to look at actions that can be put in place in advance, if one discovers that a pregnant mother needs extra support in retrospect. It could make that mother a good mother. Early interventions provide young people with an opportunity to get the good home, and that must be our goal — preventing rather than repairing is the best thing. Children need care, love and stability, and we have tried to create some of it through our proposals because the kids deserve it. There are, as the representative Bekkevold said, many great foster parents who make a formidable, great effort on behalf of us others, and they need an extra thank you for the job they do, but then we also have to give them conditions that they can live with, and guidance that they need when they say they need it. Many foster parents also demand rights in relation to their children. They have kids for many years and are happy with them, and then all of a sudden they're gone. Lack of association and opportunity to be with them are difficult many times, and therefore we are promoting proposals for party rights that you should look at. Another proposal concerns the appeals of biological parents, which I believe are very important. It is important that biological parents can appeal every year, but most people do so without much change in the matter. It hurts the kids and reduces their stability. We therefore believe that this should be looked at. We would have liked to have supported the Center Party in their desire not to open up to more commercial players, but it is such that at least in proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, has asked that the matter be reviewed. I recognise that we need to have private operators on that market for so long. The proposal to launch a NOU has become a major issue here, and it is not like that either–or. It won't be that way that we say here that we're now putting a line for foster care, and then we stop. I think the Council of State will come up with a lot of measures if this NOU is adopted, and then the Council of State will continue to work and will find out more good measures in the field of foster home care. She doesn't stop working with good politics. The broad review that we want has to go parallel. That's why we don't think that a government council is shutting down and saying that now I've been advised from Stortinget that I'm not going to do anything else – we don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2181	Today's families are more diverse than before. It is important that the diversity of families is also reflected in the recruitment of foster families. Married couples with or without children, cohabitants with or without children, LHBT people with or without children, single parents, lone parents — yes, they are all examples of the diversity of different forms of family in Norway. It is important that we see the individual’s ability to care as the most important parameter for whether one can be well suited as a foster family, small or large family community. If we are to increase the proportion that wants to participate and do an important care task as a foster home, it is important that we politically facilitate the diversity of homes, the diversity of how the family is organized, and that we see that positive and recognise that diversity. In the Storing message «Security and care. The foster home for the best of children’ states that when choosing foster homes, the child protection service shall take into account the child’s religious, cultural and linguistic background. It is therefore important that we today point out this right in relation to children under the responsibility of child protection. In the case of Sami children, this is consideration that we have to take special responsibility for and shed light on, that we are facilitating the recruitment of enough Sami foster homes ready to provide care, to be a cultural bearer for those children who need it. It is important that the communication is followed up with concrete measures in this area too, i.e. measures relating to Sami children. Finally, I would like to point out that I thought it was sad to experience the beginning of Councillor Horne's posts today. I believe that the attack on the Workers' Party was not justified, but I see it as a response to the pressure from a government council, pressured by feedback from both the trade unions and us today and the time in advance of the lack of action in several key areas of the message she delivered to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2194	I need a little explanation of vote from the Progress Party and the Right. We will vote in favour of proposal No. 15 and No 18-20, from the Center Party. At the same time, I want to point out some things that seem to go a little bit in the notebook. The government has here presented a message that goes through the details of what it is about, where they also provide summaries and measures. At each point they have here, it says ‘to contribute’, ‘to develop’, ‘to assess the provision of further training’, ‘to investigate more closely’, and it says ‘to recruit — it says a lot in this message. And I'm not afraid that our Council of State won't go hard in order to implement all these measures in a good and proper way – I just care that all these measures are taken and put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2201	This is really just a brief explanation for our vote as well. We had intended to support the Left's proposal No. 12, but it's drawn. Otherwise, we support the proposal No. 14–21 from the Centre Party and hope that part of them will also be given a majority. The children ask for stability, they ask for care and love, and through the treatment we have now done, I hope that more children can get a better daily life. I also repeat that I thank the Committee for a very good job and good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2212	I would like to stress that here there is no government council feeling pressured, and at the beginning of my speech I thanked the Committee for a good work and for the proposals that lie here. The attitude shows a broad consensus on the main lines and challenges we have in foster home care. When the Workers' Party takes every opportunity to ridicule the fact that the Stortinge comes forward with its own proposals in addition to what the government has proposed, I believe it speaks for itself. For eight years, the Labour Party sat down and voted on all the good proposals for foster home care that came from the opposition. It was very rare that proposals from the Stortinget were adopted. I will be so humble and say that I believe that the Storting can produce good policies and make good proposals that can make a big message even better than what the government has presented. What's happy is that the proposals that get the majority of people work with the Children's Protection Act Committee. The government is already working, not least with the new child protection reform, which is being consulted. In the end, I would like to stress briefly what the rapporteur raised about the unborn life. Getting in early and prevention is one of the most important work we can do — preventing and helping families by working together to create safe and good parents to care for their children. I also believe that the work that is being done on family protection and health care is helping to ensure that more children get a safe daily life from their biological parents. The work of clarifying that it is the responsibility of municipalities to use family councils, to look in networks and relatives when you are going to find a foster family, I am pleased that we are doing well, and it is a work to be intensified in the future. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate and good input and suggestions for improvements in this area. It is an area where we need to be politically united, because there are children who need a better everyday life – which we want to give them – that we are debating here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2237	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2244	Thank you to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. We've said it many times, and we're going to say it many more times: the media in large parts of the world are in the middle of turbulent times. We can no longer say that they are in transition, because the first Norwegian online newspaper has already rounded its 20th anniversary. The new has been the intensification of competition from foreign actors that provide a large part of the advertising market, while challenging the subscription model. But even it can no longer be called a new situation. The fact remains, however, that Norwegian media are in the midst of a difficult situation. While a newspaper is to maintain the traditional offer of paper, the same paper is to be an innovator in a digital market, a market where few have temporarily broken the code: how to convert the reader’s interest in enough money to create sustainability. In Norway, we redispatch directly and indirectly close to 8 billion. kr from you and me to Norwegian media. It takes the form of NRK licences, VAT exemptions, production grants, distribution grants and some other larger and smaller schemes. There is a lot of money, and it is necessary money in a small language area and therefore also a small market. We want and we want to facilitate that Norwegian quality content is made available to everyone. It's part of the core wall of our democracy. However, there is reason to believe that if we had sat down today and said that this is day zero in the new media reality, and then we had to dispose of the 8 billion. distribution with the aim of facilitating quality and diversity in Norway — well, then we would hardly have started to create the jungle of schemes that exist today. Several schemes are both a patchwork carpet and immature and preserving. As a fundamental idea, we should think neutrally about the platform and the channel, and in principle about suppliers and owners. The aim shall be to facilitate Norwegian quality journalism and the provision of Norwegian languages, mediating Norwegian culture, and also an important contribution to the integration challenges we face. To try to figure out the right way forward, we've started a number of different processes. The challenge is that we want to take care of what we have, while at the same time we need to fix what's coming. This means that the various processes intervene, and the desire for a kind of relaunch of media policy is almost impossible. We have already completed the course for the NRK in the coming years. We've said that we want commercial public broadcasting, and we're going to take the debate on both funding the NRC and how we're going to facilitate commercial public broadcasting. In that debate, we will probably also discuss what we mean by public broadcasting in 2016. This means that we have already promised a large part of the media and the framework conditions before the next stage of development is to be discussed. That is why we look forward to the conclusions and recommendations of the Media Diversity Committee next year, although some premises have already been given. Throwing in additional solutions now, prior to the work of the sample, would be unwise. Quick moves without further discussion may seem tantamount, but there is a risk we do not have to take now. Nor is it the case that the economic challenge for media in Norway is isolated to a particular group of media. It is therefore contrary to a principle approach if we are now going to try a fancy quick-fix for some selected newspapers. It is a hollowing out of the attempt to create a more holistic, modern and neutral media policy. The proposal is conservative. The future arrangements shall facilitate quality journalism, Norwegian content and media that see power in the cards, both nationally and locally. The local newspapers, in line with all other media, are also dependent on innovation and development, and it is my goal that future schemes should stimulate this, also for the important local ways, so that local ways can continue to be important, not only as newspapers, but also good local media in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2263	The production grant scheme has been a major success. If one compares the Norwegian media diversity with most other countries, we see what it has meant. To the claim that it has worked as a preservative, I can only show that since 1990 110 new local guides have been launched, partly because we have had a good order. The aim of the production grant is to help maintain a high-quality media diversity and independent journalism. At the same time, the new challenges facing the media industry — including all beneficiaries of production grants — are very demanding, as was the case with the rapporteur. There are very tough times in the fight for readers and advertising crowns, and many of the smallest newspapers have also come short in the digital transition. We believe – like the recording we have received from the Landslag für lokalviser – that a higher production grant to just locals would help more people succeed in the digital transition and not least help more people to have a stronger editorial environment. Both components are important and would have fulfilled much of the purpose of the production grant. I also think that if several locals could have done more with the digital transition, it would in the long term make them less dependent on production subsidies in the future. Unfortunately, what we are seeing today is that as low a grant as some local guides receive is not a sufficient contribution to succeeding either with their editorial ambitions or with the digital transition. What we are asking for in this proposal is an assessment of how this could possibly be implemented. We do not propose a specific model. We don't suggest a quick fix. We are simply proposing that this should be assessed and reviewed. And we are somewhat disappointed that the government parties do not show interest in the local authorities being able to get a financial boost. On the contrary, the Right-wing Party Government has proposed to reduce the production grant for all the production beneficiaries every time they have had the opportunity. This combination of both proposing to reduce the level of production subsidies and the reluctance we see to make adjustments or, at least, assessments of adjustments shows that the government has not taken up the demanding situation that many local authorities are experiencing. We recognise that if this were to be carried out, there would probably be a need for a refill in the production grant in order to avoid that some of those who are currently large beneficiaries of production subsidies have to take a big cut. In this context, we refer to our alternative government budget where, year after year, we have proposed to significantly increase production subsidies in relation to the government's proposals. It's obvious that the Right Party and the Advance Party don't quite know what they want in this case, and then it might make sense to refer to a media diversity selection, but here it's at least clear that you're talking to yourself in the rhetoric and in the comments. First, the parties agree with us that the locals are particularly vulnerable, and write it in a note. But at the same time they write that development cannot be isolated into a particular group. They also write that many of the other media in the production grant scheme are equally in need of support. In other words, they recognise the need for production subsidies. At the same time, they are making every single attempt in connection with the state budget to cut the whole scheme. That might be where the whole resistance to our proposal lies. But then comes the most comical: ‘It is this majority’s view that preserving policies, based on the idea that today’s media image should form a template for the future, are not what the industry needs.’ So at the same time, the government parties refuse to make an adjustment to the grant. They also write that today’s system is ‘comprehensive and flexible’, despite the fact that government parties have previously considered the scheme to be conservative. So where they used to think that the system was preservative, they have become the largest trailer today – that is, they have become preservatives themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2294	Would the representative like to take up the proposal of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2297	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2302	The representative of Arild Grande then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2305	Real freedom of expression and a free and independent press are prerequisites for a healthy democracy and a living social debate. The media’s traditional funding models are under pressure and the media market, which has been largely protected by languages and national borders, has been globalised. In this picture, good framework conditions are very important for national media companies that have ambitions to deliver quality journalism. Local media are important cultural carriers, which contribute to living communities and ensure that the breadth of views emerges in public vocabulary. The nationwide, regional and local media play together and provide a broad spectrum of societal debate. This is important that we are able to put good frameworks around, so that we can have them in the future as well. There is no doubt that many are struggling, both with the digital transition and through fewer ad crowns. Nevertheless, the picture is not unique, and we're a little bit unsure whether a general raising of the minimum rate is a consistent solution. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the press support should be adapted in such a way that it also incorporates a changed media everyday. That is why we regard it as important and we are pleased that an overall committee also refers to the reduced Media Diversity Committee and that, of course, it should also discuss production aid. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party wants to continue the press support in order to ensure a rich flora of both paper newspapers and online newspapers that are published nationally, regionally and locally, and we want to ensure good framework conditions for national media companies in the meeting with the global media competition. This is important that we focus strongly on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2316	No one reads more newspapers than the Nordics, and what separates us most from other countries is the flora of small local newspapers — especially those that only come in the mailbox a few days a week. In fact, according to the Newspaper Year, which is an annual status report from the Højskulen in Volda, there are still almost 230 newspapers in Norway — in almost 190 different places. The many independent editorials spread throughout the country are an important feature of the Norwegian newspaper system. But less newspapers are struggling financially, seams if their market position is strong. The right hand and the forward hand must then realise that the market forces alone are short in maintaining a differentiated local press. It is good that the production grant has now been neutralised. Such an adjustment was forward-looking and in line with current media reality, where online publishing has become an important part of the newspapers’ activities and readers’ everyday lives. Local newspaper shows what's happening, and what people mean in the districts, in the village and in the city district. Local newspaper is the main venue for debate on local issues and the visibility of local culture. Production support for local services is therefore a question of local democracy and culture for all those living in a rural or urban area. The centre will stress that most small localities come out into nutrient-poor areas and depend on production support to cope and to produce good newspaper products that people see useful. It is therefore important to increase support for the smallest localities. The aim of the production grant is to contribute to a strong media diversity across the country. As has been said, localisations form a very important part of the Norwegian newspaper flora and represent key prerequisites for local democracy as news agents and identity bearers in the community. It is well known that the papers experience very rough times in the struggle for readers and advertising heads. Many of the smallest newspapers also have a demanding boost to stick to the digital transition. The media surveillance figures show that the majority of the eligible media have a modest digital presence and that developments in the advertising market will increase the pressure to put digital solutions in place. Suffering from media storage revenue increases, media advertising revenue decreases so much that a large number of large and small media have been deficiting in recent years. There is reason to believe that advertising revenue will continue to fall in due time and that the case will affect all types of eligible media. With a higher production grant, they will be able to ensure further operation and the ability to develop good online newspapers, which can in the long term make localisations less dependent on state subsidies. On this basis, the Central Party supports the proposal to raise the minimum rate. The Party agrees with the proposers that an increased minimum rate will mean that the budget framework for the production grant will be increased so that the largest newspapers will not be able to reduce their subsidies. An increase in total production aid is absolutely necessary, also as a result of the fact that digital media are now included in the scheme. When several share the same cake, we cannot at the same time make cake smaller, as the government has tried earlier in this period in its budget proposals. I would therefore ask the government parties to take the situation seriously and not to try new cuts in the press support to balance the government's forthcoming draft government budget. The level of production aid must at all times take into account the real economic needs of the beneficiaries, in line with the objectives of the press support scheme. In the opinion of the Centre Party, an increase in production aid in the broad context is a cheap investment in democracy and living communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2344	On Friday I was traveling in Hordaland, and there I visited the locality «Women's Herringen». They were named European Local Authorities of the year in 2015. They deliver an impressive good locality, but it's tough times for all the locals, along with our other media. Nevertheless, we see that they are looking for good solutions not just to survive, but to ensure a good media diversity for an avoshung audience like we nordics are. That was also why the government set up the Media Diversity Committee to ensure future localisations, but also to other parts of the press, so that Norwegian quality content could also be delivered in the foreseeable future. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee is not now in favour of changes that will fundamentally transform the system for the calculation of media support, in particular given that the Media Diversity Committee has just been set up to see this in its entirety and to assess the complexity of the various media. I believe that, first of all, it is the wrong time for such a conversion. The new platform-neutral production grant was introduced relatively recently, and I also believe that today’s system is far more accurate than a fixed minimum grant of 1 million. kr. Today, the Ministry sets annual grant rates determining the allocation of the allocation between the different groups of media covered by the scheme. It is precisely intended to enable the distribution to be adjusted in the light of economic developments in the various media groups. This proposal was then discussed with the National Association of Media Enterprises before a decision was taken by the Department. The system there thus provides some necessary flexibility, while at the same time being fundamentally predictable, and it also ensures the transparency of the industry and ensures participation in the distribution. By comparison, a fixed minimum grant proposed here by the Workers' Party will amount to 1 million. kr hit badly, and it can soon be a very out-of-date system that takes account of the development we see in the Norwegian media industry. It's not like those that get less than 1 million. In addition, there is a greater need for increased support than for other groups. On the contrary, these include the groups of media in the scheme that have the absolute best economy. There is also something that the majority of the committee comments on in the position, and I think that is right. It is also the case that such a scheme requires a significant increase in the grant framework, and it is also clear to the proposers. It is not the government's policy to increase media support; it is also clear in our political platform. On the other hand, we want to look at how we can modernise, how we can streamline and target the tools, so that we get maximum media pluralism out of every public crown we use, and we are many who have great expectations that the Media Diversity Committee will offer us proposals. However, I would like to make it clear that I strongly support the rapporteurs' description of the challenges facing the industry, and I hope that the Stortinget, when the Media Multiplicity Committee makes its proposals, will be interested in discussing how, overall, we can contribute to the entry of a single Press and Media Norway into a time when we ensure quality journalism and media diversity for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2361	It's obvious that right-wing logic in this area is about, since everyone has the same evil, we're going to cut for everyone, instead of what we recognize, that yes, everyone has big challenges, but the smallest have enough of the toughest challenges – as the media market looks like today – to succeed in the digital transformation. That is why we have this proposal to investigate an increase in the minimum rates, combined with the fact that we also want an increase in the framework with regard to the production grant scheme as such. Does the opposition of the government parties to this proposal really concern this, that such a proposal would mean that we have to increase the production grant, because the Government Party's plan is to continue to cut the production grant for all further?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2368	There is no doubt that the government does not believe that the only solution is to increase the production grant. It's on the platform of this government, so it can't come as a surprise even to the representative of Grande. But when it is said: the background to not wanting to support such a proposal is that we want to look at how we can ensure Norwegian media diversity – and make it based on a total assessment. That's why we put down the Media Diversity Committee, so that you could see this in its entirety, not just agree to solutions for some parts of the press – and in this case only local viewers – but ensure the entire flora of Norwegian media as we enter a new era, which requires major conversion of Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2373	We have agreed to set up the Media Diversity Committee. We've made it clear in many ways that we think it's right to see the whole field as a whole. In fact, the Labour Party has had its own democracy and media committee, which has worked for a long time, and has made many suggestions on how this can be resolved. No one should believe that it is either about putting down a sample or about proposing measures – that is both. In parallel with looking at this overall from the sample side, you should not get into a situation where the cow dies while the grass grows. Now there are major changes in the media industry, and it is important that we are on the verge of how we can facilitate the continuation of the strong media diversity we have in Norway. We did that in the general programming agreement, and we're also trying to do that. Why does the Council of State have such a reluctance to consider at all to follow up on developments and take action, when she sees that there are many actors under pressure here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2380	Whether locals live or die – I don't think it says in a few months. I am more optimistic on behalf of Norwegian localisers than that. I took this initiative and the proposal seriously. That is why I also obtained an investigation from the Media Authority that showed that the media received less than 1 million. kr, do not have a greater operational economic need for increased grants than other media in the scheme. When this investigation showed that, I could not recommend the government parties to come up with a proposal that claimed anything other than that the Media Authority's investigation showed. I think there's a reason for actually now to have respect for the professionals who are put together in this sample, who are going to present a NOU, and that the department gets to continue working with this NOU, and then it's being presented to the Stortinget. I think everyone deserves that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2385	Of course, we should have respect for this process, and I think there is no contradiction between that and constantly developing media policy from this house as well. We cannot short-circuit the whole policy development of Stortinget because the Council of State has a sample running. There was some of the main points of the previous Council of State in the previous debate in this Chamber – that if the Stortinget wants a NOU, the Stortinget will get a NOU, but it must not prevent the government from making proposals if you see that there is a need for it. But then I hear the opposite message from this council – that because we have a sample, we are not going to make any proposals. So now we're going to sit and wait until spring 2017, when this sample comes with its investigation. Then it is a clear fact that nothing will happen to the media policy of this government until the next majority period. I'm afraid that you've come into a situation where we have quite major challenges, which have become even bigger because the government is refusing. Then we have to work to get a new majority who will be able to implement a more offensive media policy from the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2392	I need to stress again that when there is no need to introduce a fixed minimum grant of 1 million. kr, as the Labour Party claims, and the investigation I have obtained from the Media Authority shows that media receiving less than 1 million. kr, does not have a greater operational economic need for increased grants than other media schemes, so it is clear to me why I am pleased that this proposal does not receive a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2397	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2402	I feel I have to be allowed to say a few words here. I have a past in my working life from just this industry, and I have also had the pleasure of being the head of the National Association of Media Companies for a number of years. I guess I'm saying this most to say that I have a certain thing about what we're talking about. To Arild Grande, I want to say, when he says that the Norwegian production grant system is a great success, that it has Arild Grande quite right in it. All the investigations that have been made over the years have said the same thing, that the legislation we have attached to this has been a success. Of course, it is also quite right that the higher the grants given to individual newspaper companies, the easier the operating economy they have. It says almost entirely itself. The representative of Grande is also quite right about that. It is just that it is widely known in this industry that the newspapers that have relatively least problems are just small and medium-sized localities. The biggest problems are actually not there, everyone knows that. It lies in the so-called nationwide, meaningful newspapers and the so-called Nos. The two papers. It's these papers that get the biggest grants, because they have the biggest problems. I see it as if this was the way it was agreed to give considerable support to the smaller newspapers, it would necessarily have to be taken from the same pot. It'll go beyond the newspapers that actually need it the most. It's an effect I don't think you should go into. It is correctly stated in the submissions here that it requires an increase in the production grant in order to achieve this. Yes, it is not in the proposal. If you take the proposal as it says, it's just that you have to raise the minimum rates. I don't exactly see realism in that you can expect it – and it's not just because I'm a member of the finance committee. But I don't think it's exactly a political mood to significantly increase production subsidies. And as long as you don't, the effect of this proposal will be relatively disastrous for some of the newspapers that really have problems. That's why I see it as the most sensible thing here, as the Council of State has said, is to wait for the investigation that comes from the Media Diversity Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2417	Just a short comment at the end. We've heard a lot of warmth, good posts from the right-hand side representatives to preserve today's order. In that case, it is entirely new that you think it is accurate. It's a completely different rhetoric than what we've heard from the Right Party and the Advance Party in previous years. The fact that the level is also thought to be correct is, in that case, historically new. I hope that means that no proposals will be made for new cuts, which will affect all the beneficiaries of production subsidies as such. I would like to stress that a proposal for an investigation, as we have outlined in the suspension, meant that it was in the government budget that it came back with an assessment of the increase in the minimum rates, and that then, of course, it had to be combined with an increase in the production grant – without the large recipients getting a big cut. I think we have a lot to look forward to changing the attitude of the government parties on what has previously been exclusively about cutting production subsidies to Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2444	Norwegian springing herring, so-called NVG herring, is Norway's most important pelagic resource. I am now recording that researchers and fishermen are not aware of the size of this important pelagic fish resource. Fish think the population is many times larger than the annual quota levels of researchers. In February 2016, during the NVG-sild spawn, the ring-nots pair measured MS Vendla herring entries in the sea area west of Northland. The fishermen say that the herring was measured acoustically with traditional hull-mounted echorods. In addition, sonar voices were counted to 2,000 metres apart on each side of the vessel. Before, during and after the stroke it was approx. 30 fishing vessels within the area, either by traditional fishing, such as a taxiboat itself or on sailglasses to or from fishing in Iceland. After the survey, the Marine Research Institute presented an echoload-based estimate of 56 000 tonnes. In addition, the Institute presented an estimate based on the average voice size of 10.3 tonnes. They picked up the number and they got to 59 000 tons. Five experienced skippers who were in the area under the stroke estimated the average voice size to be 257 tonnes. This voice size gives an estimate of between 1.6 and 1.7 million tonnes. This is in stark contrast to the marine scientists' 59 000 tonnes. I mean, this difference in perception of how much herring exists in the ocean is quite alarming. The distance between researchers and fishes is too large. Fishes and researchers are probably never sure how much fish are in the sea, but the distance in this case is so great that it's hard to find fishes and researchers, depending on who has the best estimate of how much is in the sea. Who do we really have to believe in? Is it the experienced fisherman who has fished through generations, or is it our reputable, good researchers? We have good people on both sides here. That's why I'm worried when the distance is so great. The answer is not obvious, and the answer is not easy either. Fish claim that herring is easily scarred during the winter season. To get a good measurement of herring hours, the skipper typically slows down to 3-4 buttons to be able to pass straight across the path to measure a realistic size of the path. When a seagoing vessel passes over an hour in 10 knots, which they often do when looking for herring, the voice is quickly frightened to the side of the vessel, and it may split up, and the measurement of the voice size is an underestimate because the herring has disappeared from the zone of search of the son or the echo. I myself have experienced this on a fishing boat. The fishermen believe that this scare effect, with the following underestimation with the echo sound of the vessel, which occurs when a research vessel crosses the path at high speed, may be some reason and the explanation for this difference in perception between scientists and fish. In addition to misestimation due to the hull-mounted echolodder method, fishermen over several years have pointed out that there are some large quantities of herring outside the coverage of the various herring octaves. This is pointed out by scientists at the Finnmarks coast, where a lot of young people have grown up in recent years. This area is not covered in the main target octave for the entire NVG population – this is because the Russians, who cover the Barents Sea, do not have the necessary permission to go within 12 nautical miles in the Norwegian zone. Before the spawn in 2015, fishermen also asked that the sea areas outside of Nordland and Troms be covered because they had observed winter herring there. This was rejected by the ocean scientists. The same thing happened this year, but then the fishermen themselves had paid for four sailing vessels and one towboat that covered the sea areas. So they found large amounts of herring that were not measured in 2015. In addition, fishermen claim that they informed the marine scientists early in January of this year that there was a lot of recruiting herring in the area between Malangsgrunden and Nordkapp. This was based on observations made by cod trawlers in the area. They found herring both in the bag and in the bag for the cod. This too was rejected by the marine scientists, says the fishermen. Young people are particularly important to be measured as part of the spawn because of the weak recruitment observed in the NVG population in recent years. Following the closure of the NVG herring, snorkeling fishermen outside the Vesterål experienced that a lot of recruiting herring came in from the northeast, in line with what the fishermen had warned the marine scientists about. The fishermen also claim that large herring hours were observed in the sea at 100 nautical miles west of the westernmost position of the tick, and they point out that the tick also did not go to zero in the north. So the fishers think there's a lot of herring outside the prey area that hasn't been measured or taken into account in the calculations of how much herring is in the ocean. Fishermen I meet, think it's important, and they demand, that investigations and trials be carried out that will clarify the problems of accuracy using hull-mounted echo loads in the measurement of herring and the surface area of the spawning area in general, close to observations of herring outside the coverage area both before, during and after the brooding. Further, my suggestion is that a review of the quality and accuracy of the bout has been made for NVG seals earlier this year, as there is a great deal of effort on this from the fishermen's side as well. Considerable resources have been invested in this, and I think we should use that opportunity when there is so much effort, including from fishermen, to try to see and estimate marine resources in a much better way. It is about the overall economy of society and about the responsibility of society for good governance. Furthermore, in 2015 and 2016, the coverage of broodstock should also be assessed when it relates to the spread to the whole broodstock. I believe it is important that we use independent skills that can help us in such work, and that both fishermen and researchers from the Marine Research Institute participate closely in this work. Such a review of the gython in 2016 must include tests at sea in order to determine the accuracy of the hull-mounted echo load. I think that if we do a work like this and create the necessary trust between scientists and fishes, it will also be much easier to cooperate in the future, when one has somehow managed to estimate a resource in the sea, and there are somewhat common perceptions of how big it is. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the NVG ticking in 2016 and 2017, as I have outlined here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2470	I thank you very much for the interview with the representative Trellevik and fully agree with the representative that there are good people – and if I am allowed to say so – on both sides. There are skilled people in fishing, with extensive experience and competence, but then we also have very competent and competent people in the Marine Research Institute. That is why I have exactly the same intention and hope as the representative Trellevik. This discrepancy must at least be reduced — and, hopefully, eliminated. Only then can we get right on behalf of the industry, which is very important. Reputation is also important in this picture. I have, of course, come to realize that there has been a lot of noise around the research on Norwegian springing herring. I think we're all good at – and I'd like to – a debate on research and the importance of good research to achieve the management of all our important populations, including herring. Let me first say that there is a significant growth potential in the marine industries. And investing in research and development is a fundamental prerequisite for realizing the potential we all see. This is a very high priority of the government, and we have already increased the appropriations for marine research with a total of 110 million. kr in the last two years. In the 2016 state budget, we further increased the appropriations for marine research and research infrastructure, with more than 190 million. kr. One hundred million. These have been set aside for upgrading just research vessels to update their equipment in order to become more accurate in studies, research and measurements. Good equipment and the use of the latest technology are important for marine research and essential for us to continue our good management of our stocks. At the latest in the context of the revised national budget this year, the Government proposed to allocate 20 million. kr for better equipment for our research vessels under the Marine Research Institute. I hope that I will contribute to more precise stocking calculations and more cost effective implementation. The initiative follows up the Master Plan for Marine Research and will provide even more knowledge as a basis for sustainable growth in the marine food industry. With the ambitions we all have, this is absolutely necessary. There is always a desire to improve the knowledge base, precisely to improve the management of our fish stocks. This is why, in dealing with the maritime food industry notification, Stortinget has asked for a resource research escalation plan. I'm glad. I will then come back to this in connection with the 2017 budget. So for stock research, which the interpellant is very concerned about: we have a great need for resource research. Therefore, it is good that gythecatches in Norwegian springing herring were carried out in both 2015 and 2016. These findings may affect herring quotas for a long time in the future. However, researchers have been aware and aware that this rate is only one of several elements that may affect the stock estimate. The cooperation between fishermen and researchers is, as I see it, a strength – a strength that can be used to become even clearer in Norwegian fisheries management. At the same time, we are totally dependent on researchers doing their jobs thoroughly and through the right international processes. It is precisely this thorough and time-consuming work that has led Norway to be a leading nation in fisheries science management. It is the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, the ICES, which advises on the setting of quotas for all of our populations. ICES compares available knowledge both from scientific surveys and from fisheries on the marine environment and the living marine resources. The aim is to be able to provide knowledge-based, unbridled and unpolitical advice on, among other things. the level of taxation of the competent authorities. ICES has organised its work in such a way that it is the team of researchers with participants from different countries that ultimately gives the final advice from ICES. For Norway as a port, it can be said that ICES is simply a bearer in our administration. Research and tokens related to NVG sill are something that all the coastal states of the population contribute to, and we have very long time series for this particular population. The coastal states are Norway, Russia, Iceland, Faeroe Islands and the EU. For stock surveys different acoustic methods are used. It is important that the best possible technology is used, and there is no disagreement that there should be a critical assessment of the uncertainties and limitations of the methods at all times. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. ICES reviews and evaluates the methods used to calculate stocks and sizes at intervals of several years. The objective is to minimise uncertainty and to provide the best possible advice. ICES has held such a method evaluation meeting on NVG ticking this year. In the follow-up to this, the Marine Research Institute will in future further develop observation models, methods and new models. And they're going to start new measurement works. In the autumn of 2016, the Institute of Marine Research will launch marking of NVG herring in order to follow migration and survival in the population. Corresponding labelling has been carried out by mackerel from 2011 and it is expected that this series will be included in the 2017 international stock assessment. The experience from the mackerel marking is very good, and the new NVG seal branding program will give us a new measurement point for the stock size. It is very important to be sensitive to those who are at sea, and to those who live by fishing. They depend on predictability of what is to be harvested from the sea. In order to ensure good dialogue and cooperation between research and industry, the Ministry set up last June a Technical Council for Resource Research, FUR. FUR has representatives from Norway's Fiskarlag, Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team, Pelagisk Association and the Marine Research Institute, and it is now headed by the Chairman of the Norwegian Fisheries Team. The Directorate of Fisheries and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries are only observers in the sample. The aim of the sample is to exchange information on research activities and industry experience. In addition, FUR shall be an area where the fishing industry can promote the uptake and advice on research and monitoring issues and priorities related to the wild marine resources. The FUR is thus the right forum to discuss all aspects of the stock evaluation of NVG ticks, including such technical issues as this discussion is about. In many ways, therefore, the processing of data in the ICES system is the independent review of the quality of information coming from coastal States and is the basis for advice on quota fixing. The development of methodology must be a matter for the research institutions. The interpellant specifically requests that independent experts review the difference in estimate after spawning between researchers and fishermen. I want the best possible research, but putting down an independent sample every time nutrition and HI disagree, I don't think it's the way to go. I am about to appoint a professional counsel for HI. The Technical Council shall, inter alia: provide advice and recommendations on fascination of HI’s programmes, including data collection methodology and stock assessment. We must live with the results we get at all times. The marine research institute is further working on a process to reduce the disagreement between researchers and fishermen on the issues raised by the inter-pellant. The goal is to reduce the distance in view of method and interpretation. I'll end by saying a yes. There is always a risk of estimating the amount of fish in the sea. The researchers' job is to minimise that risk. The so-called NVG management plan, agreed by all coastal states, is designed to take account of this disagreement. It's done before. Historical learning prompts caution, and care is needed to achieve a high return in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2505	Thank you for your reply. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State wants to give priority to marine research and to submit to follow up the decision to raise this issue. That's very good. Research and development are among the key input factors for the development of the whole of marine nutrition, and it is greedily important at present times. In the past, we have discussed marine research here in Stortinget, the latest in the process of reporting on a competitive maritime food industry, and in the setting of it, Innst. 215 S for 2015–2016, we can read under a paragraph entitled ‘Research and market’: ‘In this context, the Committee will emphasise that a good interaction between public efforts and the research of industrial actors is essential for the translation of research results into profitable business development and new jobs.’ So the Storting wants us to have an even tighter and even better interaction between the academy and the administration-based research, but also in the work that fishermen do in research. And just this year, they've spent an incredible amount of resources renting extra vessels and extra capacity just to be on the other side of this research and arrive at other good estimates. Then I thought it was a bit tragic, because I could well imagine that the Council of State had misapplied the results that came this year. I would have appreciated that very much. But I take it that he wants to give priority to the 2017 budget, and I support the fact that it is a good thing. The council also stated that the verdict was important. It is clear that when there is such a gap between what fishermen see and what researchers see – and when he also mentions that ICES was the tree of this – I think that it is urgent to solve this herd. Because if this inconsistency that we experience in this country spreads beyond Norwegian borders, many others may also claim that everything that ICES comes to, perhaps is not the right thing to do – so that there can be disagreement with other countries if we don't press a little harder, and try to postpone the reduction of this inconsistency for too long. I should like to know that in connection with the escalation of this, we were even more precise that we would like to reduce this gap more quickly. Although HI shows good beats and tones and wants to reduce and help here, I think they need a little pressure to get ahead of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2523	I just want to repeat that the interpellant has taken up a very important matter. I have also mentioned several elements that can help improve the knowledge base that is the basis of our decisions, and it should be followed up. The master plan for marine research shall be followed up and no questions shall be asked. I think there's a lot of respect for that. Now there's a big project called CRISP – Centre for Research-Based Innovation in Sustainable Fish Capture and Processing Technology, very long, but it's very important. There's someone trying, among other things. to measure voice sizes with a calibrated sonar, as opposed to the sonars used by the fishers themselves. The CRISP test also means that more time per hour is spent than what has actually been spent on, among other things. «Vendlatokt», through an inspection phase where one walks around the voice and measures several times, as also the fishermen want to do when inspecting, in order to estimate volume and density. I am pleased to note that there has been an idea from the Marine Research Institute here, because the Marine Research Institute is also equally concerned that we should remove this kind of disagreement, so that we can move faster – not necessarily with a fasit, but with the best possible basis for succeeding in the future. For this reason, in order to further strengthen the use of zones in the quantitative measurement of pelagic fish, the Institute of Marine Research has also proposed enhanced cooperation with the fishing industry by carrying out several special studies, such as those carried out in the CRISP, in traditional fisheries, where the voice size is measured by sonar and stimuli being caught and delivered. In addition, I have recorded that the Marine Research Institute would like fishermen to be included in this type of research stick and that researchers are involved in fishing. I think it's a good input from the Marine Research Institute, and I'll follow it up, because I think it can contribute to a more unified view of the sonar estimate of the voice size of NVG seals. So we know – I myself was down and visited the Kongsberg Group – that there will be new methods, new technology, which tomorrow will give us the tools that are needed to become even more accurate in measuring stocks, so that that kind of disagreement will hopefully disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2536	The problem raised by the representative Trellevik in this interview is sometimes a replay between the management environment and the professionals in the fisheries sector, and relatively loudest discussions are then the rule over the exception. Then one must also stress that, from the outside, Norway's fishing nation is essentially praised for good management, and rightly so. In meetings with EU representatives, this is underlined at times very often. The meaning of ICES was the Council of State, so I'm not going to repeat it. But when the understanding and interpretation of volume, as the interpellant refers to, is so dramaticly different, it challenges the understanding and not least the legitimacy of the management environment, and there is no ignition, cf. the discussion on re-example. We should also not underestimate that estimates can be difficult and that conflicts of interest can characterise the conclusions of individuals. But when estimates become so miles different as we see in this example, it's a problem. Often we see an excessive conduct of goods-holding that presupposes the manager, and that the industry can experience wrongs on time. They are very clear in contact with us representatives. With large resources that are now advertised through the sea bet, which are made available, the stock volume should be an important part, and improvements in this area are what we expect. When there is an example of the importance of good population understanding, a notable mackerel and mackerel war, the large volume and the change in migration patterns that led to the abandonment of large volumes to other nations can lead to great frustration for pelagic fishermen – and it can be understood. The day we experience a sharp decline in that occurrence – for swings we know it will be – the level of conflict will rise, with several nations involved. New technologies and improved understanding are tools that should be implemented in the admin environment, which have an important place in this context, and we need to have a system that gives HI and others trust when they come with their recommended quota volume. The signatures have been contacted by the resource environment that is on new technologies that they think will provide greater security in stock assessments, which we should all demand and support the development of. The Council of State gave an example of this in its last article. It slips and shows me that the technique can further develop and will provide the necessary security, or perhaps remove the uncertainty of the day – as far as possible. The Council of State also mentions the FUR selection and the importance of it, and which in many ways will be an ambassador between management and fisheries, which I believe is both appropriate and necessary. Finally, thank you to the interpellant for bringing this important issue to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2551	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this theme, perhaps narrow, but important. The interpellant is in its speech on most aspects of the case – almost in mention of each single session of fish as well – so I would like to limit myself to saying that it is important that we have with us that Norwegian resource management is a success story in general, and that good stock research is an important part of the administration. Trust is the bearing key here, but it is also important that there is room for debate around these things, and that one practices openness. I would essentially like to agree with the first article of the interpellant. I record that the Council of State is well pleased with both its own and the government's efforts in the field. But I also need to say that the stock and resource research plan that the Stortinget has decided on, has great expectations for the Stortinget and the opposition when it comes to the state budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2560	We are at risk of not having the potential in the Norwegian fishing industry because we do not know as much as we could have known about important fish stocks. The Norwegian herring herring herring is such a herd. The recommendations of the researchers may be more cautious than they could have been, if we had known even more about the population. Thus, the fishing industry, both at sea and on land, can miss out on high values, in addition to the values and positive ring-effects of suppliers, coastal communities and the Norwegian economy. This is one of the main reasons why the Left and I have been concerned that the Storting must grant more money for marine research – both for marine research in general and not least for research on our main stocks. From the day I entered Stortinget in autumn 2013, I have worked to get up the appropriations for marine research. In the alternative budgets of the Left from the 2014 budget, we have been ambitious – even far more ambitious than the government in the investment in marine research. We have succeeded in putting in place valuable additions, which were also found in the Storting's treatment of the marine food industry message earlier in the year. A lot remains, but there is a useful step that has been taken when the Storting together has pointed to the need for increased effort. Now we have expectations of the Minister of Fisheries and the Government when it comes to the follow-up to this order. It was the Minister of Fisheries at the inside of his post earlier today. It is in this way that I, as a wholesaler, can and should contribute – not as a broker and intermediary between fisherman and researcher. I think it is positive that the representative of Ove Bernt Trellevik, with this interpellation, is making important issues visible, because it is not good that we have this cognition between parts – I say parts – of the fishing environment and marine research on understanding the stock situation. But it's not my job, and it can't be the Big One's job, to interfere in measurement methods and other research methods. I have great respect for Norwegian marine research and the work being done nationally and internationally. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea has a great deal of recognition for this. And I have great respect for the Norwegian fisherman, both for the fisherman as a businessman and for the job that he or she does through his or her organisations, both the Fishlayer and other organisations. I have had the pleasure of following the fishing industry and marine research on a reasonable level for decades, and I know that both parties act as serious actors in terms of what can be harvested by the sea, from each point of view. Researchers and fishermen are interdependent on the exchange of information, with their respective roles. Not least because of this, I am concerned that the relationship between the parties is constructive and trusting. I think the Minister for Fisheries has a sensible approach to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2573	I would like to thank the Council of State, which says that he will be involved in and assist in the implementation of new models, new methods and new ways of doing things in the future. I think it's important that we do this in a good way in the future. I was at a marine conference in Bergen yesterday, and there was a post for SINTEF. They suggested that marine research, in particular marine research related to marine stocking and resource exploration, should be used both for zones and for a number of other methods, as well as for data from fishing and fishing vessels. Today, there are some great computers in the fishing vessels that go on the sea and collect enormous amounts of information. That we are not able to collect this and use it in a good way is actually a little critical. That should include us, at least when SINTEF points out that this is completely possible. So when it comes to the research we're doing in the ocean, I could also imagine that there was a little bit more cooperation, that one was more co-ordinated, and that the research environment challenges each other a little bit more than they do today. I believe that the Council of State strongly trusts what comes from marine research, but we believe that other research environments also have thoughts about both marine research and resource management research, but also within salmon, lice and such, there is a good research environment that may not have exactly the same view as the Marine Research Institute at all times. I think that this is also an important research environment, to which we should also be able to listen in the future. If the Norwegian fishing industry and Norwegian seafood are to claim and move on in the Norwegian economy, for the benefit of the Norwegian community, it is necessary to obtain better and more scientific documentation, both on fish stocks and on salmon and other areas. One needs to gain better knowledge of this and have a better basis for decisions in the value chain of these industries. It was mentioned from several quarters that Norwegian marine research is highly valued internationally, and it has been shown for a number of years. But that doesn't mean she's going to be among the world's best in this forever. If we don't help her, support her and help her develop, it becomes a status quo, and a hanging up in a method of research that was good in the 1970s, but that now, in the 21st century, is not useful at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2586	Let me first say that I believe all the research wants to be put in critical light, and I also feel that the Marine Research Institute wants to. I'm not going to go into a debate about research that much, but all the research is concerned with some uncertainty – that's the only thing that's certain. You manage from the knowledge you have at the moment, and then we all work to get it even better. That is also why the representative of Farstad can rightly boast that the Left has raised the importance of this through increased appropriations. That's absolutely right. And I'm very happy that the Storting has just said – unanimously – that you want a stepping up in resource research. Then I stand much better rusted when I go into budget negotiations in August, in the budget rounds then. That is a clear and clear claim from the Stortinget. Norway is therefore one of the countries in the world that spends the most resources on this type of research, but neither can we put in any way two lines below all the answers we have today. There are still uncertainties, and that's why we need to keep developing knowledge in the way we do now. I don't know if that's right, but I'm still trying to say that one can actually say that the herring collapse we had in the 1960s was one of the reasons we have such good governance today. One had to do something. And then I've heard from many people in the environment that we're still waiting for a new, strong herring class. The last one was in 2004, as I understand it. That's why I think it's important that we go with caution here. But as I say, there's been an invitation from the Marine Research Institute, and I think the industry is going to take it with an outstretched hand, where you get some extraordinary take-offs with research and ways that fishing and nutrition carry out themselves. I cannot stand here without saying: yesterday I was in Bergen at a large conference that the government has launched: we are going to promote a sea strategy; we are going to promote a bioeconomy strategy; we are going to have a stepping up of resource research. We're talking about billions of dollars, so we're using 32 to 33 billion. research, and it doesn't stop there. We need even more if we're all going to take out the ambitions and the potential that we're actually agreeing on, that's out in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2616	Initially, of course, I would like to stress that most minority groups and people are doing everything they can to get a job, and that Nav is doing a hard-working and thorough job to help them get into the workplace. There's no doubt about it. But there are also some obstacles to success that we need to discuss. In today’s interpellation, I rely partly on my own experience and partly on media postings and conversations with employees working on this in Nav – and other agencies. An example is my own experience, which surprised me, when I visited an employment training course a few years ago. We were men who were in the course – and this was a work training course for women – and we later wondered why they didn't look at us, why they sat and looked down. Then it was found that they were only allowed to look at men in close family, such as husband, grandfather, child, and we, also those who arranged the course, were then indebted to answer. Where do you really start, if you think you're going to get out of work without even being able to look at men? It is probably an example that applies to quite a few, but at the same time the evening post had an article series and interviews with Nav leaders, which appeared to be anonymous. Reference was made: ‘Nav managers are critical that minority women will not take jobs or practice places in canteens where pigs are served, shops where beer or nursing homes are sold where they must take care of men.’ This was read in the Evening Post on February 5, 2014. One of the Nav leaders, who then appears to be anonymous, says that he is frustrated that he has arranged an action course for ten to twelve years for women who actually have a kind of obstacle to getting out of work that makes it perhaps where you should start – but you don't get to do anything with those obstacles. He who was then the service director of Nav, Bjørn Gudbjørgsrud, said in the interview that he confirmed these problems. It was also confirmed by the Nav offices in Buskerud and Eastfold, where it was less extensive, of course, than in Oslo, and the Nav director said that many people would have difficulty accepting that they would not take a job in a canteen because there are pigs serving there. Most will not see it as a lasting reason, said Gudbjørgsrud to the Evening Post. He went on to say: ‘The requirements to adapt to work life are clear, but perhaps we do not practice them strictly enough.’ These opinions confirm that this is a waters where there is no complete clarity about practice. In recent times – in the last months and at the latest yesterday – I have had conversations with Nav staff and people who work on this close to their daily lives, confirming that the situation is still such that there is no clear practice in which you feel you have strong enough points to build on when you meet these situations. I don't want to discuss individual matters at all, and I don't have any statistics on how many of these are involved, etc., at least it's not possible for me to get them. That is why I have to use some examples of what Nav employees say to me that they are struggling with today. It's e.g. that there is no room for action and jobs in shops, because there is no alcohol available or only meat that is not halached. Similarly, the provision of accommodation in restaurants, cafes, hotels, etc. applies. For some it also applies that they cannot affect the opposite sex. It is practised primarily for women. Women cannot touch men, no handshake, and in some cases there is also a problem that women cannot affect men when working in care and care, or that they have such extensive and heavy clothing. One thing is the few people who have lucky clothes, which make it difficult to communicate, but also the fact that they have heavy and extensive clothing – which is mandatory, no matter what kind of movement and activity is needed at work – that makes it difficult to work within, for example, the workplace. cleaning, kindergartens, kitchen, where there are hygiene requirements, work uniforms, etc. Last night I heard about a case where you had problems with a person who had been transferred to a workplace, but who demanded to get off Friday to join the mosque prayer – which was difficult to practice at that workplace – and would not share the wardrobe, because you could not change with other men, etc. I'm not looking to go into detail, but I'm looking to find out that you're facing issues here that we don't have enough time to thank how we're going to handle. There are very many professions that are becoming obsolete. I have mentioned shops, restaurants, hotels, care and the like, such as kindergartens, cleaning, etc. And in the next round, when you're going to compete with an employer for a job, it's clear it can be hard to compete in the same way with other jobseekers if you have these kinds of standards as a basis for entering the labour market. I get the impression that when Nav meets this – and as the Nav employees I've talked to tell – there's a lot of uncertainty, confusion, even today about how they're going to handle it. Some try to look at it, see if you can later communicate actions or jobs that are easier for users to go into, where there are fewer of these issues. Some allow them to continue on course to see if a maturation process can take place through work training courses and different measures that can go on for a long time. Others may not give priority to the matter, leave it passive and give priority to those who are more likely to enter the labour market, and then there is a danger that they may switch to passive social benefits, where it is also difficult to get to the obligation of activity. It is certainly also the case, perhaps more and more, that someone is going hard on hard and demands that they change, should abandon these norms – these religious, fundamentalist norms, I would say – and cut the social benefits if they don't want to accept measures, which, as I understand it, are the full legal basis for doing. It is understandable that there is a certain discretion on a case-by-case basis, of course, and on the basis of the individual's assumptions, but if the discretion becomes so open that it becomes very different from case handler to case handler, from department to department and from office to office how to handle it, it may become too open, and there may be a misunderstanding in these fundamentalist environments that it is possible to avoid being communicated to jobs and actions, with such a justification, and yet continue to receive benefits. Then I'm sure that a lot of people do a great service to bear, and especially vulnerable women, who will therefore be subjected to even more pressure if these environments, these groups, who will follow these rules, experience that it is possible to practice them, and then the phenomenon could break. So I think it's important that we talk clearly and clearly about this, and in particular it's important that those in leadership positions at all levels give clear signals and act unambiguously on these issues. It's important to note the statistics of the SSB that came on May 9th this year, which says that for women from countries where there are elements of fundamentalist Islamism, which I'm talking about here, and where those directions have footholds, employment is also particularly low. Those who come from such countries, like Somali women, show the SSB statistics of 9 May that have 22 pst. employment. Those who come from Pakistan probably have 30 p.m., and for women from Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea it is also about 30 p.m. 30 pst. There is a very great difference between women from these countries and women from countries that do not have fundamentalist, Islamic directions. There are two to three times as high employment among women from Sri Lanka and from India. Those differences probably have many reasons, but one of them could be the Islamic fundamentalism, which strikes into some environments, which I've been talking about. I know that the Council of State has a solid background from Oslo policy, working with the policy of the City Council and the City Council, and I look forward to hearing about how the Council of State assesses, whether there is a need to develop this work in a clearer way within Nav, and whether there are other things she wants to address in terms of how we are going to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2652	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for a very important question. The issue concerns key values that can be put to the test in a democratic and diverse society, and I believe, like the inter-pellant, that it is important to have an awareness of such issues. Most of those belonging to a minority group, such as other jobseekers, will apply to professions which correspond to their competences and interests and to jobs where they can carry out their full tasks. Those who, for religious reasons or for reasons of conscience, do not want to carry out specific tasks can often avoid them by applying for other jobs or finding flexible solutions at the workplace where they are. Usually this is something that finds its solutions, and so it should be. Any challenge does not imply public intervention. However, the starting point of the inter-pellant is different because it requires the involvement of public agencies. An example is when a person receiving social benefits from Nav receives an offer for a job, but chooses to decline because the tasks are contrary to religious beliefs, as the interpellant also had several examples of. In such cases, he/she is not in a position to choose freely and retain the benefit at the same time. Upon receipt of the daily allowance under leave, the person receiving the allowance shall be required to be available for the labour market. This means that he/she must be a true job seeker, cf. Paragraphs 4 to 5 of the Social Security Act and the willingness to take any work paid according to tariffs or customs anywhere in Norway, whether full-time or part-time. The right to a daily allowance may lapse for a limited period of time if the jobseeker refuses to receive a job offer for no reasonable reason. The second paragraph of Section 4-5 opens up the possibility of being a true jobseeker even if you are only seeking part-time work or work in a limited geographical area, or if your age or social disadvantages related to health, care for young children or caregiving in a close family warrant it. The Law on Social Security does not provide for the possibility of restricting the availability on the basis of life views or religious beliefs. I have therefore asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to assess the issues of the interpellant. The Directorate explains that they are familiar with the issues raised – we have all also read about them in the media and heard it differently – but the Directorate feels that both the legislation and the Nav's own guidance and training platform are ready in this area. Religiously contingent professional preferences shall not, as a starting point, be regarded as sufficient grounds for opposing certain tasks, but all such cases depend on concrete assessments. The Directorate stresses the importance of spending time providing good information on what is required in Norwegian working life, focusing on opportunities and what individuals can do, and being informed about what might be the consequences of opposing specific types of tasks. Often it would be that if a jobseeker were to have counter-representatives against certain tasks, there would in reality be many occupations to which he or she might be entitled. For those receiving social assistance, the possibility of participating in the labour market is also central. Economic social assistance is a subsidiary benefit which means that individuals should make full use of all real opportunities to support themselves by, for example: work before entitlement to the benefit is obtained. The Directorate-General for Labour and Welfare’s circular, with comments on the law, states that the requirement to obtain work has to be assessed in a concrete way, taking into account the overall situation of the recipient, but the starting point is that the applicant cannot choose to take only specific types of work, but must take the work that exists and for which he is qualified. However, there may be circumstances, such as: related to children or to their own health, which means that municipalities have to assess the specific requirements to be imposed on a case-by-case basis. At the same time, it is quite clear that the government has a focus on transition to work and will facilitate greater conditions for local authorities to lay down conditions for social assistance. I do not think, on the basis of the inter-pellant's questions, that there is a need to develop clearer guidelines in this area now. At the same time, I believe that we need more knowledge and perhaps also reflection on the place of freedom of conscience in the Norwegian working life. In March 2015, the Government reduced a sample to assess and assess matters relating to the freedom of conscience of workers in the performance of their duties. The committee of conscience shall deliver its investigation during the autumn of 2016. The need to develop clearer guidelines will, if appropriate, be assessed in the light of this. I initially said that the question of interpellant is in principle important. However, I do not have a basis for calling it a comprehensive problem. In my view, there are other factors that constitute far greater barriers to the participation of minority groups than their associated customs. Many immigrants today lack the skills required in Norwegian working life or lack the recognition of education from their home country. More masters Norwegian bad. Many of those who are poor in Norway have also lived here for many years. Some people have difficulty getting to work with employers because of weak networks and lack of references. We also know from several studies that discrimination can occur. The Government has recently submitted an integration message containing a number of measures to facilitate access to work or education for migrants with a refugee background. A selection of experts has also been set up to look at the long-term consequences of high levels of immigration, including: consider how this can affect cohesion and what can contribute to reducing the risk of polarisation and conflict and to strengthening the Community's sense in society. The government is busy and will discourage the development of ‘parallel communities’, as we have seen in many countries around us. The focus on work is underlined in the new Message. St. 33 for 2015–2016, NAV for a new period – for work and activity, which was presented earlier this month, and in Prop. 122 S for 2015–2016, Supplementary appropriations and re-priorities in the State budget 2016. Efforts to ensure high employment and low unemployment will be among the main areas of activity of this government in the years to come. We have also had a meeting of the Labour Policy Council in the past, in which all the main organisations are involved, in which we have agreed and signed a Memorandum of Cooperation aimed at speeding up the return of new immigrants to work, and the declaration is a clear commitment from both the employee and employer sides and the authorities in how we will work in the future to integrate more people into Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2678	I fully agree with the Council of State that there are many other major barriers to entering the working life of minority groups, such as the language – mentioned – that prejudices the Norwegian community. Those things we've been discussing a lot, but I feel like what I've brought up today, we've discussed less, and that there's also a need to talk about it. So I mean it's not the opposite of each other. Among these groups that I mentioned, the group of women who come from countries where there are significant elements of fundamentalist Islamism – with these attitudes and rules to try to practice and try to push women, and where there are 20-30 pst. participation in employment in Norway among women – very many are not near Nav or near the labour market, so they are at home. And one of the reasons they're at home and have never tried to get into the labour market and thus never learned the language or had the opportunity that others have can be these standards and the requirements of clothing, not to affect men and not to work where there's alcohol and not hallucinated meat – things I mentioned. You could say, "Does this apply to many, to few?" I have not undertaken to have an estimate of it, but I would say that we have some fundamentalist Islamist directions that are represented also with such absolute attitudes, which are also represented in some mosque environments in Oslo. Some of the directions well call themselves salafists, wahabists, and a large youth organization like Islam Net, where there are also elements of this, collect hundreds of young people on their boards. So we have to be aware that this is not just talking about old thought goods that are dying away, but it's also talking about thought goods that have a certain foothold in some environments, without I'm going to estimate the extent, except that I'm still hearing about it, also from those who work with communication in Nav and in other floors that are affected by this. That's why I think we're doing ourselves a bear service, doing the women and others that are affected, a bear service, if we don't talk about it. I can absolutely see that the Council of State wanted to and began. I don't know the Nav guidelines well enough for me to undertake to say it or that guideline needs to be clarified, but at least from those who are working on it completely in the first line, it's reported that there are different practices, unclear practices, so there's at least need for more communication, more discussion about this within Nav and more build-up of best practice. I think a legitimate Nav is a good slogan, and there's probably a part left in this field to make it really work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2687	This is an interesting discussion, and it's basically not a simple answer to the issues that are raised either. From my point of view, it may not be the laws, the rules or the guidelines that are the problem, because they are there, and they are also quite clear, but it may be the practice of the rules that may not be in line with what we would want isolated. At the same time, however, there may be several reasons why rules are being liberalised, if you can say so too, there may be a lack of competence among employees even on how to interpret the legislation. It's a relationship. Of course, you may be well-meaning and think that this is what you should do, you want to understand those you meet with clients, etc. But it may also be that employees liberally interpret the legislation also because they fear that strict practice can make people lose out, that people you want to keep in the fold are missing out on being too strict. So I think there may be several reasons why employees might not practice the legislation as strictly as we ideally might think that they should, without me necessarily – I kept saying – judge the employees for it. I know from my experience from Oslo that employees out there in the first line are in a constant tension, where, on the one hand, we want to practice a code that we want to practice, and, at the same time, from time to time we also see that the legislation and the realities may not always be the same, and we need to make specific individual assessments. In the context of the integration message, which is now being treated in the United Kingdom, we have also said quite clearly that we should start earlier with social skills in receptions, regardless of whether people should live in Norway or be sent out. One of the reasons is that we just want to clarify what values we use in Norwegian society, what expectations we have of each other, and in that way also help those who come and will live here for a while or live here permanently, to understand how Norwegian society works in terms of the relationship between sex, the relationship between adults and children, and also how Norwegian society and employment work. Integration is painful, it takes time, and we all have to be willing to do what is required. To this specific issue that has been raised by the interpellant, I do not believe, as I said, that the regulation itself is the problem, but it may be the practice. But it can also be about knowledge and competence about these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2696	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. Unfortunately, many immigrants are striving to enter the labour market, even though many are trying very hard and sending many applications. According to Nav, unemployment among first-generation immigrants is three times as high as that of the population. That should worry us all. Here, as a society, we have a big challenge and a job to do. We have to make a change in this statistics. What can our new countrymen do? How can we make use of their skills and organise them so that they have the necessary skills so that they can get a foothold in the workplace? Having a job knows everyone means a lot to us people. Without work, it is easy to lose self-respect, and we also know that the quality of life is getting worse. That's why it's so important that anyone who can and has health can get a job to do. Interpellant says he's worried about the high unemployment rate in some immigrant environments, not least when customs and behavior of a religious nature are the justification and an obstacle to people getting into work, for example. when someone refuses to work because it conflicts with religious beliefs, which we received many examples of. I don't know how big and widespread this problem is. I don't think it's that big. In fact, I believe that we in the Labour and Social Committee had received many enquiries about this. We haven't got that. But I have probably also heard about individual cases, which were referred to here, but the feedback I have received from Nav is that if the unemployed do not accept job offers or participate in activity, it is therefore a matter of obtaining benefits. The rules are very clear in this area. Of course, no one can be forced to work, but the price will be that the benefits will be reduced or lost. That, of course, must be made clear. If you are able to work and have health for it, you have to provide before you receive benefits from the State. Then it is important to create jobs and see opportunities and solutions in meeting employees with religiously motivated behaviour. I know of hospitals where there are Muslim caregivers, where thin plastic gloves are used when serving food, or when handling, among other things. pig meat. It's not a problem, and really it's quite hygienic. It is important to become familiar with the rules and customs that apply in meeting other countries and foreign cultures. It also applies to us, when we are aliens in other countries. It's about respect and cultural understanding. Those who come to our country need to be introduced into what laws and regulations we have, and how our society works. Then I refer to the integration message and to the introduction course and how important it is to get knowledge. I've mentioned it in this room before, but Telenor has been a leading company for a long time when it comes to including immigrants from non-Western countries into the labour market, especially those with higher education. In cooperation with Nav, they have developed the Telenor Integration programme for highly educated immigrants from Asian countries, and the programme is a targeted response to the challenges faced by people from non-Western countries with Norwegian working life. It's about cultural differences, communication and behavior. Participants gain valuable knowledge and real work experience in Telenor or in companies with which Telenor cooperates, and are introduced into informal and formal regulations in Norwegian working life and training and assistance in job search. This is a win-win project, and it is important that participants show what they can, and that society uses available labour to create values. This program has been a huge success, and of those who have applied for this program, three out of four have actually come to work. Working with ordinary work is a success factor for success, and we have a government that is concerned with results and what works. For this reason, the government will also strengthen the system of working practices and training in the ordinary working life, motivate employers to take a greater chance of employing people who are a little insecure by offering different arrangements, increasing the use of wage subsidies and establishing a new follow-up and organisation agreement, which ensures both the employer and the respondent follow-up and contact person in Nav. If we are to succeed in including more in the work, everyone must be involved and contribute. We have to be good at communication. Nav, together with business, must be clear about what is expected of workers in Norway — the rules that apply, in terms of behaviour, corporate culture and clothing, for example. It is important not to look blindly at the problems, but rather to cheer up the businesses and the workplaces that see the opportunities and not the constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2715	I think we should cheer on the women who have broken these sexual barriers, and especially on many of the young girls who are now standing up and are very clear voices to want to break these old gender roles. And we also see that in the education system now, so I think we should also dry up and see that it goes forward. It's no longer since I was a young mother and applied for a job here in Oslo, that whoever owned that shop asked, "Do you get this from your husband, then, Mrs. Andersen? So we have to think it takes some time. The interpellant said that these were very fundamentalist religious environments – and they probably exist: but this is more about traditions, that being a decent woman is about staying at home and looking after the kids. To say it like this: within my life it has been like this. One has to break it, and it's pretty heavy for the girls and the women who have to do it, because they're told that they're doing something wrong with their families and their children, and then we have to help them, we have to cheer them up. Then we have to make some arenas where it's safe for them to be. The Norwegian Women's Sanity Association is doing a great job, because they can get some of these women's arenas where you can come and take the first steps. The job balance is another good scheme, which I encourage the Council of State to stand on for hundreds to get more of, and also use the qualification program a lot more. So the interpellant mentioned some of these problems that may arise related to some workplaces. I've heard that, too. I was at a big conference at Hamar, which was imam in the congregation. He said what he said when there was someone in his congregation who said they could not work at the store, for example, because there was alcohol sold there. He said, "I'll answer that's where the income comes from – that's among other things." The alcohol that pays your salary and what you live on, and the help you get in Norway, so if you can't take that job, you can't take that money, because they come from the same place. He said it always works. In the Stange municipality, they have developed job suits for, for example: Somali women who are able to do their job. I heard a representative from the Right here talking about other types of adjustments. I have to admit that the ability to take care of food with plastic gloves is okay, but care for old people who may need someone to take on you, cannot be worn with plastic gloves. But it might take some time to break some of these tabs. We have to do that, but I very much agree with what the Council says that an individual treatment also needs to be done. Then it's, I think, sometimes about those who work either in the introduction program – because at least the new ones who come now, through – or in Nav, who are going to help those who have been here for a while, also have to have time to work on this, because it's very often mood changes that have to happen, not least that they have to face those who live in social traditions where a really have to break barriers and fight to get them to. Then it is impossible to jump over the fact that the government has cut off Norwegian training for those who are now sitting waiting for reception. There is no good integration action. The fact that they intend to have training in the way of people and in the way and use in Norway is good, but it also eats from Norwegian training, so it should be added. So I'd like to mention this with institutional competence. For some of the women who have at least been linked to some projects before, it has been possible to get the founding authority, to start by sea, to break barriers, especially where one is being discriminated against, which was also within the Council of State. There's also an element here that someone is being discriminated against, and it's going to be twice as much for these women if they don't really get to go home to work, and when they try, they don't get a job either. I think this is going to go well, because I look at the younger generations that they're at full speed into both the working life, in the academy and everywhere, and we have to cheer on them. Then we have to have some patient, long-term measures for the women who have to break these traditions, because they need support when they're going to make such a difficult transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2732	I would like to thank both the representative Stein Mathisen and the representative Karin Andersen, who had some important points, and I thank you again for the contributions from the Council of State. I fully agree with Andersen's representative that we should cheer up those girls. One of the things that gave me the impulse to pick this up and do something about it was that I saw a youth who worked in a store and was scolded out of the "moral police" because he worked there. When we're going to support them, we also have to be able to talk about the problem. Because not everyone has it as simple, and they need the big community and everyone who's in charge there to give clear signals. It's very important, as Andersen's representative was about, to cooperate with the mosques and the imams, to raise these questions with them and give them clear signals from those who want to participate in it. But it's not all the places it's as simple, and then we have to take the discussion. What the representative Stein Mathisen said about the lack of examples for the Labour and Social Committee – yes, I understand that. I get the impression that the Nav employees I'm talking to, and others kind of have a self-justice – you shouldn't talk too much about this. You're afraid to humiliate under prejudices. It's partly like that, and in part, the system has some of those leads. I think it's important that in order to prevent prejudice in an honest and credible way, we also need to talk about that kind of problem. That loss, I think, has been made in Sweden, in the cities of the drug addicts there, that there has been no «allow» to take such debates. We have to be able to do that. That's why I think the Council of State was about building up knowledge and competence completely in the first line of the Nav around this and discussing experiences, trying to create a more consistent practice, in which one becomes safer, would be very sensible, especially in those areas where one has the greatest challenges – in which I am absolutely sure. I also find it interesting that the Council of State said that when it came to the People's Security Act, there were no direct leads in this regard, and that she had asked the Directorate or who it was, to look at that part. It's fine, and I hope that initiatives will also be taken in the future to work more actively and clearly with this, to put words into the Nav system, and that others can also do a job in the cooperation we have with mosque environments and others. This is a social debate that we can't let die. As I experience it, it's not given that it ends there that these attitudes, the rules, the fundamentalist dogmas, are driven back. As I said, we have now large youth organisations where these have significant upswings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2747	There is no doubt that competence and awareness about this are important. According to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, systematic competence building and cross-cultural guidance have been pursued in the first line in recent years. There is a deepening module, guidance for users with a migrant background, which also addresses issues related to culturally conditional preferences for action and work. Nav will help jobseekers to find the necessary labour and employers and have a heavy responsibility to combat ethnic discrimination. The ETF has developed guidelines to combat ethnic discrimination in the provision of employment services in Nav. A number of AMO courses adapted to immigrants with a need for increased competence also address the issues of interpellation and also highlight good information on the possibilities and limitations of each jobseeker and the requirements of Norwegian working life and Nav. I also believe, as the representative, Mr Andersen, that it is essential that we, as the majority of the population, support and honour all the forces that we now see coming, the young voices that oppose anti-liberal attitudes and conservative lifestyles. We see that many have worn out, while the majority society has been embarrassingly silenced when they have fought their rather tough and brutal struggles. Now we see that it's growing up a generation that it's important that we cheer up. In Norway, all workers – in whole or in part – should be able to work. I am concerned that our welfare systems and our legislation should support it. We cannot accept that one chooses to isolate oneself for religious reasons. It is our job to contribute to the greatest possible participation in all or part of the activity or job. So I think this discussion and the debate have been good. I'm glad the interpellant has taken this up. And then I think this is definitely going to go well, but it's not going to go well by itself, we all have to stand up for the values we think are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2760	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2776	New technological advances are being developed every day. We let ourselves be fascinated by lawn mowers that cut the lawn by themselves, vacuum cleaners that vacuum the car, our car that blends down the main light itself, and our smartphone that almost from day to day offers new solutions that can make our everyday life easier. This is exciting. Now it's pretty simple things we're enjoying, which are already yesterday's technology and only small things in relation to the really big technological advances we're facing. Within, inter alia: The transport sector is constantly being presented for new solutions, one of which surpasses the other – yes, it is almost to be breathless – be it in public transport, passenger transport, car industry, environmental technologies, infrastructure development and not least in safety. New national transport plan for the period 2018–2029 is now working intensively on many fronts. The batches work locally and at country level. A lot of work is done in Stortinget, and the government works every day with its proposal for a new plan. With this in mind, it is very important for us to be up-to-date on what technological developments we are actually facing in the transport sector. There's only one thing we know for sure, and that's that tomorrow won't be like today. The past will be a future. There are constant debates here in the Biggest and in public forums about how we should facilitate future development, and whether we should regulate and control it, or let technology development come about by itself. Actually, we're not going to see too many years back before the cell phone, as we know it today, was completely different. As I said, progress is very fast. The new national transport plan will be reviewed over a 12-year period, and the modes of transport we know today are unlikely to be exactly the same in just a few years. We must take this into account in the work on this plan, but also in our daily political work. Sports have gone to be strict, speak loudest and be the most regulatory in the transport sector. The driving lists shall continue to be subject to new charges, industries in collective, maritime and other actors’ requirements, regulations and cost-effective rules, despite the fact that all experience shows that the market regulates this in an excellent way itself. We make arrangements, and the market follows loyally. I will allow myself to dedicate two words to the discussions around the E18 through Asker, Bærum and Oslo. In these days, it is negotiated between the parties on how it will become for the future. There's to be discussed whether the road is too large, whether car traffic has to go down and whether bomb fares have to go up, and it's really just amazing, because there hasn't been so much talk about the solutions of the future. With the technology development we look at every field every day, and especially in the transport sector, we can certainly say that we need to build roads for cars in the future as well. People are going to keep driving, we're going to need roads, and it's going to increase. The vehicles we are used to today will not be the same tomorrow, and it is regrettable that the parties who oppose the development of roads in Norway do not take this development into account. For example, the trains of the future are likely not to go on their own tracks, but to go on their way. It also reminds me a lot of the advertising that many here in the Chamber have probably heard about – the advertising about being over Skagerrak, where one has slowed down the speed of self-flying cars. We can laugh at it now, but why not? Today’s evening post says the following about driverless cars: ‘Daimler-chef Dieter Zetsche said last year that ‘there was a rumor that Mercedes or Daimler is planning to build smart phones, so Apple would not be sleepless at night; and the same applies to me’.’ In addition, it says: «Portuguese group manager Oliver Blume said a few months ago that «an iPhone belongs in his pocket, not on the road».» Then we see that innovation is very difficult in large and successful companies. It is necessary to balance the desire for risky innovation while at the same time defending the existing business model under pressure. Despite this desire for innovation, owners, employees and related parties expect economic stability and predictable business and operations. But innovation is unpredictable, and the bet must be long-term and top-down, from an already overburdened management. It requires new organisational principles, new leadership models and new talents. In the short term, it seems more responsible to postpone the changes, manage new risks and achieve their short-term objectives and the company’s short-term objectives. Therefore, too many established leaders argue over them as our friends, convincing themselves and their own about safe entry barriers in terms of supply chain, resource scarcity, regulation or some unique resource they still control. That is exactly what the challenge is: to be able to look ahead, to be able to give way to the existing and to be open to new solutions. The following is also stated in the Evening Post today: "Some people say that it is no longer the big fish that eat the little ones, but the fast ones that eat the slow ones. It's still the big ones that are going to set the tone and the pace of future business, but there's going to be some new mega-fishes. They're growing big now. We don't have time to let go of any unique and fast competitors." Everybody remembers Nokia. In the evening post today, it also says: ‘Nokia had the best mobile phone in the world; therefore, it did not rush with smartphones.’ And then you have to ask yourself: is your service, your product, your car or your newly developed product today just as irreplaceable in a week, in a month, in a year? It is precisely this development that it is important now to take part in. I look forward to hearing the Council of State's response to some of these challenges. I hope that with this debate we will move forward. It's urgent, precisely because the technology that we now have – at 4 p.m. – is already moving forward at the same time tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2818	Thank you to the representative Michaelsen for the invitation to debate an important topic. Yes, in fact, this is in many ways becoming the forerunner of an important debate that we are also going to have on the national transport plan. Let's hope that there are more than the Advance Party and the Right who are involved in this debate – when I now look beyond the Great Hall. The future is unknown about the technological solutions we can get. The more important it is that we are prepared for the possibilities that arise. There are both long and short lines in this debate. I'm going to talk more about the long lines, because that's what actually shapes our future. At the same time, it's important that we don't always have an approach where we sit and wait for the next technology. We also have to do a lot of work that improves people's travel lives today, because that's what it's all about, after all. The transport debate is about creating mobility, but it is also about reducing emissions, reducing travel time and reducing the burden on the local environment. We're already doing a lot to modernise the transport sector. Not least, there is a strong increase in maintenance, which means that the downturn on both road and rail is greatly reduced during today's government and today's majority. We have made many improvements in the organisation of the transport sector. We've moved port responsibility into the Ministry of Transport, we've set up a road company, we're doing reforms in the railway sector, we've introduced a new los law, we're doing things with the establishment of an infrastructure fund and so on. Improvements have been made in all sectors of the Ministry of Transport. In addition, we have managed to sort out cooperation in establishing better data coverage along the lines. It is also part of the modernisation that creates effect immediately – that commuters can be at work when they sit on the train, simply because they get data coverage. We improve and modernise the signalling systems through ERTMS. We ensure that several vehicles can run on environmentally friendly fuels or run on electricity. And we've strengthened Enova to build more charging points, and to get more of the technology for the future vehicle in place. At the same time, when we're really going to think about how we're going to plan our transportation systems for the next generation, we have to think about more than the things I said now. We have to think about the paradigm shifts that sometimes happen, which makes transporters wrong because tomorrow's world isn't the way it was yesterday, just a little bit newer. People just get other preferences because technology vehicles and lifestyle make it possible. When I travel around and talk about this at conferences, and fortunately there are many outside this hall that are busy with this, I have a foil that shows 5th Avenue in New York in 1900 and in 1913. The image from 1900 shows a street full of pedestrians, full of horses and one car. Thirteen years later, that's an NTP period later, there's a lot of pedestrians, one horse and a lot of cars. In 12 years – and that’s what we’re talking about for the national transport plan – the transport infrastructure had changed dramatically in that city – for the better, I’d think most people would say, not because politicians imposed a charge on horses in the city, not because they imposed a rush-time charge or banned horses, but because business and industry offered something much better than what people had. I feel a little bit, when we discuss our transport challenges today, that it's almost like being back in the 20th century, just that the discussion you're conducting is whether to ban the horse, and then you're standing with your back to the car. Today, the solution to all the problems is to ban the car, and then you have your back on the technology. For us, it's important that we face the technology and see the possibilities. I think we'll get a lot further in the next few years if we gather to look at the possibilities that emerge, rather than trying to solve yesterday's problem with yesterday's ban. Therefore, we spend a lot of time working with businesses and with other countries. We recently held a future conference in which the US Minister for Transport, the Finnish Minister for Transport, Elon Musk, who has founded, among other things. Tesla and SpaceX, people from Xerox, people from Norwegian, yes from Norwegian business in general, discussed the possibilities and how Norwegian business can become part of it. What was important then was just to get cooperation in place, so that we can connect to a strong environment elsewhere using Norway's advantage, that we are a small nation that is flexible, that can turn around quickly, that has a short route between authority and business, just to be flexible. That kind of solution we want to use more and work to get in place. Then it is important that we, as politicians, ensure that the regulatory framework does not stop things. It may be that today the authority body demands that the technological solution with which a company works needs a few years before it is legal under Norwegian law. That's why we spend a lot of time talking to business and hearing what they have in mind, just so we can start the process of changing the law. That is why we have already passed an ITS law in Stortinget. That's why we in the department have been working on creating a law that facilitates driving-less cars. For this reason, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has proposed in its National Transport Plan that we should facilitate a test area in Trondheimsfjorden for autonomous ships – all of this in order to be in the forefront. Yesterday I met one of the major companies involved in drone technology in Norway. They say that we're not necessarily leading in all areas, but Norway is exciting because we have a lot of skills, we have flexible authorities, and we're allowed to do things in Norway that you haven't allowed in other countries. This makes Norway an exciting place to develop these products into a market, which in turn enables us to ensure that jobs are created here at home, instead of becoming an importer of the success of others. That's how I want us to keep working. That's why I'm very happy and happy when Avinor is in the forefront of developing remote-controlled towers to the airports – not because we're going to remove jobs, but because we can get an even better opening time at airports across the country by getting the technology into the fingertips, or just right on the eyes of people through digital glasses, which means that you have information far beyond what you can normally see through a window. By developing this in Norway, we can be part of and be the creators of the technology workplaces, which operate this and deliver to other countries. I find it exciting when Avinor and others contribute to the development of self-driving incubators. Today, I met one of the entrepreneurs in Oppland, Gjermundshaug, who is also involved in this work and already has some remote-controlled plant machines. Think if we could get it to some airports in the districts – that in any case, in the daytime in the winter, we could get break cars out because the ambulance plane has to go down, instead of waiting because people have to drive far to get to work? Would we still need employees? Yes, to all intents and purposes. This is going to work, but I don't think anyone misses the driver today. We have certainly received many other types of jobs instead. Similarly, as late as yesterday we met with another company, who develops and wants to deliver trains based on hydrogen operation – not because they want to replace overhead lines everywhere, but because some places, where the traffic is usually at a low level and the distances long, much faster will be able to modernise the railway by getting hydrogen driven trains in place rather than waiting for built-up overhead lines. It's a future that's right around the corner. Then it's important that we contribute to the development of the law, the way we think, and the solutions that you come up with. There's a reason to think that we're just not – to go parallel to the horse pictures – in 1870, where we're already 40 years ahead, but we can also talk about that we're actually in 1905, where the processes have started, and we have to make sure we're not too late. Some of the world's beaches are now changing the picture. Where we were once stunned by Norwegian hydropower and think, we now see that the global industry is producing cheaper renewable energy, which means that more global companies are interested in delivering things that go on power. It's said that renewable electricity from solar cells can be produced in the Middle East for what equals about $10 the barrel. It can be seen that the cost of battery technology is falling sharply. Yes, the same thing happens in the case of hydrogen. It means something for what kind of drive, what kind of engine types, you can have in a vehicle. Radars and sensors are falling in price to a degree that we haven't seen before. The radar that Google has on its Lexus has gone from about $70,000 to the next model that had cost $90 – from $70,000 to $90. And on the telecoms side we see that what we thought was fast with 4G, will be knocked down in the boots when you get 5G in a few years. All of this provides opportunities to connect infrastructure services – buses you can order through an app, which picks you up at the door and delivers you at a large collective hub, which means that in the future people may not want to own a car because the offer is so much better if they have a mobile phone and a subscription to a car rental company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2856	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is obvious that we have a government that has taken on board a forward-looking view of technology development in the transport sector. We in the Progress Party are pleased to continue working towards a new national transport plan, adopted in 2017. We are also very happy to follow technology developments, and how we can best follow this up in the plans. That being said, I would like to comment on one of the medal's backsides with technology development. In a more digital world, we are also very dependent on adapting our legislation in such a way that we are ready to accept changes. We are faced with questions regarding legislation on autonomous vehicles, for example: How does the insurance industry relate to this? And where is the seventh and last responsibility located? Another aspect is cyber-security and hacking challenges against digital systems, which means that we are making ourselves more vulnerable and more vulnerable to addiction and security breaches. It's not just positive. With the balance between new technologies and vulnerability and the balance between data security and privacy, we have a challenge. With the autonomous cars - e.g. if someone just wants to hack in so that the brakes don't work anymore -- what then? We know, for example. that an iPhone 6 can be connected to the flight cockpit. We know that we're now going to buy new fighter planes, F-35, which I'm going to claim are flying computers. How safe is that? Cybertechnology and the National Communications Authority, which are under the Ministry of Transport, the overall responsibility we have for this area, and the need for coordination across ministries, must be lifted. Because that's how this is just going to be gripped more and more about itself. Then it's important that we can have a parallel track. We want technology development. We want new opportunities in the transport sector. We welcome technology, but we also open up to vulnerability. So my question is, are we going to be able to do this parallel track? Can we be on the hook, so that we can also reduce vulnerability? It's very easy to get excited about this development, but, as I said, it's also a backside of this medal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2869	The representative Michaelsen mentions a very important extension of the discussion we started with, namely how we handle the security of this. One is about physical security – that people should feel safe, and that technology should not derail and jeopardize people. It's about security against hacking, for example. that people take control through technology and cause deliberate or unconscious damage to people. It's also about privacy. As a person walks around with mobile phones and perhaps sits in a vehicle that sends and communicates a lot of information to others to improve traffic flow, there is also a risk that someone can monitor by accessing that data. I think there's a lot to gain from that society can get an anonymous overview of which cars are where, just to find out where there is traffic power, in order to be able to route traffic better. But if you know that "Mrs. Nilsen" is sitting right there at all times, it's not as pleasant anymore. That's some of the balance we have to figure out. How do we do it so that people still feel safe that they are not being monitored, and that information is not being abused, while we can use information to give them a better everyday life than they would otherwise have? In the same way, I imagine that when, in a few years, we may have the small, self-driving buses that help you get to the big collective terminals, some people may still want to be able to get help by accident or by threatening passengers – that there might be some kind of video surveillance where you can control for yourself the time you are being monitored, simply because it helps security, and at what time you want to be alone, when you don't feel threatened. The kind of discussion is also very important in this. But it's also another part that makes us politicians have to discuss, because we have e.g. a lot of discussion about taxi regulation now. Uber technology allows people to order taxis in another way, but it is still the case that the cars are driven by a person. If in ten to fifteen years – or as the Americans think, in five years – one has driverless cars that drive you around the local environment, are they taxis? Could it be that there is a rental car company that has offered you this, or could it be a car manufacturer? Now when we look at the three major American car manufacturers, in addition to Tesla, we see that Chrysler has teamed up with Google, with which the first external company Google cooperates on self-driving cars. Both Ford and GM have bought themselves into large carpentry operators, just to be part of a chain that goes across everything. What today is an obvious taxi business, where you have a person driving a taxi, can in the future be a rental car company, which nevertheless performs the same job as a taxi does, simply because the technology makes it possible. It is also challenging for us politicians and makes it very important to take this debate early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2887	The interpellant takes on an important theme. Today, the Labour Party presents a proposal a little in the same street here in Stortinget, where we ask the government to present an offensive strategy on how Norway and Norwegian competence can take a leading position before the development of fully and partially self-propelled vehicles and ships. Technological advances have given us a quick shift in what is possible to automate. Before several areas have been changed, new possibilities for more whole and sub-automation of services and tasks have come a long way. Full use of technology opens up to a large scenario of different autonomous solutions. Sensors and advanced software can also be used for automation in vehicles such as car and boat, tools in the home and in e.g. the health sector. Too many within oil and offshore are automation and remote control well-known technologies. These are valuable competences that need to be passed on to other disciplines. Technology optimism and creative environment all over the country is a well-known trademark of Norway. We are in the early stages of using technology, and large manufacturers refer to Norway as a transit country. It is good and promises good for new ideas for new industries. This could affect the daily transport of each individual as well as the transport of businesses both by land and by sea. The changes in running gear and ships will also have an impact on the need for and organisation of the infrastructure to be developed by society both in the short and long term. I would like to show that, on 29 February of this year, the trade unions wrote in their basic document for the National Transport Plan: ‘The development of vehicle automation is fast and presents a number of challenges that need to be addressed. This applies in particular to legal acts, responsibilities and privacy. Sweden has recently reduced a state investigation into self-governing vehicles. With regard to rapid technological developments, transport modes propose that this should also be done in Norway and extended to include ships.’» The Labour Party believes that a thorough review of the fundamental aspects of this development is necessary, and it will be a right approach to create a wide-ranging group of experts with different professional competences to discuss and make recommendations for the road in this important area. As one of the proposers of the proposal that was submitted today early, I look forward to this work, and I would assume that there is considerable support for this in the Stortinget. I also understand that the Council of State intends to follow this up without delay. Here Norway has the ability and authority to close. Before transport, we have two megatrends. The one is green shift, which has got a little bit of different names, but where we've done and done a lot. Then we have this with digitization in the sector. We in the Labour Party want to have hands on the wheel when it comes to facilitating a driverless driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2905	I will first of all be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a debate on an important topic. Global megatrenants are active within a range of areas, and we see clear impacts of climate change, demographic change, globalisation, digitisation, disruptive innovation and urbanisation both nationally and locally. This is challenging. That challenges policy. The transport sector must be a leader in addressing the negative impacts generated by the sector, not only because the transport sector accounts for a large part of global and local climate change emissions, but also because innovative solutions and use of technologies in the transport sector can contribute to a better and simpler everyday life for people most, increase the competitiveness of industry, while ensuring safety and the environment as well. Autonomous cars that can run fast, tightly and safely without drivers on board are one of many technological solutions that could be an important contribution to the future transport sector. Social benefits in terms of better use of infrastructure and smoother and tighter traffic flows are expected to potentially release 70 pst. of the road surface. Development and innovative solutions come more quickly than we can imagine. Just as mobile phones today have become an industry from the GSM network opened in 91, so can autonomous vehicles and ITS. Without further development of intelligent transport systems in Norway, it is quite unlikely that we will achieve the goals we have seen. But someone is forced to go ahead and make sure that the possibilities are both visible and available. If you've been in traffic today, you've probably used ITS. It can be anything from GPS, automatic hatch parking and anti-terrorism to sign recognition and toll collection, just to name something. Common to all of this is that it simplifies, improves and unites our transport every day. Not least, it's becoming more and more common. When the government recently created the framework for a new law on ITS, it was because there are so many important challenges associated with ITS, such as: linked to privacy, but also to ensure that all operators in the industry have equal access to information for further research and development. The new law is a framework that must be filled with content as input from industry and technological development. There are enormous opportunities for services that both make infrastructure safer and create mobility, but also for solutions that can alert and contribute to environmental and climate challenges. But who will solve these challenges? Is it the car industry, or is it the echo industry? Or is it maybe a business we don't know today? We may often think very traditional, sectoral and delineating of potential development. We have to organize for those who today want to test and experiment, and we have to accept that research also means that sometimes time will have been spent finding out that something was wrong. We have no idea today who is sitting on the solutions for tomorrow's transport sector, and I would like to remind you that Google actually started in a garage. I'm glad that we have a forward-looking state council and a political plurality that supports this type of testing and is open to the establishment of good arenas for the research community, and that will stimulate the Norwegian environment to participate in all the possibilities we see. Our most important task in the future will be to ensure that legislation does not hinder the rapid and desirable modernisation of the transport sector. Then we have to take the height of a transport sector where mobile phones, apps and the digital have become an integral part of the transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2935	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I could have really wanted it to be even more crowded, even more who had participated, for this is the future. That's what's going to affect the whole community no matter what sector we're talking about. But it's now that it takes some time, and I also want to say that there's an age difference in the understanding of seeing the digital future, cyber and what had to come. But I think that in a few years’ time – if I had been sitting on Stortinget – I would have sat in the autonomous car and flew right over Skagerrak down to Sørlanden, even if the speed had fallen to 520 km/h!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2940	I would also like to thank you for the contributions to the debate, although I had also sincerely believed that this would create a full house, at least in view of the participation of all the parties. We obviously have a job to do to create more commitment. But, anyway, let's make the best of it. The government is already running, and I am glad that there are many representatives in the Stortinget who are also thinking in that direction. At the same time, let me say that there is no need for Norway to develop all the solutions itself. That is why I have put emphasis on cooperation both with industry and with other countries. The Swedes have already completed their investigation. They're doing their legal work. I don't think it makes sense that we are going to make an investigation that will copy the Swedes, and then start with Norwegian legal work. That's why we've done the law work. It is my ambition that we should be able to promote it for Stortinget and have a decision taken before the summer of 2017. If we're going to start with an investigation, we know that it's going to be one more year. It is important to remember, because the time perspectives in the world of technology are often slightly different from those in the political world. When I was in San Francisco last fall to discuss, among other things, intelligent transport systems but also met data providers for fibre cables, they talked about their plans in the short and long term. I became very curious, because I thought, "Long term," is that something I can experience when I'm a politician? They thought so, for their ‘long term’ was four months ahead. ‘Short term’ was up to three months. If we were to spend a few years figuring out where we want to go, there are some technology environments that can depreciate Norway in those years. I won't. I think it is important that we listen to the experts. But here too, I think we're going to use some groups that already exist, instead of all the way to creating new ones. There is a body called ITS Norway, which at least I have a lot of contact with and have traveled around the world. They want us to work more closely instead of creating additional page groups. But in sum, that is what all the different actors can do, because even ITS Norway does not know everything. It is here that the exciting thing about the technology environment is that – of course – you have big companies, you can gather a lot of skills. But it may well be the challengers who finally win. No one knew that Tesla would be a large car company, as it is today, just a few years ago. Stimulating the breadth of business, ensuring that we are flexible in lawmaking, meeting and helping even where the state can, in testing technology, be important. That's why I'm going to gather some of the big collectives to see what they think themselves, but also to see what we as a nation can do together to test out technologies. Instead of competing to test one product, we can see how to love more. That's why we want to meet business and entrepreneurs to see how we can use technology when we build roads, and not least when we plan roads. Everything is part of creating a better travel everyday.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2953	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2959	The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Laila Gustavsen, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e2971	A total of 39 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–35, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 36–39, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 36 and 37, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to start a gradual restructuring of the tax system in which the tax burden on labour is reduced and the tax burden on consumption increased.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a single percentage point reduction in the value added tax, financed by an increase in the general VAT rate and increased environmental taxes. The proposal must take account of the fact that the lower income groups are hit hardest by a consumption tax and propose measures to compensate for this within a province-neutral framework.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3001	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38 and 39, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in its 2017 draft government budget to propose a more redistributive distribution policy, as well as strong instruments to distort consumption, production and resource use in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government of the draft State Budget for 2017 to set out models for an environmentally-differentiated seat tax, inter alia, inspired by the German model.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3024	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-8, 11, 18, 21, 27, 29 and 34, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an out-of-court land-interest tax on mining and aquaculture.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size refers to the alternative state budget of the Socialist Left Party and asks the government to come back to the Stortinget with a concrete proposal for a more progressive tax system that benefits in particular the first four deciles in the distribution of income, in line with the UN’s sustainability objective.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to ensure the symmetry between the top marginal tax on personal income and the total tax on share income without compromising the progressiveness of the tax system.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for phase-out of the shielding deduction.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the taxation of rental income from the first krona rather than the fifth housing unit.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government asks the government to determine whether insurance-based savings schemes should be taxed as share income.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, in the context of the 2017 State Budget, a deduction for the costs of moving across counties. Furthermore, the proposal shall consider the deduction for daily work journeys, the deduction for visits to the home of commuters, the BSU scheme, the tax class 2 and the parental deduction.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to introduce transparency requirements for tax information in the shareholder register.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a guarantee of transparency for companies operating in Norway in conjunction with tax authorities in Norway and other countries in which they operate.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the interest-reduction rule to external interest in addition to interest to related actors. The interest-reduction restriction is set to 45 pst. by EBIT. ‘... Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make rapid proposals for the legalisation of the illegal circumvention rule after the end of the hearing.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce an obligation to disclose foreign ownership in the tax return.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for a new inheritance tax with fewer adaptability and better redistribution than the previous inheritance tax model.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3102	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 9, 10, 12–17, 19, 20, 22–26, 28, 30–33 and 35, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a reduction in the special tax exemption in order to neutralise the tax cuts granted to the petroleum sector and to the hydropower sector of 630 million, respectively. $85 million. kronor and that it is further adjusted in line with changes in the rate of corporation tax and tax on dividends.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to withdraw all state-owned corporations and funds out of tax havens such as State pension funds abroad, Norfund, Statoil and Telenor.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up an expert committee to assess whether further restrictions should be made on tax advisors, including lawyers, the duty of professional secrecy in the tax field. The extension shall consider whether the obligation of taxpayers and their advisers to provide control information should be extended to information on corporate structures and the purpose of financial transactions. Consideration shall also be given to imposing disclosure obligations on tax advisors’ tax planning packages.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is not asked to enter into trade agreements with countries which prevent the work against capital flight.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up new tendering rules allowing all public purchasers to opt out of suppliers who are not open about ownership and tax havens.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for extended country-by-country reporting in all industries.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a proposal to strengthen the Ecocrim and the Tax Act in their efforts to combat international tax evasion and profit movements.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to enable the Financial Supervisory Authority to monitor and defeat banks and financial institutions operating in Norway that use, offer and facilitate the use of tax havens for tax avoidance.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a publisher in order to have the Tax Debit collect outstanding taxes from other units of the same group on dissolution.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the disclosure of information obligations on the ownership of derivatives’.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for out of bounds to ensure the tax base for dividends in complex corporate structures.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the imposition of withholding taxes on interest, royalty and rent payments.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to rent bareboats from ships and to rig out of the shipping tax system.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for deductions of royalties to be assessed by the government. Such a system should be based on assumed market prices in order to prevent misleading internal pricing.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to come back with a review of alternatives to arm’s length in the case of internal pricing where real market prices cannot be easily observed in open markets.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with a review of the removal rules with a view to immediate settlement on removal from Norway, given what is possible within the EEA Agreement’s obligations. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an untaxed tax on digital sales of intangible services in Norway from other countries, where the company operates from a low tax country.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is actively asked to follow up, support and lie in front of the implementation of the EU Commission’s work on a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base in the EEA area.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and come back to the Storting with proposals for a turnover-based minimum tax for multinational companies with high turnover and sales volume in Norway, but with an unnaturally low tax base. The maximum amount of the minimum turnover tax and ordinary company tax will be applicable on a case-by-case basis.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a progressive and effective wealth tax. The following elements are requested: settlement of valuation discounts in favour of specific deductions, for example for primary and recreational dwellings. Progressive rate. 33 reads: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a new tax on property. This will examine, among other things: the following alternatives: Profit tax on the sale of the primary dwelling and the accompanying deduction on the sale with loss. National property tax at the top of municipal government according to the property tax model. Gradual changes or decreases in the interest deduction. Taxes on the rental of owner-occupied dwellings. A phase-in plan for the total taxation of property to balance the absence of taxes on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings when the interest deduction is retained.» Proposal No. 35 reads: ‘The government asks to come back with a proposal to reduce VAT by 10 pst. be reduced to 8 pst.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3308	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3391	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3400	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3403	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3410	During the debate, Mr Bekkevold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 8 March 2002 4 The first and second sentences of Section 4 of the third paragraph are replaced by the following: In the case of temporary absences from Norway which are not more than three months old, children of compulsory school age are still considered to be residents. [[child labour law]] In the case of temporary absences from Norway not exceeding six months old, children under school age are still considered to be residents. The current second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 4 becomes the third sentence.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3456	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 86 votes were cast in favour and 4 votes against. The voting boards also showed that there were 84 votes in favour and 3 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.27.02]] The Socialist Left and the Greens had announced that they would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3473	It turns out that someone has not got their voice registered, and that someone has voted incorrectly. The Committee shall then be consulted again on the position of I and II. Thus, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the suspension, while the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3486	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3499	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3506	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3-5, by Sonja Mandt, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 6-11, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 13-21, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party The President noted that proposal No. 12, from the left, was not promoted. The President also draws attention to the fact that the proposals of the Central Party were submitted after the regulatory deadline, but the President has reason to believe that the Stortinget still wants to take the proposals up to voting, as some of the proposals appear to have a majority. The President therefore proposes that the proposals should nevertheless be addressed to the vote. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to allow more private commercial operators to recruit foster homes.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3543	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the processing/investigation services, foster homes and follow-up services are mainly provided by municipal and Bufetat employees who have authority and not by private commercial operators.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3561	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for systematic and improved cooperation between the Child Welfare Service and the Municipal Health Service/specialist service in order to ensure better prevention, follow-up and treatment of mental health problems and disorders in children and young people in child protection, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate way to inform about measures taken.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3579	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 21, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children and young people placed in foster homes/institutions receive, as early as possible, a health evaluation/consultation to ensure the monitoring, prevention and early follow-up of any emotional or behavioural problems and mental difficulties or suffering.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the extension of foster home care after the age of 18 and to ensure that more people receive a good offer of aftercare until the age of 23.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3602	Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 18, from the Central Party, the following words were changed: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposing a law that no care takeover should be adopted without the assessment of the child’s own family or close networks and that provision should be made for this to be made clear in the case-law or by other means that it has been assessed before the adoption of the decision.’; There is a vote on the amended proposal No. 18 and proposal No. Nineteen, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that, in its supervision of the Child Welfare Service, the county also specifically examines whether family or close networks have been assessed in all care takeovers.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against the proposals. – That means that everyone else is expected to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3625	Proposal No. 20, from the Central Party, was changed during the debate to read: ‘The government is asking that the sibling, as a general rule, be not split by taking care of the sibling and that measures be taken to better facilitate foster families accepting the sibling.’ There is a vote on the amended proposal No. 20 and proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, in the event of a national monitoring system being introduced, it is ensured that each child is individually and professionally assessed.’ The President has reason to believe that the proposals will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3646	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Eight, nine and eleven from the left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that proposals for a specific place of residence for the child are presented to the county before the request for care is put into effect.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government, as part of its work to prevent accidental movements for the child, is asked to consider the treatment of all movements and reversals in the county.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure that an instance of child protection can, as part of the supervisory work, oversee the child protection judgement of the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3672	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments empowering the county to penalise municipalities that do not carry out statutory follow-up to foster children and foster families.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3690	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the law so that young people with child protection measures are entitled to action up to the age of 25 and to ensure a follow-up of those who refuse to comply with the child protection law.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3708	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the financial framework conditions for foster families through a stepping-up plan, the first step being taken in the 2017 government budget by increasing the contribution to municipalities and a similar recommendation on increasing the KS rates for parental employment.’ The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3727	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the eligibility of biological parents in taking care of them, to assess solutions that ensure better stability and tranquility for children, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner during 2016.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests review of the rights of the parents’ partners in order to ensure better stability and predictability.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3750	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a NOU on foster home care for an overall review.’ The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3768	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide guidance on quality assurance, control and limitations of off-takes to private operators’.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3786	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the legislation of foster parents who are disabled or receive redundancy benefits.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3887	During the debate, Mr Grande has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the minimum rates of the production grant for news and topicality media and to make proposals to the Storting.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3916	In Case No: 7–9 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-31.ana.ud2557e3929	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? It hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
