ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e47	The representative Anders B. Werp, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from Mr Freddy de Ruiter on welfare leave for the period from 12 December to 14 December on the leave of the representative of Mr Morten Wold on 12 and 13 December to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Gunvor Eldegard from 12 December to 14 December for the participation of Abu Dhabi as a member of the Executive Committee of the Interparliamentary Union from the representatives of Jørund Rytman, Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal and Marianne Aasen on leave from 13 December to 15 December, from the representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen and Ove Trellevik on leave from 13 December onwards. 15.00 to 15 December and from the representative of Tor André Johnsen on leave on 14 and 15 December – all to attend meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Welfare Permit of the Representative of Øyvind Korsberg from 15 December to 20 December These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Rangdi Krogstad, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the mandate of the representative Gunnar Gundersen on 15 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas and Lavrans Kierulf For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad, Kristian Toning Riise and Hege Jensen For the county of Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e163	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e168	On behalf of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself sail, I will present proposals for a universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e173	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e191	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e200	Today, we are going to consider proposals for amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act. Tobacco use represents one of the major health challenges of our time. Smoking causes reduced health and early death for very many people around the world. Fortunately, here in Norway, smoking is becoming less common, but snuff use has taken a heavy toll, especially among young people. Although snuff after all is less dangerous than smoke, it also causes health damage and should be regulated accordingly. The proposal has three main elements: the introduction of standardised tobacco packages and snuffs, the lifting of the ban on the sale of e-cigarettes and exemptions from the age limit and the prohibition on the sale of tobacco goods. The government is split in this case, and that's not the first time we see it. However, the Labour Party will support the proposal to introduce neutral tobacco packages and snuffs, and the proposal will therefore have a majority in this House. There is reason to believe, based on experience from other countries, that this will have an effect, especially on young people who are currently introduced to cigarette packs and snuffs with fancy and fine design. Neutral packages of health warnings may appear to be less tempting, as indicated by the evaluation we have. The proposal also provides for the lifting of the ban on the sale of e-cigarettes, based on the idea of helping people to quit smoking. The public health institute has carried out a risk assessment and found that the smoking of e cigarettes is not without risk but is much less harmful than tobacco smoking. Internationally, the assessment of e-cigarettes cracks a little, it is understandable that all the time they have been on the market for about a year. 10 years. The Workers' Party will support the sale of e-cigarettes in Norway, but we suggest that they should be subject to the regulations of the Tobacco Damage Act, i.e. are subject to a ban on advertising and display. We have noticed that the department has not entirely decided whether or not to have such regulatory action, but the Workers' Party will strongly recommend it because we want the e-cigarettes to be able to help people with smoking and not smoking. So to the point that is directly alarming: the government is seriously proposing to exempt tobacco goods from the age limit and prohibition, as it is in the current law today. In plain text, this means that chocolate and chewing gum formed as natural cigarettes and presented in colorful packages can be freely displayed in shops and kiosks and sold to young people. I thought at first this was a slip from the department, but it is certainly not. In the Grand Council hearing, the Council of State replied categorically that this was something he wanted, and we just didn't have to believe that it was meant to be a public health measure. The Labour Party has believed that the people's greetings were precisely the meaning of the entire proposition, but it is possible that the Council of State does not see it this way. In view of his own words about the cynical nature of the tobacco industry, it seems more than odd that the Department will open up a advertising channel for the same industry towards the most vulnerable and vulnerable consumers, namely children and young people. It doesn't make it any better that the tobacco industry has expressed a very positive opinion on this great tobacco goods. Then it doesn't make sense to argue that the purpose of the proposal is to remove laws and regulations, because here, in fact, the health status of the growing genus has to be taken into account more. It is also worth mentioning that the EU Tobacco Convention encourages countries to ban the sale of candy designed as tobacco and appealing to minors. The Labour Party also believes that the government should follow that call instead of doing the opposite, namely to facilitate the sale and marketing of tobacco goods and thus severely weaken the impact of the other measures. If the Council of State considers that he is bound by the so-called liquorice pipe agreement allegedly concluded with the Party of Advances, it is appropriate to exempt just such products from the definition of tobacco goods. Fortunately, the Committee has been able to support the proposals of the Council of State on the abolition of the age limit and the prohibition on the production of tobacco goods. The Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on this issue, will vote primarily against the lifting of the age limit in Section 17 and against the exemption from the prohibition in Section 24, but subsidiary vote in favour of the tightening proposal, the committee's recommendation to B. I then address the proposals we are promoting alone and together with the other two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e223	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e228	Today, Norway is taking a new, big step for better public health. With the introduction of a standardised look on tobacco packs, we are back in the front line in fighting tobacco deaths. We have a very worrying increase in tobacco use among young people. 100000 young people smoke, and 150,000 young people snuff. The Institute of Public Health has called it an epidemic. Before it was often turned a way out of smoking, now it has become a way into tobacco addiction. When the snuff boxes look like candy, I believe the tobacco industry has to take responsibility for their success in turning a trend product into a trend among young people. For the appearance of the package, it acts as advertising and has the greatest effect on young people. And that's the target we in the Right are most concerned about, and the bill is supposed to protect better. The main objective is to reduce the proportion of children starting with tobacco. For this reason, the government also proposes to grant exemptions for some product groups that do not appeal to children, such as children. cigars. That is an exception we agree with. Australia has shown that standardised packages work. They introduced this in 2012 and their comprehensive 2016 evaluation report shows that around 25 pst. This measure is due to the growth of smoking in Australia. The Australian authorities say that there was a stronger and better result than they expected after so little time, and that they believe the effect will increase over time. Standardised packages do not prevent those who already smoke or sniff from buying their product. The legislative changes we are adopting today do not restrict freedom of choice to people, and that is not bureaucratic. Tobacco will continue to be available in the same way as today. This measure is aimed at the tobacco industry and is about preventing the recruitment of children and young people. We also agree today that we should allow e-cigarettes in Norway. It shall contribute to the wider choice of health-damaging cigarette smoking and to the smoking of e-cigarettes. E-cigarettes contain nicotine and are therefore not without health risks, but e-cigarettes can have an important function as harm-reduction measures. In the right, we want to closely monitor the development of the introduction of e-cigarettes in Norway. We therefore ask, together with the Left and the Advance Party, the government to follow up on this and evaluate how e-cigarettes affect smoking habits in different parts of the population. Then we are also removing the completely unnecessary legal regulation today, which means that liquorice pipes are only available in locked cupboards together with tobacco at the 18-year limit. But it's not that we want a development where many new tobacco-like candy products find their way into the kiosks and store shelves. That is why the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are behind the Committee's recommendation B, which only exempts candy that is not suitable for being confused with or capable of promoting tobacco. That means there won't be any chocolate cigarettes in the candy shelves. But the liquorice pipes think we're still pretty harmless and are going to get back into the light. Back to children and young people, and back to turning. It has been known for a long time that the Advance Party Group does not want standardised tobacco packages. Today, the left suggests waiting for the introduction of standardised spin boxes. It surprises me very much. I experience that the Left has children and young people's health as one of their biggest heart issues. It is difficult to recognise the Left today when they vote against the important change, which is primarily about protecting future generations from disease and death due to tobacco addiction. There is no need to ask questions about whether snuff is hazardous to health. A report from the Institute of Public Health clearly states that snuff can lead to serious health damage, such as cancer and diabetes 2, and increased mortality after cancer, heart attack and stroke. New knowledge shows that snusing during pregnancy is very harmful to the foetus. Then it's worrying to many of us that there are a lot of young women who start sniffing — we know it's hard to stop when you're addicted. Every year, more than 6,000 Nordics die from smoking-related diseases. Many lose years and decades of their lives because they became nicotine addicts and were unable to stop. Our sincere desire is to protect the emerging generation from becoming dependent on tobacco. We want to see a tobacco-free generation of young people in the future, and we are an important step on the way there with the Storting decision today. Minister of Health Bent Höie is the fifth Minister of Health of the world, as far as I know, who brings a bill to Parliament to adopt this. We're writing history today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e251	Today, we are adopting new bans, bans and regulations as a result of the EU tobacco directive. Such things are, as you know, something the Progress Party is not particularly pleased with – basically. And in fact, the political majority is not content to comply with the EU's demand for 65 pst. of the tobacco and snuff packaging shall be dedicated to standardised health warnings. It is absolutely necessary to standardise everything here, and the prohibition on presentation ensures that the products will remain out of sight, even if not out of mind. Of course, from a health point of view, it is quite right to encourage people not to use tobacco products, but neither the party’s big crowd nor the party’s national meeting believe that the introduction of standardised packaging is the right instrument. For this reason, the Progress Party today alone is opposed to the introduction of standardised packaging for both tobacco and snuff. This will not achieve a majority, and the Progress Party will then vote in favour of the Left's proposal to exclude the snuff products from the amendment. Ibsen wrote that the strongest is the "one standing alone". [[...]] I guess I don't feel that way today, even though I have experienced a lot of low-level support in the corridors of the house – from people in other parties – for our position on no to standardised packaging. I think it is right to mention an element that emerged at the open hearing of the Committee on this matter, namely that the introduction of standardised packages could lead to increased trafficking of illegal piracy products through smuggling and organised crime. It in turn leads to loss of income for the country. Tobacco products are already subject to strict legislation, age checks on sales, prohibitions on presentation and high charges. However, the products are legal and allowed to be sold in the Norwegian market. Then it seems strange – in our opinion – that the manufacturer should not show his trade mark. Of course, we in the Progress Party also take the health risk of tobacco, in the utmost seriousness. In a non-profit world, you would want no one to use tobacco. But it's not like that, and that's also reason to stress the individual's personal freedom of choice and responsibility for his or her health. So we can't prohibit or regulate everything that we don't like. I therefore refer to the programme of the Progress Party, where it is called: ‘However, we will oppose bureaucratic measures aimed at preventing adults from using legal products. The FrP believes that it must be allowed to market all products that can legally be marketed in Norway.’» A report from the State Institute for Drug Research of 2015 also points out that it is uncertain whether standardised snuff packages at all have the intended health impact. Because really, this case is mostly about the snuff boxes, at least in the media. And when the proposal was being consulted, an overwhelming majority – 56 of 78 hearing bodies – were negative to standardised packaging, among others. because it is considered that this is a significant interference with the so-called intellectual property rights. It must also be mentioned that opinions are shared among researchers at the Institute for Public Health on the dangers of snuffing and that several scientific committees have found that smoke is 20 times more harmful than snuff. It is also gratifying to see that the growth in the number of young snuff users has stopped for the longest time, and that three out of four snuffs come from the smoking group. Thus, it must be said that snuffing is also a smoke weaning product. Figures from the Statistical Centre show a decline in the use of snuff among young people from 2013 to 2014, a decrease that continued in 2015. No tobacco products are in themselves health-promoting, but based on the fact that both snuff and e-cigarettes are significantly less hazardous to health than tobacco smoking, this will help to reduce health damage. It is therefore also gratifying that the sale of nicotine-containing e-cigarettes is now permitted in Norway, and that these are exempted from the prohibition on presentation in shops, so that consumers can become acquainted with a new end-of-smoking product. Finally, many have had their greatest fun with the proposals of the Progress Party to lift the ban on the sale of liquorice pipes. Now it becomes legal, because no one with their best will could say that a liquorice pipe can be confused with a real tobacco pipe. And since we don't want small children to have access to more realistic tobacco infections than liquorice peppers in the form of candy, these products won't be allowed. Now I don't think this would be a sales success either – it's probably a long way between the mother and the father who wanted to buy it as a Saturday treat for their hopeful ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e282	The Public Health Institute calculated in 2015 that smoking causes more than 6000 deaths in Norway every year. It's going to be 15 pst. of all deaths in Norway, and is actually a formidable figure. That's also the main cause of the many cases of heart attack and lung disease. Although the proportion of young smokers in the population has fallen, 20 still smoke. young people aged 16 to 24 years. There is also evidence that snuff use is a major concern, particularly among young people. When Stortinget opens today to sell e-cigarettes as a weaning measure for smokers, I would also point out that this can have a different effect, namely, smoking for many young people. Recent research articles from the United States and Canada show that the use of e-cigarettes has increased among, and is a threat to public health for, young people. Although nicotine e-cigarettes are less harmful to health than regular smoke, they contain equally full nicotine and have adverse health effects, both on the users and on those nearby. The Christian People's Party would stress that when the ban on e-cigarettes is lifted, we also believe that when they become legal to sell, tobacco legislation must apply equally fully to them. E-cigarettes must be included in the smoking ban, in the prohibition on presentation and in the advertising ban. Monitoring of use among young people and others in risk groups needs to be closely monitored to identify whether it contributes to new recruitment. I think it's quite special, yes almost unimaginable, that the Right, Left and Advance Party will not evaluate this after two years. The government will follow closely, but evaluating something that can cause more young people actually to start smoking is something we have to take the most seriously. The Christian People's Party would want us to evaluate it, just to help the younger ones first. Smoking is the single most important factor for public health, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes that we need to use strong instruments to achieve a goal of a tobacco-free society. It is currently the case that no one supervises the points of sale as to whether they comply with the age limits for sales and documentation. Young people quickly find out which places are more modest in sales than others. Other countries, such as the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany, have put in place a financial and supervisory system for the sale of tobacco products. In Norway, however, the government does not see that this is necessary. The Christian People's Party also believes that, as several of the other colleagues have said, the snuff producers have a moral responsibility not to design products to increase the attractiveness of snuff use among young people. The Christian People's Party believes that if we are to achieve the goal of – which in fact will be – 25 pst. reducing the premature death of non-infectious diseases by 2025, we need to focus both on preventing young people from starting to smoke and sniffing, and on the most vulnerable groups, so that more people stop smoking. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left and the Center Party, promotes a proposal that different drugs against nicotine dependence should be considered for reimbursement in our prescription regime. Christian People's Party votes for proposal No. 3, against § 7 and subsidiary of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e301	Should the representative, Mr Bollestad, bring up proposal No. Six?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e306	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e311	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e316	That overarching vision in tobacco damage law, in the preliminary paragraph, is that we're going to work for a tobacco-free society. Then we have to make tobacco less available, especially for children and young people. E-cigarettes were launched on the world market in 2006, and in my view, more conditions make it necessary to decide how to regulate e-cigarettes in Norway. There is little knowledge of the health risks of use, particularly long-term effects, but there is evidence to suggest that e-cigarettes have less harmful potential than normal tobacco smoke. The problem with the introduction of e-cigarettes is not that previous smokers can now switch to a less harmful product. The problem is the risk that the product can lead to increased recruitment among young people, and that it can work as a counter-norm, i.e. it can be more acceptable to smoke in society. Data from other countries are just showing such a trend. E-cigarettes are increasing in other countries in the youngest age groups. We also see that double use is common, that one uses both e-cigarettes and regular cigarettes. In the United States, there have been threefold increases in e-cigarette use among children and young people in 2013 and 2014. In the United States, the number is higher in e-cigarette use than usual tobacco and cigarettes among young people. In Denmark, 15 pst. by 15-year-old e-cigarettes, and in Sweden one in five young people uses e-cigarettes in their upper teens. In this case, however, the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Cancer Association and other heavy hearing agencies go in and recommend that we make e-cigarettes legal in Norway because it can be used over from a more harmful smoking practice. So, after an overall assessment and emphasising of the recordings from hearing aids, we have assessed it so that we support the proposal. But we are clear that e-cigarettes should not be exempted from the ban and the ban on advertising, and we think it is a pity that there is no plurality for this today. We also ask for an evaluation after two years where we see what the situation is like, especially for children and young people. We also believe that there should be a ban on flavoring in e-cigarettes. We also propose, together with others, a municipal supervisory system adopted by the Stortinget in the previous period, but which has not been realised. We support the proposal for the introduction of standardised tobacco packages. Even if we are quite different in health policy, the Center Party is sometimes good at having to create pluralities for the Right Public Health Policy. We're doing it because it's very important to do more to avoid getting kids and adolescents snooping. Today, one in four young people between the ages of 16 and 24 uses snuff daily. It's too high a number. In the case of exemptions from the age limit and prohibition against the sale of tobacco germinations, we are voting primarily for the Workers' Party's proposal No. 5 and against the change of § 17 – I believe it is, and not § 7 – and then we vote subsidiaryly for point B in the recommendation in the setting. Smoking causes more than 6,000 deaths per year. We have a lot of people who have coal and other chronic obstructive lung diseases in Norway. What's almost unacceptable in this case when we think so much about tobacco policy is that we can't let these patients with chronic lung disease get drugs against nicotine dependence on blue prescription. It's going to be the next thing that's going to happen in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e340	I think today it is worth withdrawing the lines to the cooperative government and Dagfinn Højbräten, who introduced the smoking law in Norway. Today, State Council Bent Höie is almost as historic as Norway is one of the first countries to introduce neutral tobacco packages. It is important that Norway has tight regulation to avoid and reduce the consequences of tobacco. We have committed ourselves to international goals of reducing non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. When the Right is surprised at the position of the Left today, I can send it back, because the Left has one of the toughest comments in the setting, that we want a smoke-free Norway by 2030. That's the explanation of our position. Our short-term goal is to get the most out of smoking tobacco in the next few years. That's why we want to put in every effort possible, to get people to stop smoking. This includes, inter alia: – as the representative of Bollestad was in and as we have a proposal – to use reimbursement schemes for the use of medicines to stop smoking. We also look at snuff and e-cigarettes as smoke de-weaning agents. Perhaps most important, as research points out, is motivational training, and that is the effort we need to put in in the next few years to reduce the damage. Over time, I am proud that Norway has taken the lead in the fight against tobacco, and the aim is to continue to lead. There is a broad consensus in the Chamber that the fight against tobacco should continue, even if we disagree about the speed ahead, what measures we are going to put in, and when we're going to do it. We also disagree on the knowledge behind it. One of the debates in the media — a little strange that it may be the largest — has been about whether or not the research and knowledge we have about snooping has been ordered. For the Left, that debate has become less and less important because we recognise that, unfortunately, we know too little. That's why we need to put in more research to get more knowledge, both in terms of snuffing, and in terms of e-cigarettes. We recognize that these are a little bit of long lines. It takes some time to get that knowledge. That's why it's even more important that we take action to stop people smoking, because we know the most about that. It is well documented that it represents the greatest damage and the greatest expenditure on health today. It's a little strange that the Right won't recognise that it's also well documented that smoking end drugs work – the 20 million. kr that we can spend on it – when, after all, we spend quite a lot of money rehabilitating people with coal, that we don't then put funds focused on that particular group, to follow up with the quit drugs. So to the new tobacco products, like e-cigarettes. It's one of the challenges, but the left here is trying to be consistent in terms of the snuff, and in terms of the e-cigarettes. It's a challenge to neutralize the spin box by removing the content declaration. We'll use the same argument when we accept the e-cigarette set-up. It at least gives people the opportunity to get information about the product. When we encourage them to use it as a smoke weaning agent, it is important that consumers have the opportunity to obtain information about the product. With regard to the debate on liquorice pipes, I am very pleased that we now found that we limit it to dealing with the liquorice pipes, and that we do not allow other candies to be set up. Of course, it is not a goal to recruit children and young people for tobacco use. The fact that the liquorice pipes have a place is fine for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e355	I suppose the representative should bring up proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e360	I'm addressing the suggestions that are promoted and that we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e365	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, has addressed the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e370	It's good we have a president, if not we wouldn't have had so much to vote on in the hall. The content of this issue has been given greater space in the public health debate than it does in the past. Whether the packages of tobacco products should look the same, whether e-cigarettes should be highlighted as a new product, whether candy should be similar to tobacco products, be able to stand up and should have an age limit, are important issues, but, in relation to other health policy issues we are dealing with, these questions have little relevance to people’s health. The representative Troeen thought this was a new, big and historic step for the public. Maybe it expresses a perspective on the public health debate, maybe it expresses the level of ambition of the government in public health policy, when this is a big step. Had the commitment and willingness to act been equally great for the health stations and school nurses, for physical activity in the school and the fact that children and young people had a more chocolate than fish, then we had come much further. But now we're here, and I'm not going to be a party brake for a political debate, that's what I'm generally a big fan of. So on the other hand, we have a tobacco problem in the Norwegian community that needs to be addressed, and smoke is worse than non-smoking nicotine products when it comes to weak health, mortality and consequences for others. Furthermore, we are responsible for ensuring that children are not subjected to manipulation that aims to draw them into permanent dependence. Already today, tobacco products are hidden away in shops. This supports SV, but we think it is unnecessary in addition to standardising all the packages, we think it is sufficient that the goods are hidden away. We can't see the big steps for people with this grip. We think the same rules should apply to e-cigarettes as to other tobacco products. There should be no difference between this in the store, and we will subsidly support the Left's proposal for turning around. The supervision of tobacco products is important. We think it's wise to have a municipal model for this. There is reason to believe that the lack of supervision has led people below the age limit to access tobacco products and that this has as much impact as standardisation of packages to reduce recruitment to tobacco dependence. So for candy: I love liquorice pipes, so I'm happy that both options in this case are opening up to liquorice pipes. But I think the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have a point when they think it shouldn't be possible to sell candy that is very tobacco-like. Does President Kojak think? It was a candy we as a child could fool everyone up with. They looked like cigarettes, and it was deadly. It is such a product the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party address, and we in SV are quite a few in that it is completely unnecessary to expose children to this type of product.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e389	Norway has a long tradition of being at the forefront of the fight against tobacco damage. In the past, Norway has been criticised by the World Health Organisation for no longer being in the driving position for tobacco measures. With this bill, the government wants to take Norway back as a priority country in tobacco prevention. The new EU Tobacco Directive reinforces instruments such as health warnings and reporting obligations for the tobacco industry. New measures are also being introduced, such as the prohibition of flavoured cigarettes and a completely new regulation of e-cigarettes. In Norway, we prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes with nicotine. The Government proposes to remove this ban on making e-cigarettes available to established smokers as part of harm reduction. E-cigarettes are a relatively new product and there is insufficient knowledge of the long-term effects, whether the product is capable of functioning as an effective smoke-removal or the health risks it may pose to users. The concern of established smokers must be balanced against the need to protect children and young people. In some countries, e-cigarettes are being used by young non-smokers. We have a special responsibility to prevent children and young people from using tobacco. In Norway, there are still about 100,000 young people smoking, and snuffing is now being used by every three young men and every five young women. 15 years ago, 10 pst. by all young men and no young women. The Institute of Public Health has called the development of an epidemic. I am particularly concerned about the increasing snuff use among young women and pregnant women. New knowledge shows that snuff use is very dangerous for the foetus. Possible consequences are low birth weight, premature birth and, in the worst case, stillbirth. The tobacco package itself is one of the last channels for tobacco advertising in Norway. It is well documented that the tobacco industry uses design elements such as colours and logos to attract new target groups. A number of products of untraditional design have been put on the market in recent years, particularly in terms of snuffing. This trend has not coincided with the increase in the use of s turnips among young people. Australia was the first country in the world to introduce standardised tobacco packs, in 2012. Their conclusion is that the measure works. Smoke numbers go down, 25 pst. the decrease can be attributed to standardised packages. There is a much better result than expected so soon after the introduction, and even greater impact is expected over time. In addition to Australia, a number of other countries have now introduced or started the process of introducing the measure, despite massive counter-attacks by the tobacco industry. The industry has also used legal instruments to stop the measure. So far they have lost all things. The proposal is thoroughly explored and knowledge-based and supported by the vast majority of hearing bodies other than — of course — the tobacco industry and its representatives. The Party of Advances and the Left is critical in its position that the bill on standardised tobacco packages also applies to snuggling. To this end, I would like to stress that snuff use poses a risk of serious health damage, and standardised packaging is an important measure to prevent children and young people from becoming tobacco addicts. We are now at a historic crossroads. In the past, primary efforts have been made to regulate where tobacco can be used and to provide information on health risks. These are important measures, which continue. But rather than putting the responsibility on the individual, we are now moving through the current law decision, the burden on the tobacco industry and its products. Tobacco smoking kills more than 6,000 people a year, often after painful diseases. These disorders and the premature deaths could have been avoided. We now have the opportunity to address the core of the problem and to contribute to the fact that today's children are not the victims of the future. I would like to thank the Cancer Association for the good cooperation we have had in the work on this important legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e428	It is not always as easy to ask questions to the Council of State. He has a tired tendency to respond with counterattacks. So I've equipped myself with a little prop here today. These are chocolate cigarettes, very colorful and fine, and in the proposition the following is the reason for the amendments in Sections 17 and 24: ‘The reason for the amendment is the proposal to exempt from the age limit and the prohibition on presentation the use of tobacco products, including liquorice and chocolate cigarettes.’ When the Council of State can see with its own eyes what these products look like – and if he takes into account what the Committee really thinks about this proposal: Does he agree that it was a solid loss, a big bruise and bad political craft to promote a proposal that this could be sold freely to young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e438	Today I am in such a good mood that even the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen cannot get me annoyed. On the contrary, I myself was the case rapporteur for Dagfinn Høybråten's smoking law, which I experienced was a historic victory. I hope that Tove Karoline Knutsen today feels the same pride that I felt that day, when she has been the case rapporteur for this important law. I am very pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, with the subsidiary support of a significant number of parties, have found a solution that further limits the possibility of selling exactly the type of products that the representative here presented, and that, in reality, we are now only opening up liquorice pipes and the kind of products that can only be compared to what they look like in comics, not in reality. It is a very good solution, to which I am very pleased that the Storting joins today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e445	I take that as a confession that maybe this didn't come out completely lucky, and that's good. If you Google the word "lacripipe" and "Registration", you get 4,258 hits, so I realize that this with the liquorice pipes is very important. But I want to ask the Council of State for another point in this proposition and the treatment of it, which is still a little bit unclear. The Council of State has said that you are not quite sure how you want to do this with regard to advertising bans and prohibitions on e-cigarettes. I can understand that there is a lot of uncertainty about this, because this is a product that has been on the market for ten years. But I would like to ask, has the Council made a decision on this? As the Council of State knows, the Labour Party and several parties here are voting for it to be subject to the tobacco regulatory measures that are applied to tobacco.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e452	With regard to the prohibition of the arrangement, we consider that. What is the case is that e-cigarettes are a product that we want to be used by those who already smoke. It's a new product, and there might be a reason why they can see the product, see the different characteristics of the product, in order to make a choice in a purchase situation. It does it differently than other tobacco products. As far as the advertising ban is concerned, I just want to stress that it sounds very dramatic. But it is not going to be lawful to advertise e-cigarettes in the form of advertisements, TV advertisements or that kind of thing. What we might be talking about is that when you sell on the Internet, you can have a picture of the product, just for the same reason that we have with regard to the prohibition. However, some general advertising of e-cigarettes will not be available in Norway with what is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e460	I have a pretty simple question. It says that e-cigarettes do not prohibit the use of flavour variations, but that they can be evaluated later. Just as I think I'm a weakness of what's being settled today, because it's clear that taste in e-cigarettes can lead to more young people thinking it might be an ok product to use. So I want to ask the Council of State how he evaluates that particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e467	That's one of the points that we have to follow in the development of the use of e-cigarettes. I experience today that it is also one of the reasons why some smokers choose that product instead. It is the intention to open up a regulated sale of e-cigarettes in Norway and to change it to safer forms and not least to obtain information. I am quite convinced that there are quite a number of grandparents in Norway today who use e-cigarettes at home in their own living room when they have visits to grandchildren, simply because they do not know that the fumes that come out contain large amounts of nicotine that are harmful to the children, because we have had no opportunity to tell about this since there has not been a regulated sale of it. I think getting a regulated sale could also give us an opportunity to get both safer use and more information about use. This is an area where we have to follow, and it is also agreed by the majority of the Stortingen, and then we will have to consider actions along the way if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e472	I record that the Council of State is happy – and rightly so. And so is the fact that the Council of State has gone through a bit of rapid political development, because it's not so many years since he himself stood on what is today the Left's position linked to snuff. But my question is whether the Council of State is so happy now that he will consider what we know most about from the debate on the drug notification – we were unable to lift the entire moral paragraph – namely, the question of bladder replication for anti-smoking drugs, to start a phase-in, for example. with the carbon atoms – whether the Council of State is so happy that he will now consider it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e479	I hope not that in the future the Left will also have as standard that what is good politics is what Höie meant ten years ago. Things happen, we get new knowledge, and it's important to develop politics in line with that. The challenge today is to turn around in tobacco addiction for young people, and that is why this is such an important measure. But the question is about anti-smoking drugs. It's clear that what's happening is that for every smoker today there's a huge economic savings gain in quitting smoking and buying anti-smoking drugs, so financially every smoker comes out of this. That is the background to the fact that we have so far chosen not to give reimbursement for this over the prescription system, simply because every smoker will save money on such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e486	First I just want to say I thought it was a little unnecessary comment the council had to the representative Knutsen. I didn't think it was right to come. I just want to get a reflection from the state council on the measures we're discussing here. Compare with if one manages to increase the physical activity and create a sane diet in the population, how historically important in a public health perspective to my government council is to do the packages that are hidden behind the cabinet, like?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e493	It is historically important because tobacco smoking remains one of the main causes of premature death and disease in Norway. More than 6000 die prematurely as a result of tobacco use in Norway. So this is historically important. At least this government manages to do more things at once. There is no contradiction between the type of regulation we are making today and the type of action that the representative withdraws – on the contrary. This week is very good for public health. This week the government has also signed a cooperation agreement with the food industry in Norway, which will reduce the sugar content of food, which will reduce the salt content of food and will reduce the saturated fat content of food. It reaches us all – all refrigerators and all bread boxes – throughout Norway. Together with the cooperation parties, we have agreed this week on a budget which, in sum over these four years, represents a budget of nearly 1 billion. kr in the school health services and health centres. Where was SV when they were responsible for the health budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e500	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e507	Studies show that almost half of the population in Norway are positive to standardised packs, even among those who smoke daily, there are 20 pst. supporting the action. Among those who sniff daily, it's 24 pst. which is positive. There has been a change of attitude among people when it comes to standardised packages. We believe this is about understanding that it will have an effect, especially with regard to children and young people. Children repeatedly learn how dangerous and addictive tobacco products are, that tobacco should never be used, and that it is illegal to sell tobacco products to children and young people under 18 years of age, but still children see tobacco products with inviting packages, colours and designs. Adults can handle this double communication by means of comprehensive health warnings issued by authorities, but children cannot manage to compare these mixed messages in the same way. I think it is quite alarming today that SV is on the side of the Progress Party in this matter. When the representative Knag County's demand for this really has historical significance, I am absolutely sure it does. In addition, I must stress, as the Minister of Health also says, that there are people who have raised public health, mental health and children and the health of young people in government, it is really this government. As the Minister of Health says, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have contributed a billion more to preventive health work for children and young people. In the last year SV, the Labour Party and the Central Party government were in place, the number of health sisters in Norway decreased by nine years. From 2014 to 2015 it increased by 133. It is not only health sisters who come within the appropriation that the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to the improvement and improvement of year by year. The government's SV may have had no impact on anything if you've fought for this, while we're a minority government that every year gets the help of the Christian People's Party and the Left to do this area better and better. Many people are sub-communicating the fact that young people actually start with snuffs. They don't start with smoke, they start with snuff. Therefore, standardised packages are of great importance in protecting that the growing generation does not become dependent on tobacco. It is still fully possible to sniff in Norway; smoking is still fully possible. The same products will be found behind the locked cabinets, but we have to remember that it's not behind the locked cabinets that the look is important, it's when they're lying around on the tables, that the look on the box is important, and that's where we avoid children and young people seeing it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e518	It's an expression that tells you to hear a lot before your ears go off. Today I have to say that I was declared when I heard the representative from SV say that what we are doing today has nothing to say in a public health perspective. That I think is to reduce this matter dry. When 6000 die due to smoke, reach 20 pst. by young people still smoking, when one in four young people snores, when pregnant snuffs and actually have sick children, or when children die in their mother’s life – then I would say that this, more than anything else, is a public health problem. The fact that SV is standing in the same boat as the Advance Party is almost incomprehensible to me, because here we are talking about public health. We're getting public health plans. We've dealt with a priority message in this room, just to get funds for the patient groups that need it, and then, where we can, we need to reduce other patient groups in order to have money for what we actually want to treat, but at least reduce the suffering for those people who actually experience getting sick of smoke and snooping. Then we must also be able to take political action. We have some major health challenges relating to sugar, smoke, alcohol and inactivity. These things together will improve public health in Norway with large sums, not least in years of life. The Christian People's Party has fought for the designation of the school health service. Now we're not going to take next year's budget now, but it's going to be 250 million. It is important to be active, to use less sugar, to use alcohol can be harmful, and to start with snuffing and smoking does something about your life span. It must be possible to have more thoughts in your head at once and at the same time prioritize and see that some things can be good – together – in the broad context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e528	That I'm going to stand here and defend a proposal from councillor Höie against an attack from SV, I didn't see it coming all the way today. There is a difference between primary prevention and secondary prevention. This matter is about primary prevention. It is about preventing a problem from occurring and preventing injury or disease. When one compares and sets this case up against the fact that one should rather concentrate more on the scholastic services, then it's mixing these two things. Secondary education, school health, is about when a problem has begun to arise. It is true that SV – Left too – is concerned with preventing social health differences. Why do we have social health differences in Norway? What is the main reason why we have social health differences in Norway? Well, it's smoking, and it's because smoking has a social gradient; it's those with the lowest education and the lowest income that smokes the most. For this reason, it is also the case in Norway that those with the highest income and those with the highest education live much longer than those with a different social status. So if SV meant something about social health differences in Norway, they should support the Council of State Höie today, the proposals he comes with, which are aimed at preventing tobacco use among children and young people. After all, smoking is clearly the life-style factor that is proven to be the most serious and decisive for health damage and for disease in the future. So I'm among those who are surprised at the resistance. Being against standardised tobacco packs is an honest point of view, but the argument is dishonest. What I could have thought of today's support was that we now got this in place with a municipal supervisory system. It's missing. Otherwise I can tell you that I also like liquorice pipe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e541	It was reassuring to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e547	I think it's an important day today. I also noticed, as SV's representative, that the Council of State is not going to be able to get in the bad mood of the undersigned today. That he often gets in a bad mood, I fully understand. I have a bad tendency to peck a little bit in the slightly elevated self-image the council agrees with, and in the statistics and tables he often brings to squares about both the one and the other. I intend to continue that, so he'll probably annoy himself a lot beyond the undersigned. But today we're going to be happy, and I hope and believe that the Right is a little more satisfied than you might seem to be to both the Workers' Party and other parties here in the opposition who are bringing this into port, because it's a fact that the government is divided into two, as they are sometimes on important issues. These measures that we are taking today are relatively fresh and new. We don't have very long experience either, not internationally, with how they work. However, the evaluations we have are promising, and it is therefore right and important that Norway takes the lead in this area. I'm assuming that the Council of States is now following up, coming along, both nationally and internationally, on how this works. I'm particularly concerned that the e-cigarettes, if we don't take the right grips, become more smoke reinvention products than smoke weaning products. I hope and believe that the Council of State does not want it to be the first and therefore he is looking carefully at what kind of action he is going to take and what kind of grip is needed to make them a smoke weaning product. So maybe Norway is going to ratify the relatively new tobacco convention. The EU here proposes that tobacco goods be banned. I don't think we should underestimate this candy because the tobacco industry finds new channels for advertising when other channels are closed. It is therefore no wonder that the tobacco industry has expressed itself in very positive order on tobacco goods. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State may start thinking that instead of opening up tobacco goods, he will rather make sure to do what the EU recommends, namely to ban the sale of this candy. We agree, of course, that liquorice pipe is harmless candy that you can sell at the shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e556	Suddenly, the theme became Right raised self-image, and at least we've got some demonstration of a little earlier today. I thought moral indignation was something that allowed the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but there are certain other representatives who want to show where to stand. We have adopted a goal of a tobacco-free society. Then we almost have to be quiet with some tools as well. Many people wonder why I am a member of neutral tobacco packs. It is for the simple reason that all other measures will be an intervention in the freedom of people. We can increase the fees, which will make tobacco more expensive. We can increase the age limits. We can do other things, additional sales barriers. Everything is something that affects the individual. Here we have a measure that affects one thing: the ability of the tobacco industry to market its products. There is nothing about access to tobacco, but there is something about the ability of the tobacco industry to market its products. There are now more than one hundred different snuff boxes in Norway. It's said that snubbers still have to be available because someone can use it to stop smoking. Well, there will still be access to snuff in Norway after this decision, but it won't look so fancy. Then it is that tobacco products and the tobacco industry are the biggest cause of death for non-infectious diseases. One can talk about sugar, one can talk about other things, but tobacco has one effect, and it's sickness and death. There is nothing else about that product. The tobacco industry is, in my view, a supplier of health damage and death. That's why it's amazing that the only batch that now follows the tobacco industry all the way out and doesn't even want neutral smoke packages, that's SV. With Knag Fylkesnes’ posts, we can see that SV is the leading friend of the tobacco industry at Stortinget. The arguments I have heard from the tobacco industry and rejected, they I hear from SV. That's pretty special. So the representative from SV here says what we should do if we were concerned about youth health. Well, everything the representative points to, we've done, but it might have a connection with SV choosing to leave the Health Committee. They had a place there, but they left the Health Committee. So, health policy was so important for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e565	To Stensland: If you want to follow that reasoning, you should be well in government with a whole bunch of best friends of the tobacco industry. So one has chosen partners with care. What I was trying to do was put forward a perspective in this debate. With the big words and historical sus over the posts, it might sound as if a person actually has banned smoke and turned around, that's the step one's taken. It's a discussion that's out there somewhere, and we have to do it at some point. Someone has to take the first step, presumably, someone has to say it first, but there has not yet been anyone who has taken the initiative. It would have great, positive consequences for the people. It would really have the effect we're talking about here. In the meantime, we're trying to make it more awkward. We support the supervisory measures. We support the proposals of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party on candy, for the reasons that have been mentioned here, among other things. from Knutsen. We also support the government's grip on e-cigarettes. We just don't support standardisation. We think it's an overreaction, we can't see the big step this is going to be. To the representative Toppe: I can't understand that post, because we – in the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party – have irritated us about Right's ridicule of our proposals on school food, that the first thing they did when they came into government was to cut fruit and green, and that they have soon spent a whole period of staggering on finding a model of physical activity in school. They've spent so much time on this that they're likely to come up with a model that doesn't have any impact on their budgets, that is, measures that would really bring people a lot of progress forward. As I think it's an open point that when one does this to the historical step of public health, it says a little bit about the level of ambition one has in this area. It's a rather impressive reality Wilhelmsen Troeen must exist in when Wilhelmsen Troeen manages to imagine that the work Right and the Progress Party have done for the people of government has been so amazing. I think it's very illustrative when one does this thing as big as she is. I recognize the importance of it, and I'm, like Bollestad, very concerned that we have to bring down the tobacco industry in Norway, but I just don't recognise the scope of this proposal to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e578	Someone might get to be the elephant in the room. When I see the reactions to Knag Fylkesnes’ posts, I can imagine what the reactions are like after my post. Firstly, I fully agree with what everyone has said, and we all agree that tobacco, cigarettes and snuff are not good for people or for the individual. But for the Progress Party, this is about having some basic approaches to things. Yes, you can choose – like the large majority here – that every time there is something you don't like, you have to put in place a ban or a ban to stop people from being allowed to make those choices. For the Advancement Party, it's about the fact that you have to be allowed to make some stupid choices from time to time, and then it has some consequences. Then we're going to work to prevent others who are not there today from smoking or sniffing. It's a job you do with public health work and with many of the campaigns we run. Then I fully agree that we should prevent children and young people from getting into this. But it's 18 years old today, it's locked up in a locker, so if you look at a cigarette pack, it doesn't look like something you want to do when you see what pictures are on these packs. So I don't think there's any big will to start sniffing or not least smoking, it's smoking that on the packages doesn't look very nice. So the Progress Party was willing to join in and discuss whether you should look at snuff packages, but we don't want to do what the majority now does, that you should have plain packaging too for snuffing. So I think it's a little sad that someone, because you have a different principle position, all the time to say that you're suddenly the friend of the tobacco industry or the runaway or girls of the tobacco industry. That's not what this is all about. At least for the Progress Party, it's about us being principled and having some fundamental position that we're critical of a lot of prohibitions, injunctions, etc. In addition, I also think that some of the posts bear a little touch, as a smoker came and said to me, that I feel that I am getting a little maligned because I smoke. I think that's sad. So it's kind of funny: now I've been looking at everyone who's been here and talking, and that might mean that we have to have plain packaging on the picture behind us, too, because the snuff box is very good in the picture that's behind here. Perhaps the Eidsvolls image needs to be re-used a little in the context of the great debate we are now having that this should not be visible. Here it is very well visible when most people are in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e593	This is becoming an interesting debate. I think it's the perspective towards 2030 that is taken up in the setting, and the comment that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have on a smoke-free Norway by 2030 is what we're really going to spend time discussing in the future. How are we gonna get there? The knowledge-based measures are very important, and we know that there is evidence that neutral cigarette packages will help us on the way there, that fewer people start smoking and also to make availability a little harder. It may not be the only and the biggest measure, but it is a very important step on the way, combined with the tight smoking law we have in Norway. Then we have to start discussing what other measures we are going to introduce in the future towards 2030 in order to achieve such an important ambition as getting a smoke-free Norway. It will indisputably give very many a better life, not getting cancer, not getting coal — serious diseases that cost society a lot. I understand SV's position here today. There are several who have been involved in the effect in the debate today. I record that SV often leans on research and knowledge, and I do not fully understand that one leans on the proposals of the Progress Party here today. This debate should be addressed with an ambition to be smoke-free by 2030 and with emphasis on harm reduction measures. That's where the debate on snuff comes in. There we don't have that research and the evidence that it will work to the same degree. The same applies to e-cigarettes. Here we have to research more. This means that we also need to research more on other measures in order for us, as politicians, to receive the important governance signals that we need in the future towards 2030 in order to become smoke-free. It is the most important measure for the Norwegian health sector and for the individual. So a little bit of a happy comment at the end: that's how you want to hear an important smoke signal from the government, you can listen to DAB radio.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e602	The fact that the Progress Party is subjected to a bit of criticism from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party is not unusual – nor in this case either. But when the representative Toppe says that the argument against standardised packages is dishonest, I have to react on behalf of the Advance Party. It is simply a principle in our party that legal products must necessarily show their brand. That is the sole reason for our position in this matter. When the representative Knutsen talks about colorful and fancy designed smoke packages, I have to say that I do not find frightening images and crystal clear health warnings either colorful or fancy. It is also very rare to see that the smoking packages are used as an eye-catcher on a restaurant table or at home in the living room, where children also gather. That's why I'd rather not be accused of running the tobacco industry's errand or of being its best friend. I fully support the national meeting of the Progress Party, which has decided that legal products must necessarily show their brand name. It must also be followed by the party's grouping. Finally, I can stress that I have never even used snuff or smoked tobacco – other than by a small experiment in the school yard once in the fifth grade. That was not a time for repetition. All my four grandparents died of cancer; three of them were heavy smokers. Both my parents are smoking. Regardless of all the negative impact it should have had on me, I have managed to make my choice about a tobacco-free everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e613	First of all, I have full respect for Morten Wold's principal position, and I expect that he has full respect for my principle attitude that this is to remove the last marketing spot for the tobacco industry. That is why I support this – because it is not a major intervention in people's everyday lives, but in the ability of the tobacco industry to influence consumers. So back to the debate about this is a historic day or one. We're at least back to the story, because if we look at the picture behind us, we see one of the mariners who bake a price, and that's reason to assume that his tobacco spung is reasonably neutral. So now we're back there, at least. Although SV has chosen not to participate in the Health Committee and has thus taken part in many important health policy debates, I choose to take seriously some of what is being said. Knag Fylkenes said that what we are adopting today is an overreaction – it is an overreaction to introduce neutral tobacco packages. But at the same time, the same representative says that what had happened was to ban tobacco – and that is not an overreaction. I don't quite understand. Then he's within this with public health. I wonder if there is any government that has used more energy to lift the weakest groups in health, who have spent more energy to strengthen care for Ruspacers. At the latest in the last agreement, there is a significant increase in responses to drug use and measures for those who really need it the most. 250 new health sisters have arrived in the last three years. In the time Knag Fylkesnes' party crashed, it was, as far as I know, an increase of nine. So it's a little sad that one uses this case to tell how bad the government is in all the other areas, when, first of all, that's not true, and second, that this action is effective. It shows the research, it shows the results of Australia, and we see that other countries that we often like to compare with, like the United Kingdom and France, are on their way to implementing exactly the same measures. In fact, it is pleasant – and also historic – that there is a Council of State from the Right, namely the Council of State Höie, who is at the forefront of this action. Then we health politicians can get us to enjoy it, and then Knag Fylkesnes can go to another party if he doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e624	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e629	The reason I had comments against SV was that I perceive that they devalue tobacco policy as an important reason why we have social health differences in Norway. So I respect that someone has a different view of neutral tobacco packages. I would also like to make it clear that I think Right goes too far in saying that it is a historic day, and, as it says in the setting, that one wants to take back Norway's place as a 'neighbouring country in tobacco policy'. The first thing this government did when she came to power was to take away and scrap the authorization system for the sale of tobacco, which was the most important thing we put in place to just control and prevent the sale of tobacco to minors. They've spent three years working on it, and they haven't yet come with that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e636	It could be tempting to go up the big public health debate – I realize that as the case-rapporteur I have endless three-minutes – but I am not going to go for that. There is no doubt that there is a major difference in general public health policy, for example. Work party and government, also right. One of the best illustrations of it came to me in a debate I had with the school-political spokeswoman Kristin Vinje about school food, where she said the following: No, school food wasn't right for, it really got to be the parents' responsibility. We agree with that, of course, the problem is simply that you individualize a big problem, that some kids come to school with maybe not quite good luggage and don't have food with them in the school bag. And then we know that they start with an inequality that propagates and strengthens itself later in life. That's why the Workers' Party thinks school food is so important. It's early action, and it's general universal action, and those who research public health say that that's what's important. Today I will give recognition to one part of the government, to the Right. The Minister of Health often uses to say that we're envious if they get to something, that we can't enjoy that they get to anything. Yes, I am very happy when measures like this are going well. The Minister of Health is starting up, and we agree, and we believe that we are positive and important for the health of people in Norway. Therefore, I have no problem saying that this is a good day, this is a happy day. I am very happy that we can support this measure because tobacco is one of the most harmful contaminants we have, and it takes many lives, as others have said here. But then I hope that the government and the Right can be consistent, and that they see that the cynical tobacco industry, which is often referred to, finds its channels to promote its products. I really hope that at a later stage, or today, the Council of State will say that it will follow the EU's advice to ban, for example, the use of drugs. tobacco gods. Because there is no doubt that although the parents do not want the kids to buy such candy, they buy such candy if they find it in the store. And then it's a little too late to hang on to the owners of tobacco and snuff. I see that one of them takes a price. He was definitely from your edges, Hoksrud, so then we'll say that he represents you and what you stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e647	It's very good to say about the mariners, but that they were some example in the context of public health, I'm a little uncertain about. I should like to know what the average age was for the gentlemen. I think maybe it wasn't the whole world. The representative of Olug Bollestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute. The party of progress is in government. The Progress Party shall chair the Health Committee. The point of progress is that young people should not start smoking and sniffing. Now we have the opportunity to do something about packages, we can say something about attitudes, we can encourage adults to use the knowledge we have about smoking and snuffing, and ask adults to be good examples. That means that we help people choose something other than smoke and snuff, when we know that smoke and snuff makes health become like it does. We want fewer people to smoke, fewer to get sick, and fewer to suffer a lot. That is why we support the government's proposal on neutral tobacco and snuff packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e666	Finally, in this debate, I would like to thank the majority of the people in this House for supporting these changes and, not least, for the fact that there is now a majority in favour of introducing standardised tobacco packages and snuff packages in Norway. I would also like to thank the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, for a good job as rapporteur of the case and for keeping this case in port in Stortinget. I also look forward to new, fresh discussions with the representative, it's always a pleasure, although it sometimes goes beyond her and my mood, but it goes quickly to both of us, I think. So this is an important measure. We must also be aware that Norway plays an international role in these kinds of issues, precisely because the tobacco industry has enormous economic muscles. In other words, when working internationally to combat tobacco use, it is part of the countries that have less resources than us and that are unable and dare to implement the necessary measures, simply because they are afraid of industrial lawsuits and are very much affected by industrial working methods. Therefore, it is important that countries such as Norway, France, the United Kingdom and Australia, which have considerable resources, dare to take the lead and provide a way for other countries as well. There is also an important perspective in this matter. Finally, I have to get more precise, because from part of the contributions, it can be made a sense that the Storting today opens up for the sale of candy that looks like tobacco products: it doesn't do the bulk of the population. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have further tightened the law in that area in relation to what was my original proposal. I don't have a problem with that. On the contrary, I am very pleased with that, and there should not be an impression that we are now opening up in Norway to sell tobacco-like candy at the shops in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e675	It was interesting that Tove Karoline Knutsen thought that the man in the picture behind here, with the snuff box, was from my homelands. At least I don't know him very well, and it may not be so strange, because it's been a couple hundred years since he lived. Maybe that's why. I agree that it is important for adults to be good role models. So I also want to say in this debate that if you look at youth today, today's youth is healthier than my generation might be, and they were before my generation was. I perceive that there is a different attitude among young people in terms of smoking, cigarettes and snuffing, and it's also good to bring with them. There are a few other things I also want to point out. Some people have taken the example of Australia to a very large extent. Yeah, it's gone down. But I also think it's important to bear in mind that Australia actually did two things. They provided neutral packages, but they also made sure to increase the fees quite sharply. We have already increased the fees quite heavily. Then you might have to see that there may be two factors that play in view of what has happened, that the sale has gone down. I see the council shaking its head, but it was at least the two things they did, and it's also okay to have them. In addition, the Institute of Public Health is being drawn out as the great example of a broad consensus on everything here. I must honestly say that it is not quite such that the Institute of Public Health appears with just one tongue in this matter. There have been disagreements, and there are professional disagreements. We also saw that at our hearing, that there were several different opinions, among other things. with regard to the number of deaths in Sweden, they have much lower consumption of cigarettes and tobacco, but they have higher consumption of snuff. I also think there are moments that you should bring with you when we discuss this. Then I have no problem that someone in principle believes that it is right to make orders, bans, etc. But the Progress Party has a different approach, because we actually want to be principled, and we're concerned that people also have to have the opportunity to make some choices. Sometimes you don't like the choices that others make, but they're going to have to have the opportunity. I think that it is referred to as “dynamic” and anything else that you choose to use, in many ways, that the various representatives have their own account. I think maybe you could use some other words from this pulpit instead of that kind of word. Fortunately, I have never let myself be influenced by the fact that my father always smoked, as the representative Wold said, so it is good not to start even if others do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e690	To the representative Hoksrud: The story of the belongings of our friend on the picture belongs to the creative story of history that I, as an artist, never allow myself to be so much a staging representative. But that's not why I took the floor, I wanted to comment on the Council's last statement. It is with respect not to report that the Council of State has tightened up the legislation on the sale of tobacco-like candy. He didn't, he made a proposition where he opened up so that the age limit and arrangement could be exempted from the legislation for this type of product. That is what I personally, as the case-rapporteur – must I say indiscriminately – have fought against. I want to commend the committee that has given the council what I want to call an ear-catcher and really tightened this up. Then I assume that the Council of State will follow closely that this will not be circumvented, so that we can find these chocolate and chewing gum cigarettes with Disney figures, which are probably sponsored by the tobacco industry, in Norwegian kiosks. I assume that he will follow closely. If there's some sort of slippage here, we're going to demand from the Storting that it be cleaned up, and that there be a clear ban on positioning and age limits, so we're going to reverse this if it starts to slip out. It must be my last word as case rapporteur in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e697	I should just like to say briefly that what the representative Knutsen is making as an earring, I feel like a loving touch on the cheek in this matter. I'm very pleased with what the committee here is in favour of, and I think it's a very sensible solution. The Ministry has also contributed to the solution and ensured that this was done in a legally correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e702	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 ended in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e718	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e727	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party, who have promoted this proposal to introduce a target of growth in the ideal shares of health and care services. An overall increase is currently taking a decision asking the government to set a target for growth in the share of the overall health and care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit activity and, in an appropriate manner, to present to the Stortinget a plan of short-term and long-term action to achieve this. As the rapporteur of the case and as a KRF, I am very sorry that the proposal of the Central Party has brought us to this consensus. It is incredibly important that an overall increase today sets a national target of growth for the non-profit sector. I look forward to treating the plan as a follow-up to this objective. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this is a very important proposal. The Christian People's Party even promoted this proposal in the spring of 2013, when the Stortinge dealt with the announcement of tomorrow's care, and I quote: ‘The government is asked to facilitate 25 pst. by non-profit sector by 2025.» Unfortunately, no other parties voted for this, although this was a proposal in the context of the public investigation on which the notification was based, from the Hagen Committee. We do have a certain understanding that it may still be the case in primary politics that some parties that were then in government could not vote for what they were for, because they had to be loyal to government policy. It's a little different today, I see, sometimes the government parties vote against what the government really stands for. In order to achieve the objective of increasing the use of ideals, it is necessary that the public, both state and local authorities, actively use all the possibilities provided by the new public procurement and public support legislation, with the aim of continuing and increasing the proportion of health and care measures taken by non-profit organisations. As we point out in the vote, the possibility of good procurement is in line with policy objectives of growth in the non-profit sector in place in the Acquisitions Act. That is what we have ensured in the process of law and decision of the Storting. I would like to stress that the regulations and guides to inform about the scope of action and the different procedures that public purchasers can use to achieve their objectives are also very important. I would also like to mention a solution regarding the historical pension costs proposed by the Hippe Committee. There's a significant factor in this picture. Therefore, it is an important decision that was taken on Monday, that the Stortinget will have the matter dealt with already in the spring of 2017. The primary objective of the Christian People's Party is growth in the non-profit sector, and it should be numerically fixed to a minimum level of 25 pst. We believe that at least 25 pst. of the overall care sector should be organised and run by the non-profit sector, but we are nevertheless pleased to be able to support the Committee's desire for growth. We therefore do not promote this as a separate proposal. In Oslo, the Christian People's Party's representative for the city government has for example proposed a numbering target of 25 p.m. The City Council asks the City Council to put forward a strategy, the City Council asks the City Council to set a target of about 25 p.m., and the City Council asks the City Council to use the action space as far as possible in order for the ideal actors to take precedence in the submission of tenders. This is an example and an example for other municipalities. I don't like party speeches. We need a binding policy to achieve this specific objective, which I believe will ensure a diversity of healthcare services in Norway, from which I believe our patients and our users will benefit. With this, the Christian People's Party recommends the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e753	There is every reason to suggest the efforts of non-profit actors in the health and care sector. We have long and good traditions in this country for ideal actors to take on tasks for the benefit of the population. Ideally, therefore, there is a special task to do in the health field – a task that differs from, for example, the physical one. private commercial drivers. While NPISHs plough any profit back into their core business, the main objective of commercial operators is to obtain the maximum return on their investments, such as dividends to private owners. In the latter years, the difference between non-profit and commercial actors in the welfare sector to all over-targets has become much greater, because we have seen an increasing groupification among commercial actors. This, in turn, means that both small private enterprises and NPISHs are under pressure in parts of the welfare sector. Both in Sweden and subsequently in Norway, a small commercial group, with both national and international interests, has taken over the competitive, commercial part of care. These are players who are looking for returns and profits and who are opting for them. This does not mean, of course, that employees in commercial businesses are less serious in their work or have a less idealistic view than those working in non-profit and public activities. However, the pressure on workers in this type of commercial enterprise can become high over time, and it may compromise the quality of services. The research you have in the field suggests that it does. In other words, non-profit actors operate on slightly different terms than commercial ones. They have a different basis of existence, a different mission and often different financial assumptions. These are salaries and pensions for employees, the degree of staffing, market thinking and the structure of the company. Therefore, it is so important that we recognise that ideals have a very special mission to provide welfare services, rather than commercial drivers. The size treated in our Prop. 51 L for 2015–2016, on government acquisitions. In the position taken by the Business Committee, it was stressed that access to reservations for NPISHs must be included as a separate chapter in the Health and Social Services Act, both in law and in regulation. Several pointed out that the existing space for action needs to be maintained as much as possible for the benefit of patients and users. The May Spezzino judgment suggests that contracts for health and social services can be reserved for NPISHs if this is in line with national health and care objectives and the best interests of the community. In the context of the hearing on the case, many pointed out the cooperation possibilities available through, for example: increased self-reliance, including this was an important point for the Joint Union. Several showed that in Denmark they have developed a model for direct and long-term operating agreements with NPISHs. Public purchasers may, subject to new legislation, choose to take care of non-profit actors in a number of different ways. Under the new rules, it will only be required to publish competitions for health and social services if the value of the acquisition exceeds the EEA threshold of 6,3 million. kr. When purchasing below this value, public purchasers may choose which businesses they wish to use, for example: ideal actors. In its treatment of Prop. 51 L in our request The Swedish Government that the regulation should be designed in such a way that the contracting entity can either publish open calls for tender, reserve contracts for non-profit actors or set up cooperation models between the public and the non-profit actors. The Labour Party believes that the best non-profit actors, with high competence in key areas of health and care, will be able to play an even more important role in solving welfare challenges in the years to come. We believe and believe that we can achieve that, without setting a specific percentage for this participation. And then the government has to find room for action to give priority to the ideal actors in front of commercial drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e770	The representative Kjersti Top focuses on ideal foundations and their importance in the health and care sector in the Document 8 proposal. That's good. It's important to discuss. Ideal foundations often have a history of some individuals who have taken an initiative to meet an unmet need for treatment and care in society. So it was when the doctor Heinrich Arnold Thaulow in 1857 started the forerunner of the present Modum Bad. Today the site has grown, and the clinic has 100 patient sites. Modum Bad has the status of a hospital and is one of the ideal foundations that are part of the free choice of treatment. In addition to daily treatment, Modum Bad also has outpatient clinics, research institute, course and competence centres, resource centres for doctors and the Institute of Mental Health. Modum Bad is a pioneer and a precursor hospital for physical activity in the treatment of mental disorders. I'm telling this story because the non-profit sector has often gone ahead and shown the way. The interaction between the non-profit sector and the private sector is therefore important for the development of the welfare society. Being an innovator is still one of the most important roles of non-profit and private suppliers. It's a special feature they show us – since they're not subject to the public, they often have a bigger room for it. Ideal enterprises are innovative in nature and offer a range of skills and experience different from those of employees in public enterprises. We need these. The missing person's home, which is not a non-profit, but a private actor, is just an example of innovation and innovation, but unfortunately this is wanted by the City Council in Oslo. Municipal health and care services face major challenges in the years ahead, and it is therefore of great importance to involve more actors in the work to meet the challenges facing the sector. With several non-profit and private service providers, we increase the possibility of giving users greater freedom of choice and influence over the service they receive. The most important thing for the Right is the quality of services received by the individual user. The high quality of the services provided for public account is more important than whether the services are provided by the municipality, private or non-profit institutions serving households. We are pleased that the government will work to strengthen the framework conditions of the ideal actors. It is a great step forward that it is better facilitated. In 2015, a new cooperation agreement was concluded between the ideal KS and the government on the delivery of health and social services. The Agreement establishes principles for overall strategic cooperation between the country, KS and non-profit sector related to the provision of health and social services. However, the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to set a specific percentage for the non-profit-making activities in the health and care sector. But we want the proportion of non-profit enterprises to increase, not decrease, and we are therefore looking forward to the government coming back with a plan for growth. The size has adopted the government's proposal for a new law on public acquisitions and new regulations are laid down in the law. The new regulation has a separate chapter on the acquisition of health and social services. It is clear from the rules that the contracting entity can focus on a number of factors that have traditionally been strong and competent by the non-profit actors, such as: user involvement and innovation. It also appears that the contracting entity may pay attention to its need for a wide range of services. In addition, it is emphasised that the contracting entity may also conclude long-term and ongoing contracts. Ideal businesses will always be at the heart of the Right. We believe that they contribute to diversity, and they increase freedom of choice, not least user choice and provide healthy competition for innovation and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e791	Norway is a country with a great deal of hard work and a lot of volunteering, and non-profit institutions are very much based on this. Historically, the ideal non-profits have been on the path as premiscuous suppliers for the development of the welfare society before public and commercial actors. The Church's Bymition in Oslo is the oldest, it was founded in 1855. Throughout history, the Church’s Bymition has evolved from being a wake-up movement to actually a modern big business in the health and care sector with a major mission for the state and municipality. The Church's Bymition is still a driving force in Norwegian society for justice and solidarity with disadvantaged groups. The Salvation Army knows most of them very well. Combating social injustice and spiritual poverty were important factors for this organisation. In the infantry of the Salvation Army in 1888, old age was a life without health and services we in today's welfare state take for granted. That's why it became important for Othilie Tonning, the social pioneer of the Salvation Army, to value the daily lives of the elderly to become a field of activity. Through her, the first homes of age saw the light of day. Through the 1900s, the Salvation Army built a large number of sick and old homes throughout the country. Since 1896, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation has been a guide to the welfare community and has always had public health as its primary task. Sanitary women have been innovative and have seen needs in their time. Already in 1916 they saw the importance of research and knowledge and established research funds for cancer. Later came tasks in tuberculosis, revmatism, osteoporosis/leg cleavage. Women’s medical research and the living conditions of women, children and young people and older people are also the focus of the organisation. I could also go home to Telemark and mention the Borgestadklinikken, which does a fantastic job in terms of care and families in vulnerable situations. Over many decades, enterprises have been operating as a necessary, recognised and integrated part of public service provision and with a long-term perspective for their activities. Common to them is that they have something unique to contribute as providers of welfare services to users and society. They contribute to a service offer of high quality, diversity and flexibility. Ideal actors are characterised by a strong user focus, they get close to patients and users, and they characterize the local environments in which they operate. They often manage a type of trust among users that appears to relate to the particular by being non-profit-making. Long experience, high competence and a high level of involvement characterise many non-profit institutions. In addition, non-profit enterprises recruit and involve volunteers and peers in the operation, as well as professionals. They're also doing a lot of community work. It is a vibrant and pulsating non-profit sector in Norway today. These people are doing a great job and are important to take care of. I also believe that, in order to build the patient's health service based on quality, diversity and high skills, we will be dependent on increasing cooperation between the public and non-profit sector, but also with the private sector. Unlike some of my counter-debates, I believe that the introduction of free treatment options has strengthened the diversity and freedom of choice of patients, including in the non-profit sector. An element of private commercial and private non-profit actors can contribute positively to more user choice, increased freedom of choice and more healthy competition for quality and innovation between suppliers. I agree with the Hagen Committee in their statement that the new Community solutions can be developed between public and civil society. On this basis, I see that it would be natural to set the objective of increasing the proportion of health care services in the non-profit sector in the long term, but I do not think that we should lock ourselves in a fixed percentage. The Progress Party therefore supports the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e806	In this document we have proposed to ask the government to introduce a target of 25 pst. of the overall care sector shall be organised and operated as a non-profit-making activity by 2030. We believe that it is an important debate to debate for Stortinget, and in the Committee's position, we, together with the rest of the Committee, propose a different proposal for a decision. So we're not dealing with our primary proposal, because we're concerned about what the Storting can gather about. We are pleased that a joint committee proposes to ask the government ‘determine an objective of growth in the share of the overall health and care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit activity and, as appropriate, present to the Stortinget a plan of short-term and long-term action to achieve this’. The ideal sector is very important and represents something unique, which one does not get with just a public offer or possibly with a commercial offer. It's at this interval between the public and the civil sector that we can get the good stuff. The ideal sector has also led to the creation of a very large number of health and welfare services that the public has come and taken over in retrospect. I'm worried that the non-profit sector is now at a crossroads. For many years, including when we were in government, there has been a tendency that non-profit sector and non-profit organizations have our losers in the health system we have organized. The way in which the Norwegian health system is organised, with its supply and competition as a matter of principle, means that the non-profit organisations have too much weight. It's because competition hasn't been fair. Ideal providers have e.g. other pension obligations, they do not have strong commercial forces in their backs that can tolerate losses for some years in order to enter the market. With this government it's written in the government platform that one thinks that the production of welfare services differs little from the production of other services. The use of competition shall stimulate the creation of value added, better services and efficiency, and it is essential that competition becomes a horizontal element of public activity. I would have wanted another policy for the non-profit sector. We now have an EEA Directive and a new procurement law has been adopted. It states that all providers of health and social services should be treated equally, that there is a general rule that tasks cannot be reserved for non-profit organisations, but in specific cases an award may be granted and restricted competition may be permitted. It is also pointed out that there is a possibility of cooperation associated with what is called extended self - control. I think it would be wise to set a goal. Today, if we look at the whole area of health and well-being, it's about 6 pst. which is run by the non-profit sector. Ideal enterprise is great before child protection, intoxication and psychiatry, but in very many of these fields we see that commercial actors take over; it applies to kindergartens, it owes partly to child protection, and it owes increasingly to the other areas. Now we get a case and a plan back to Stortinget. If we don't want to discuss a number, there's a difference between whether we think it's okay with 6 pst. 20 pst. or even more - otherwise there will be no real debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e829	The proposal of the Centre Party today creates a good debate on future organisation and capacity in the care sector. I want to add that we need to discuss the capacity across the health sector, also related to the specialist healthcare service. As many have experienced, the ideal actors have a long and good history of developing health and welfare services in Norway. That capacity and competence should and must be taken with us in the future. We are facing major challenges in the health and welfare sector in the future, with an increasing and ageing population. Several have also focused on elements of innovation related to the ideal actors. It is an important part of the debate to contribute to new solutions, where the ideals have already shown what they can contribute. Compared to the public sector, they have the ability to turn around, and they tend to have shorter decision-making lines than public actors. It's important to keep playing. We see that there are major technological changes in the care sector, and we have to enable the ideal actors to be involved and lead the way in the transformation we're about to enter into in the future. This also applies to the construction of some housing and institutional premises, where there is a need to create new solutions, and where the ideal actors have done a great and important job. It is therefore important that we facilitate that we not only provide grants to build new spaces, but also create action spaces to renovate old buildings for modern solutions. I want to draw attention to the 2017 state budget. For the first time, we have introduced health as part of the clustering programme in the instrument in the Ministry of Food, and we are now seeing clusters growing up. In the wake of Oslo Cancer Cluster and Nansen Neuro, health clusters around the ideal actors are also beginning to grow. The Helseklongen Valdres and Land are one example, based on drug and psychiatry institutions. Another is the Beitostolen Health Sports Center. There will be new initiatives and new cooperation that we should also be able to take care of and develop. To the concrete objective of numeration: I am very pleased that the committee is gathering on what we are doing today, and not concretely tying up anything so far in time. The most important thing for us is to facilitate growth in order to have a solid and sustainable non-profit sector in Norway, as an important contribution to the health and welfare work we are going to develop in the future. I have also been in the position of the ideal actors in the specialist health services in the field of drugs and psychiatry. They're doing a particularly important job there. I would like us to be able to give even greater space there for the ideal actors, and that we can look at the corporate structure and whether we can give room to ideal actors like a real hospital enterprise – where we can get an enterprise to compare the publicly owned enterprises with. I think we have something to learn both in terms of management, in terms of innovation, and in terms of organizing activities, and that, in sum, we have a lot to do to create that space for the ideal actors. We're also going to have a room for the private and, as someone says, the commercial actors. So very commercial is it not so far – there is not so much money to make on health care in Norway. We should remember that they also pay taxes that the other actors do not pay. There is therefore little room for making money, but we need to develop educational requirements and research requirements for both the ideals and the private actors in order to drive this forward in a good direction. But I'm glad that the committee is gathered that we're going to give the ideal actors a bigger place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e852	It's a very superior and long-term debate it's being invited to. The private non-profit sector has been a very central fundamental mover for the health service we have today. He should be in the future, too. The gap – many of which have been in and as we also read from the setting – is an important perspective for development and innovation in the Norwegian public health service. Dynamics and flexibility – the public sector has much to learn from the non-profit sector. But to ask a Right-front Party government to prepare and put forward a plan to increase the non-profit sector – we know that this will not affect the rapidly emerging commercial sector, but the public sector. This invitation to be sailed at the current time cannot be an SV of course. The non-profit sector often flows out of organizations, movements or different ways of life. The public sector is streaming out of the people and by definition is also non-profit. Therefore, SV cannot support the fact that we are now involved in a movement that will, in the utmost consequence, bring down the public sector. We support the idea of giving more space to the non-profit sector, but we fear that this kind of stuff is now, it could go beyond the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e861	Interaction with the non-profit sector is important for the development of the welfare society. The ideal sector has often gone ahead and shown its way. Being an innovator is still one of the most important roles of non-profit and private providers as providers of healthcare services, and we believe more than ever that we also need them in the future. Municipal health and care services face major challenges in the years ahead, and it will be important to involve more people in the work to solve the challenges we face. The government wants to facilitate private and voluntary initiatives and release more good forces to provide good welfare services. It will create new solutions, greater freedom of choice and a more varied offer. The government has therefore launched several actions to improve the framework conditions of non-profit actors. In order to facilitate better interaction with the non-profit sector, a cooperation agreement was concluded on 19 June 2015 between the non-profit, KS and the government on the provision of health and social services. The Agreement lays down principles for overall strategic cooperation between the country, KS and non-profit sector related to the provision of health and social services by non-profit sector by agreement. It is also a central issue for the government to develop the health and care services of patients and users. Several non-profit service providers increase the possibility of giving users greater freedom of choice and influence over the service they receive. The government has that background, for example: as a follow-up to the Reporting Report Treatment of the Storting. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care, developed a guide on user choice in municipal services. In this way, the government wants to facilitate a greater diversity of solutions and involve non-profit organisations, social entrepreneurs and others in addressing future health and care challenges. The size has adopted the government's proposal for a new law on public acquisitions and new regulations are laid down in the law. The new regulation has a separate chapter on the acquisition of health and social services. The purpose of bringing together the provisions of a separate chapter is to make clear that special considerations apply to that type of acquisition. It is clear from the rules that the contracting entity can focus on a number of factors which have traditionally been strongly influenced by the ideal actors, such as: Just user involvement and innovation. It also appears that the contracting entity can focus on its need for a variety of services. In addition, it is emphasised that the contracting entity may conclude long-term and ongoing contracts. This government will work to strengthen the framework conditions of the ideal actors. I believe, however, that it is not appropriate to set a specific percentage for the ideal activities of health and care services, but we want the proportion of non-profit enterprises to increase, not decrease. We therefore welcome the unanimous decision of the Committee asking the government to set a target for growth in the share of the overall health and care sector in municipalities to be organised and run by non-profit institutions serving households. We will come back to Stortinget in a suitable way with short-term and long-term measures to achieve this, in line with the decision of the Stortinget. I would also like to point out that the municipalities have already concluded agreements with the service providers concerned and can, if necessary, set targets for this. We also see that several municipalities set concrete targets on behalf of their sector. Of course, the important thing for me is the quality of services received by individual users. High quality of services provided for the public interest is more important than who carries out the task. But non-profit actors have a special role in both involving volunteers, ensuring a patient and user perspective, and not least in seeing areas and new tasks that the public does not see on its own. It's been Norway's history. It's the story of the construction of the Norwegian welfare community, and that story is not over. There will still be areas of society that the non-profit sector sees, starting with solving tasks, and which we see as a completely natural part of our welfare society, and then we also need to have a strong and active non-profit sector that gets new tasks on behalf of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e882	I think we have a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that we want a strong non-profit, voluntary sector, based on non-commercial activities and where one plucks the profits back to the business. However, many non-profit actors are concerned about developments, and this debate shows to a large extent that one has two completely different approaches to this. While the right-hand side speaks of the fact that the non-profit sector may take public sector shares, there are many of us who think, rightly, and that the non-profit sector also believes that the commercial sector is bridging the non-profit sector. One would rather look at the relationship between the non-profit sector and the commercial sector. So my question to the Council of State is simply: how can the Council of State ensure that voluntary actors are not squandered by commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e889	Today, the size of the population will – and I am glad – adopt a comprehensive plan for how to contribute to increasing the participation of the non-profit sector in this area. I have explained in my article some of the measures that the government has already taken in this area. But if you are going to get into the share that is in the original representative proposal, there can be no doubt that this means that the non-profit sector must also do tasks that are being done by the public today. There's no doubt about if you're going to get up to that size. But I think it is important that we give the non-profit sector a significant role in the development of our welfare services in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e894	I am pleased that the Council of State says that the proportion of non-profit actors should increase in care and healthcare. Blue Cross is an important actor in this way. They do a lot on behalf of many and on behalf of some companies. However, the Blue Cross Laden Treatment Centre in Trondheim has been told these days by Health Mid-Norway that they must reduce the number of places in their home by seven, despite the fact that they operate 25 pst. cheaper, and that Health Mid-Norway now will build this up itself. Nor does it entirely relate to what the Stortinget and the Government have said before, that companies should use a larger share of the ideals than they do per day. What does the Council of State think about enterprises for which he is responsible reducing the number of places to the ideals — despite skills and results?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e901	It is quite right that this government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, has given a very clear mandate to the health regions, among other things. increasing the use of non-profit-making private spaces within the ru area. That assignment, which was then in 200 places, I perceive that it has been completed. I have not had the opportunity to check the content and the overall picture related to the agreement that Health Mid-Norway has now entered into, but there is no doubt that our mission has been to a greater extent to use non-profit actors in this area. And then we'll see if I have the opportunity to think a little bit more about what's behind the result that's come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e906	The proposal to set a percentage of 25 pst. was suggested by a public selection, the Hagen selection, and it was promoted as a longer-term goal for us to move the sector in the right direction. Then there are more people in today's debate who have mentioned that we do not need a targeted percentage – even if in other policy areas we see ourselves as a target, and like to talk about it in order to have something to reach out for. That was also the way the proposal was supposed to be, we can discuss that. However, the proposal for a decision was not a targeted percentage, but to ‘determine an objective of growth in the share of the overall health and care sector’, which should be non-profit-making. I would like to ask the Council of State how he perceives the wording of the proposal for a decision, ‘a measure of growth’, as to how he will re-apply this matter. Isn't that a number?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e913	As the representative is well known, a measure of results can be in percentages, but there are also other measures. I think it's good that the Storting has given the opening to see how the government can solve that problem. We're going to come back to a goal of increasing the proportion. That's exactly one of the questions we have to consider. I can't answer that today, but we're taking this assignment very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e920	Governments are talking nice about NPISHs, and it's nice. At the same time, it is a fact that, through the various Directives of the EEA Agreement, Norway is able to protect the non-profit sector from competition with commercial companies in terms of contracts and offers for the provision of welfare services, amended — that is a fact. My question is simple: What opportunities does the government and Norway have under the EEA Agreement to distribute non-profit institutions serving households over commercial ones when a job financed by the public sector is done away with?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e927	The scope has been tested well, both through the examination by the Business Committee of the procurement legislation and in the work on the regulation that has been done subsequently. I mean, in a lot of ways, it's very easy to see the constraints, but not the possibilities. I believe that there are great opportunities, such as: also appears in the regulation. By being clear on which aspects you focus, e.g.: The use of voluntary participation in the work may highlight precisely the circumstances in which the non-profit sector has unique opportunities to contribute and will have an advantage over other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e932	When the Council of State says that this is well tried in the nutrition committee, there is one way to say it, but that is what happens in practice, which shows to what extent it is tested – in terms of practice. The Council of State says there are great opportunities. Yes, there are possibilities. So the Council of State says that if volunteers participate, there's a premise in this. Is it the case, at the discretion of the Council of State, that if a tender is made where voluntary participation is required, it may be a priority, so as to exclude commercial operators, which do not have such voluntary participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e939	It is quite obvious that there is an opportunity – as I also said in my speech – in connection with a job outside, for mission providers to focus on a number of issues where the non-profit sector is traditionally strong, for example. user involvement and innovation. It will give the actors another opportunity to win in that type of tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e944	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e952	It's an interesting debate and an interesting line change. The target of 25 pst. The non-profit sector can be a good target. My goal of health policy is the best possible care and care for our citizens and that we make the best possible use of our health resources. In this picture, it is absolutely a point that the non-profit sector is getting good conditions, but also other actors. The reason I drew myself was the posts of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, where she talked a little about the difference between ideal actors and private, commercial actors. It is presented as the only goal of private, commercial actors is to make dividends to put in their pockets. It might be interesting if we had got a more nuanced debate about this, I'm not sure if we need to take it today. But is it really the way that those who choose to organize their business in the form of a limited liability company do it exclusively to enrich themselves or their owners? Could it be that there is a way to eliminate risks when you want to realize your life project? There are examples of this, for example: We had a drugstore in North Norway that encountered problems because they had organized themselves like an AS. What about people who run as a sole proprietorship? Isn't that the same thing? The entire profits of a single-member enterprise are attributable to the person who operates. So here I think we're going way too far in criticizing those who choose a different form of company than, for example. a foundation. Then the representative de Ruiter was in danger because the commercial disputes other actors. It may happen, but it may also be that people who choose to work in a different way can work a little bit smarter. Maybe they'll find better solutions. There are several examples, including: in the city we're in now, in a nursing home run by so-called private commercials, who have found many good solutions, and those who live there are really good. It must be the goal that those who receive care and care should have the best possible care and care. I think we should go a little bit in ourselves when we talk about those who are doing this type of business. It could be that they have different intentions than just enriching themselves and their owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e963	As a little girl, I grew up in the Salvation Army. I was even a junior soldier in the Salvation Army. Some of what I learned there, I've taken with me for the rest of my life. It was to look at them as delete, and give help to those who needed it. Long before the state and the municipality had a thought of entering and running care services, public health and hospitals, ideal actors were there – for the weakest, for those who were ill, for those who were ill, and for those who had a drug problem. Whether it was mental health, somatic or drug addiction, they were there. They were there even for kids who became orphans, or kids who were poor. Today, many of these actors continue to operate. They have acquired great competence, great trust, great warmth and great identity in the people. People are confident about what they've been doing for years, long before we as a state and a municipality got on the track at all. They seem to have good results at better prices. They've been drivers of innovation, they've gone ahead to raise their skills. They have also shown a way to meet patients who, I would say, have taught the public to see the whole human being. Many non-profit actors also offer their competence to the public, by promoting skills, training places and new knowledge. Patients get a diversity to choose from, and I think, we can't afford not to, and we can't afford to cut those that have actually been such a large part of our health care over time. I think that's good the proposal that has come, and that we want to take care of them, use all the spaces of action that exist, because patients and our users will be allowed to choose. I think this should apply not only to the specialist health service, but also to the community health service – perhaps most of all there. Now, when things are to be implemented, with care and aftercare, we may be able to use these ideal actors, who not only work from eight to four, but also from four to eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e975	Today's debate concerns the size of the non-profit sector's activities, activities paid in full or in part from public budgets. For the Central Party, the background to the matter is the strong emergence of large commercial companies, often international, often located in tax havens, which take over a larger part of the business, which we do not want. As I said in my reply to the Council of State, the various directives of the EEA Agreement have made us come into a new situation, conditions have changed, and I have listened with interest to the fact that there are few parties that bring the fact into the debate. The new Acquisition Act § 4 and § 7a and the new Acquisition Regulation § 30.1 state that all providers of health and social services should be treated equally. [[2]] This means that we now have a general rule that says that assignments cannot be reserved for non-profit institutions serving households. It therefore requires specific rules on the provision of health and social services in order for you to be able to address them. It is also quite clear that, in my opinion, if the public is to emphasise at the time of the conclusion of a contract that profits should remain in the establishment, this would be contrary to law and regulation under EEA law. What's interesting and important in this discussion is a note where both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are involved, i.e. what can form a majority later, where one points to the possibility of using extended self-regime. It's quite interesting that no one from the government parties or the state council has gone into it. It's the most obvious possibility we have here to ensure that the volunteer organizations can still have a central place. It makes me think I can draw the conclusion of the debate that this will not be the last time we debate it. Where one does not draw up the possibilities that lie within the scope of the EEA Agreement and discusses how to organise tenders, where appropriate agreements to comply with them, there is little reason to believe that there is any change in the reality of the case, namely that private commercial operators are increasingly taking over what is ideal today. There are many worrying messages we get from strong NPISHs that have been running their business for a very long time, doing a very good job, which really captures new things in the needs challenges, and then loses in competition because we have been subject to EEA legislation. It is an important debate. I hope it comes up again soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e984	It is difficult to discuss this matter without linking it with the actual developments in this area and in the whole welfare field. Of course, the ideal sector does not work completely in isolation. Looking at the area of asylum, child protection, kindergarten, and also partly the care sector, but perhaps not so much, sees strong growth in commercial actors. One sees it in our neighboring country. One sees it here, too. There is every reason to be on guard against such a development. There is every reason to ask: how can we ensure that the voluntary sector has a greater share, and how can we ensure that the emergence of private, commercial large companies does not get even stronger in our areas of well-being? A solution can be to look at the model we have chosen in the school sector, where there is a ban on dividends, or in the kindergarten sector – where we have not completely succeeded, in my opinion – with a reduction in yield. So I want to challenge in particular the government parties: are these models we could look at? Let us consider whether we should make greater use of the kind of opportunities we have used, for example, in the area of welfare and care. in the school sector? That would really be of great importance to the non-profit sector, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e991	I took the floor because two important perspectives have come into this debate, from the representative of Lundtigen and from the representative of the Ruits. The development tasks to which we will all go after using the non-profit sector, as a contribution to this sector, are now subject to different conditions under EEA legislation – it is right as the representative Lundtigen says – but it is still so that we can target and use the non-profit sector for targeted tasks. That's why, as Lundtigen says, it's not the last time we're going to discuss this. We need to discuss what tasks we want to use the non-profit sector to develop – some call it advantages, while I'd rather say that non-profit actors are the best ones to use for some of those tasks. In this way, we can agree on procurement law tasks, so that we use them for just innovation. We're going to apply that possibility, and that's a little bit of the explanation that the left hand side is involved in these comments. Here we're on the loose ground, and we have to change direction. Therefore, these discussions are interrelated. We need to spend more time on this. So they draw Ruiters up a discussion about the boundaries we've made in terms of making dividends in the kindergarten sector, but also in the school sector. There will also be an important debate in the future. It's not necessarily about limiting someone, but it's about how we develop the community, about the premises we're going to set for it – that's important – and how we can plough the funds and the means of development back into the community. It is absolutely right that we need to spend some time on this in the future and discuss both conditions and devices, but also what opportunities new international legislation actually gives us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e998	I take the floor to get a more nuanced understanding of reality than the one that Freddy de Ruiter is coming with. I want to tell you that nine out of ten nursing homes are run by ideals or private people, and that's 6 pst. of those who are private, and 5 pst. ideal. In fact, among the private sector, there are quite a number of small actors and family-run private institutions. It contributes to diversity and, precisely what we want, innovation and innovation. In the specialist health service, we're actually under 10 pst. This is not a massive commercialisation of care services in Norway. Right wants freedom of choice and has always wanted it, but that means you actually have to have some choices, and you have to make some choices. That's what we do by having a diversity with both private and ideals. The main challenge in public health care is quality. There's too much difference in quality, and it's not about whether they're private ideals or ideals. I recall that the Arbeiderparti-steered Trondheim probably has almost Norway's record of deviations in the care of the elderly. This is not, in terms of quality, about who delivers the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1009	Here we are now discussing the space for action that can be available to use ideal actors. The size has determined that public purchasers can choose to take care of non-profit actors in a number of different ways, according to new legislation. Under the new rules, health and care competitions are required to publish it if the value of the acquisition exceeds the EEA threshold of 6,3 million. kr. In the case of purchases below this value, public purchasers may choose which businesses they wish to apply to themselves. For example, it will. be able to address only non-profit actors. New legislation may also reserve competition or may be awarded directly if the contract is for the exercise of public authority. This may be relevant within the drug field, psychiatry and child protection. In addition, the new rules clarify the access of public purchasers to focus on the specificities of healthcare services, including the specificities traditionally favoured by non-profit actors. The needs of users are central. It concerns users with special needs in terms of quality, continuity, universal design, acceptable prices, accessibility, a comprehensive service provision, user involvement and user integrity, mastering and participation in society — and more. The new legislation makes it clear that the public can conclude long-term, long-term and ongoing contracts in order to meet the user’s needs for stability and continuity. For us, it's just a question of whether we're actually going to use this space of action that is, and I think we should do that politically, both nationally and locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1020	This was really a very nice debate initially. I think everyone agrees that you want the non-profit sector to get a bigger place, and it's clear that it means that someone else needs to get a little less space. 100 pst. is the total, and if you want one to get more, someone else will get a little bit less. But I'm a little provoked when the representative de Ruiter goes to the pulpit and takes off at private, just as his party colleague Tove Karoline Knutsen did a little earlier. I think it's sad, because you can give examples of private, ideal and public that can't always deliver the whole thing you're going to. But most people deliver very well, whether they're municipal, ideal or private. To stigmatize so that every time it's a commercial or a private actor, it's a big, terrible group that's going to make money to run care. It's like the representative from the Right, Ørmen Johnsen said, it's very small private. When I was at the NHO Services' presentation of a new report, one of them got up. He was just like Olaug V. Bollestad and had been with his parents at an institution. He worked to provide people with good care, but was rather tired and sad because he felt that some politicians should at any time try to make him a cynical user in the care sector. I think that's sad, because it's not such a debate we should have. We should have a debate on how to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the non-profit sector – they have volunteered, they have been there for many years, and they have the skills and confidence to be able to provide better care, whether within, for example. care for the elderly, specialised health services, care for the elderly or other areas. Because that's what this is about, and that's the difference between the Advance Party and especially the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties, SV and the Center Party: that we want to take advantage of all the opportunities that it offers to have different offers. For some, there's one thing that's very good, but it might not work as well for another. The lack gives the individual the opportunity to get the best possible services, and that is what we are concerned about. And then we're concerned about how to participate and help the non-profit sector get an increasingly important input into caring. I believe that there is a great deal of agreement here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1027	I think that the debate here in the Chamber is still pleasant, even though we disagree a little about instruments and have a slightly different political stance. That's what this is all about. Fortunately, we agree that we want a strong voluntary, non-commercial sector in Norway, and we have good traditions for that – we have a tradition of over 100 years. The ideals were pioneers in a number of welfare areas. I think it is a little special that the representative Hoksrud and others in many debates constantly push small private and non-profit actors in front of them. What is happening in Europe, what is happening in our neighbouring countries, and what is happening in Norway, is that in a number of welfare areas, it is the big commercial companies that buy up the businesses, and it is the ones that dominate the market. In the Workers' Party we are too diverse, but we are critical that it is the market that is becoming dominant in several welfare areas. The representative of Ørmen Johnsen is quite right that in the care and health sectors, the percentage is relatively low, but in a number of other welfare areas, the proportion is very high at a time — for example, in the case of drug use. asylum, child protection and kindergarten. And if we facilitate the market thinking of the Right Party and the Advance Party, we will also get growth in private commercial providers. At least we don't want that from the Labour Party, and I really don't think there's a majority here in the Chamber either. At least we have to, as Kjeseth says, hit this in, so that it becomes diversity and not market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1036	The Central Party believes that we should have a care sector with a significant element of non-profit organisations and providers of health and care services. There is a goal in itself. When I listen to the debate in the hall, I actually thought he's weakening the case, because now it's coming up with what's the intention of some party. One would think that we were debating whether to set a target for growth in private commercial providers. We don't. Why are we not debating such a proposal? Yes, because they're doing their own thing. Therefore, we need to take action politically to secure the ideals. Are we going to pretend that there's not a situation out there where the ideals are actually being squandered, that's how the representative Freddy de Ruiter says, that there's a situation where very many strong commercial companies are going into the Norwegian health market? If you don't see it coming, a pretty naive thing is. That is why the Central Party has put forward this proposal – to be a little in front of it and for a political set to be clear that we want a strong non-profit sector in Norway. The NHO went out in the spring and said that they now want a broad alliance to get in the way of solving the health challenges in Norway. They referred to the health industry as a new Norwegian giant diet. It's a verbatim quote. When several representatives here today speak the private commercial case and think that we are talking about them too little, that we stigmatise them, that – yes, it is important with ideals, but it is also important with commercial ones, because it is the lack that is important, then it turns out that there is just lack and competition that are important to them, not the ideals in themselves. It is the opposite of what is the intention of the representative proposal, and which I hoped was also the intention of the proposal that has, after all, been given multiples by all parties outside SV, who, if I heard correctly what the representative said from the interlocutor, are afraid that it would go beyond the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1045	I chose to take the word again because I was mentioned in some of the posts here. They now come up with a very big debate, and I don't think we can take it completely today. But there's a very interesting debate about what kind of actors we're going to have into the different parts of our welfare services. I think we can at least start by saying that there is no doubt that if we want more ideals into the welfare sector, we have to make a borderline with the commercial ones. I remember very well when I entered the Stortinget, and it was a few years ago, that we had visits by both the Salvation Army, the City Commission and other ideals who were very concerned about their own situation under a bourgeois regime in Oslo, because they saw that they were going to succumb to competition with the commercials. And the commercials weren't Gunda from Grorud and local entrepreneurs. The commercial ones that were then on their way in, and that are now increasingly affecting the commercial part, are large international groups. I myself know companies that have started as family businesses, which have been taken over by the major actors. It is not useful to undermine the fact that these actors have foreign owners, are registered in tax havens and have a tough dividend policy. I remember that we got a copy of a letter that came from the bourgeois city council in Oslo to the Workers' Party in the city, which explained that the dividend on a medium-sized hospital in the capital – that is probably eight years ago – was 35 million. kr during a tendering period of perhaps four to five years. Thirty-five million. kr the owners benefited from a medium-sized health home. That money has not come because you had income in the care of the elderly, they must have come because you have saved costs. And how do you save costs in the care of the elderly? Yes, 80-85 pst. are composed of staff – employees – and the remaining percentages are fixed expenditure. Then there are two and two four for me, so that you have to have a commercial big player who has tough demands for profits and profits, you have to start to chew on paid people, you have to squander on staff and on skills. It's a law of nature. That's the law of gravity in market thinking. We can't talk away from that. I hope we get the opportunity to discuss this very thoroughly at another opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1055	I want to tell a story that's not about care services, but made an inconceivable impression on me. I was the rapporteur and was visiting the neighbouring municipality and met a young girl in Langgata, Sandnes. She sat and cried, and I am so made that those who cry, I go away to. She cried, and then she said, "Don't you think you're a politician? Yes, I am. So she said, yes, our home they're talking about... her orphanage, which had been run by the Bymission, was now to be run by other actors, and a young girl became uncertain. Today we are talking about ideal actors. We talk about protecting ideal actors because patients and users need predictability, but also those drivers that ideal actors represent need predictability. That's how the Blue Cross rates build institutions, spend money and need predictability. And we need their services. That's why it's incredibly important for the Christian People's Party that we are an overall committee that now asks the government to set a target for growth in this proportion, and that we use the entire space of action that exists to secure these actors, so that we get long-term agreements just so we don't break these ideal actors in the meeting with the commercial. Nor do I believe, as SV believes, that the ideal actors are a threat to public health Norway. I rather believe that the ideal actors can be involved in showing the way and giving skills in a good way to the public. They often go further. They have as their motto always to extend further. And we have to fight together with ideal actors who provide skills, deliver quality, deliver knowledge, and deliver results. It serves our patients and users, and it serves Health Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1064	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1069	I will take the floor at the end because it is important and we are not done with this debate. Because we are also a little bit in the heart of a debate that has not been raised. Until now, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital in Oslo has been the largest private hospital in Norway. Next year, a private hospital at Gardermoen, owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, will be the largest private hospital in Norway. They have purchased and now own Vertical Health. That is why we must continue to debate how to regulate some of the ideal actors, and how little commercial some of the ideal actors are. It can't be that you get a suction tube in the state because we don't have a regulated insurance sector in Norway. Here we all have one way to go. I cannot see this debate that the Workers' Party and the Left – so-called – have been around, so we have some challenges, no matter where we stand here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1074	It is especially when everyone speaks positively about the non-profit organisations, and no other batches joined the Central Party’s comment that the various Directives of the EEA Agreement change this situation – the possibilities for its implementation. It's a signal that's more worrying than many are aware of. Section 7a of the Acquisition Act refers to the Ministry as providing by regulation ‘specific rules on the acquisition of health and social services’. That's jus. There are clear rules that apply to a Council of State when it comes to formulating the necessary guidelines to be practised around public administration. When I asked the Council of State about the possibilities you have in this area, the Council of State replied that there were great opportunities within the EEA Agreement, and gave the impression that participation by non-governmental organisations could be a premise that was crucial for who would get the agreement or the contract. When it was then asked further about it, no response was given by the Council of State. Furthermore, the Council of State replied that user involvement and innovation could be emphasised. There is, of course, something that all actors can satisfy, so there is no premise at all. What is at the heart of this matter is the question of what is happening within the real alliance that has worked throughout history for the non-profit sector. It's the Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's what those parties can agree on, which is what's central here. The left wants to give way to the ideals, says that one should target the tasks in general, and talk about innovation. Without one going into it more precisely, it has a very modest meaning. The Christian People's Party is talking about the exercise of public authority. Yeah, that's important. It is important to use the possibility that public authority is exercised, but the Christian People's Party has not talked about extended self-regulation, that is, that non-profit institutions carry out a task on behalf of the public, which has been paid by the public, which is, of course, the great opportunity that can be relied upon. That's why we're in a situation where it's highly uncertain what's going on. The Labour Party is talking about finding room for action, is very offensive in that one does not want the large commercial companies, but is not at the same time so precise that one can get a change in the policy against which one speaks. The Norwegian people want more NPISHs. The elephant in the room, the EEA Agreement's limitations, is few talking about. That's why the discussion comes up again when we see what's happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1088	It's an interesting challenge the representative Kjeseth comes along, and I can assure him that it's being discussed in us that the system makes some non-profit actors perhaps start acting commercially gradually. It's a discussion we have to take on the highest seriousness. We have to ask ourselves why it happens, whether we should do something about the system, and of course how we should regulate any non-profit actors that become more and more commercial in their form.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1099	I think the centerpart's man Lundtigen should hear what the Christian People's Party has said, and not put his head in the sand. We've just talked about ideal actors working on behalf of public health Norway, like the Blue Cross. I must also say that the centre party should not put its head in the sand only they hear the word EEA, without looking at the possibilities that lie there – what the Stortinget has decided to do, a unanimous Storting – look at the possibilities and the space for action. We have, in fact, done that, and we have to deal with the legislation that is and what we have actually adopted. Then there is a space for action that we can use to protect about the ideal actors and give them long-term agreements if we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1122	This case concerns that the department should intervene against what we know today was a notified crime. The owners of the private school group Anthon B Nilsen carried out a merger that triggered a gain that caused the owners to re-establish with a significant sum, despite the fact that in this room we have decided that there is no possibility of taking dividends from private schools that receive state aid. The matter concerns what happens when you do not follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. It's about the consequence of not following, the consequence of making things easy rather than doing things really. It is about the consequence of the fact that the Government Department did just that, and the consequence of it was a school that demanded too much money for a non-satisfying educational offer, and a merger that triggered a gain that the department itself described as illegal. It is important for the Stortinget that state grants to private colleges benefit students, not commercial interests. In this case, the opposite happened, and the Ministry of Knowledge was informed. This case started with the National Audit Office’s comments on the Ministry of Knowledge in 2013 and the decision to raise the issue that these schools needed special follow-up. The current political leadership in the department stated that they were positive for a review. State Secretary Kyrre Lekve said to Universitas in 2012 that they followed this closely, that grants should benefit the students, and that he was positive that the Riksrevision looked into the matter more closely. The Ministry announced that they would launch a special follow-up of ABN Education and the higher schools NITH, Westerdals and NISS in 2013. So the Ministry and the National Audit Office already agreed that the company needed special follow-up. In the examination of Documents 1 for 2014-2015, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee noted that the Committee expressed ‘an expectation that the weaknesses described in the report on the Ministry of State Administration will be corrected’, and that the Committee took the view that ‘there would be a closer follow-up of national centres and the supervision and evaluation of grant schemes for private colleges and colleges’. So Stortinget said that we expected this to be carefully followed up. The Committee is of the opinion that the recommendations of the National Audit Office should be followed. But what happened after the 2013 elections? State Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen says in a statement at the government.no dated 5 November 2015 that he will ‘understand that the ministry has not stopped the follow-up of the school at any time’. In its reply to the Stortinget, sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Council of State writes that ‘the Ministry’s follow-up has shown that NITH, Westerdals and NISS were among the universities that have had significant equity and plan to implement a specific follow-up’. The Council of State further writes: ‘This specific follow-up was not carried out. The Ministry concluded that the follow-up should be made in the ordinary reporting.» So here we say two different things. In reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes that the Ministry did not find the basis for establishing that the transactions would be contrary to the law, and therefore follows up the transaction and merger as ‘part of the normal procedure, based on subsequent analysis’. In the same letter, the Council of State writes that he sees ‘that at an earlier stage the Ministry could have asked questions about the transactions and the manner in which the merger was carried out’. That's right. In the hearing, the Councils of State shall: ‘when we respond to the verification committee that the follow-up is not stopped, it is because it is followed up through our regular procedures. When we report back in the same correspondence round with the National Audit Office, we report back in March that both the merger and the transaction are followed up through ordinary procedures, and that the case is still not closed, i.e. that it is in process. It is also true that a specific follow-up, which was largely related to the equity situation, was not initiated." Here's a lot, and the only thing that's clear is that there wasn't a separate follow-up. State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen answers questions from the Business Administration of the day about the lack of follow-up to the recommendations of the Riksrevision that ‘the Ministry thought it was taken care of through the ordinary follow-up of the private schools’. In retrospect, it has been refused by the Ministry, which claims that they never stopped the review. It's clear it's very difficult to stop something that was never implemented. The Committee considers it to be and is problematic that there were different explanations on the manner in which the recommendations of the National Audit Board were followed up by the responsible State Council. The Committee notes that no special follow-up was carried out by the colleges, despite the recommendation of the National Audit Office to follow closely and the subsequent examination by the Monitoring Committee. The second question in this case, which has been important and somewhat difficult to clarify, is whether the crime could have been prevented by the ministry. In today's Business, the prime newspaper that has brought this matter to the market, Communication Manager Trond Andresen of Anthon B Nilsen says: "The Ministry was given with all clarity, both orally and in writing, all the details of the transaction, including that it would also trigger a gain for the owner." One of the information submissions took place on 11 December. Then ABN Education gave a new presentation of what was going to happen. It was a power point presentation, and the power point presentation had the great title ‘Intragroup transaction that triggers the gain’. Then maybe some bells should have been called. In retrospect, ABN Education also presented a presentation on how the merger was to be carried out. The Ministry was briefed on the proposed merger and that it would also generate a dividend, which the Ministry itself has subsequently found to be contrary to the law. This involves a breach of Storting's decision on a closer follow-up of the schools. The Council of State has argued on several occasions that the Ministry does not grant prior approval. That's right, it doesn't, and the ministry shouldn't, so that argument to the Council of State is absolutely correct, and prior approval was not given in the meeting with ABN either – quite correctly. But no one has asked for or discussed that prior approval. The reason why this is a matter is that one did not stop what was about to happen. The Council of State has argued that ABN Education was asked to send in a request in writing to investigate the legality, but what I do not understand is why it is not in the department's own interest to stop something that one considers to be a crime, when one is informed about it. Why is there no one giving notice? Subsequent to the Council's reply to the Control Committee, the University of Westerdals has responded to what they consider to be a misrepresentation by the Ministry. ABN Education had an impression of acceptance from the Department of Merger Plans. We see that in a meeting report, which is referred to in the comments, that you do not experience any reactions to what you have submitted. Responding is not giving or not granting prior approval. The Committee considers that the Council of State and the Ministry had reason to suspect that the Law of Higher Education was in the process of being broken. The hearing reiterated that the Ministry had all the details of the transaction, both orally and in writing, with all the clarity, including that it would trigger a win. A letter from the Law firm Thommess to the Ministry of Knowledge reads: ‘If KD had indicated that the proposed transaction could be in a doubtful relationship with § 7-1 [[2]] This also confirmed the lion's shield in the hearing. Of course, it is difficult to follow, and of course it is also very easy to be tall and dark and rank in retrospect and describe something that has not happened. To follow the truth of what someone says that knowingly and willfully has tried to take dividends from a school as a driver of state subsidies, the same school that provides educational services that are not sufficient, it's not always as easy to weigh, but I thought I should mention it anyway. The Committee considers that the Ministry could and should act differently when they were briefed on what was to happen. By letter to the Committee, the Council of State also stated that the Ministry should have asked questions about the transaction at an earlier stage and the manner in which the merger was carried out. Otherwise, I would like to say that I think the Council of State has been tidy in the hearing, and I think he has been honest when he has admitted and written and said that he himself believes that this was not done in the way that it should have been done. He's supposed to be bragging about that. Nevertheless, the majority of the committee believes that it is critical that this happened, for how could it happen? The Committee notes that the Minister of Knowledge at the hearing considered that the handling of this matter was not good enough and that I would choose to quote him. He said, ‘But I think the important thing in this case is that the department could and should have acted differently. I stress again that the department did not put the matter aside. As we wrote to the Riksrevision in March 2014, it was under follow-up, but that follow-up took too long because we followed our normal routines, and that follow-up did not come until late summer–harvest 2015. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has also stated that she believes the department should ask more questions. But to the statement that I now referred to from the Council of State, I cannot help but comment that it is the minister who is the ministry. He should have acted differently. The Committee considers that the Ministry of State should react because it is healthy public health and to expect to react in such a situation. We mean it not only because it's right to do, not only intellectually, but also because it's legal. In these notes, the Committee refers to the general guidance obligation under the Administrative Act. It appears that the administrative body is obliged to provide guidance on the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force in the matter in question where the nature of the case or the circumstances of the parties so warrant. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the aim of the obligation to provide guidance is to give parties and other interested parties the best possible opportunity to pursue their interests. We don't have that rule to take care of the interests of maximising dividends. We have that rule to make sure that when you seek advice and provide information, you are guided. With that in mind, the majority of the Committee questions whether the Ministry has assessed the need for guidance in this matter. The majority of the Committee would point out that failure to carry out such an assessment could result in difficulties for proper care of interests. The entire Committee questions whether the Ministry has provided guidance on what guidance should be given. The Committee considers that the hearing and correspondence with the Minister of Knowledge clearly show that there was never a specific follow-up to the schools, and that the department was informed of the events that later led to a police report, and probably could and should have stopped this before reaching that point. It's critical. This whole thing should be a lesson for all state councils. You're allowed to follow me a little bit. It's okay to respond. And it's not just allowed, it's mandatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1176	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work he has done on the matter. There are some conclusions that we disagree on, but I would nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work. Then there are some points that we agree on, and that is that this is a serious matter and that the ministry should act differently on some points. It is serious because there is so much doubt as to whether a significant number of millions of public dollars have been used in line with the Storting's decisions and assumptions. When we can look back at things and have all the facts in the matter, it would also be quite artificial to conclude that the department couldn't do anything else. That is what the department itself believes they could do. First of all, the Ministry should follow the National Audit Office’s recommendation to carry out a separate follow-up or review of the equity situation of the ABM Group in 2013. Then the ministry would probably have started a dialogue with the group earlier, and probably they would have avoided the events that now make us have this debate. But I would also like to point out that the majority of the committee – and the rapporteur now also – have said that it would be almost a general rule that the Riksrevision recommendations were followed. I think we have to say that it shouldn't be like that. The National Auditor's office is Storting's tool. They come with wise recommendations in most cases, but sometimes they have recommendations that should not be followed for different reasons. We cannot do it in such a way that the departments are accountable to the Riksrevision or others. The Ministry and the Council of State are responsible to Stortinget and are responsible for it when the Stortinget says that the recommendations of the Riksrevision should be followed. Without Stortinget joining that recommendation, there is just one recommendation, which the Ministry is free to assess in each case. So I would like to stress that this is not the way parts of the opposition write in their comments, that such a review was stopped or cancelled or cancelled. The Ministry concluded, as the rapporteur said, that they would be able to do so through the regular annual review. This was a decision that was made without political leadership being directly involved in it. There is also a type of decision which is in any case taken by the Office, and it was also confirmed by the former Council of State Kristin Halvorsen at the Committee's open hearing. This is a little bit important, so I'm going to come back to that very point. Then I also register that parts of the opposition believe that the department should have stopped the ABM group from carrying out a transaction as a result of information they should have received through the ongoing dialogue throughout the year. First of all, I would like to say that when you use the term ‘profit’, in my opinion, there is a complete error in this case. Dividends are a very narrow concept, which can be defined as dividends, for example: from shares. What has happened in this case is that there have been mergers, intragroup transactions, which cannot necessarily be defined as dividends. When it is also mentioned and suggested that ABM has demanded too much money or operated on lines that were not approved, and you criticise the current state council for it, it is completely, completely unreasonable. This is a relationship back to before the 2013 elections. It is important to remember that it is not the role of the Ministry to approve or reject transactions in privately owned groups — nor in groups receiving public support. That is what the case-rapporteur said in his introduction, but it is clear that the department should accept – or should not approve – such a transaction. The minority in this room believes that you don't have that role, but that you should do it anyway. I think that's weird. The way this is done is that the group itself takes the steps that they want to take over the year, and that they believe is within the law. Thereafter, they report to the Ministry, which reviews the documentation and gives an approval afterwards. If they find something they think is contrary to the law, they point it out, so that it can be corrected and corrected. That is exactly what has happened in this case. The Ministry found a transaction that they thought could be contrary to the law. They pointed it out, it was reversed, and the relationship was settled. So the ministry has done its job. So even if it was the department's role to approve transactions in private groups, the ministry has not approved anything in this case. It may not be that the absence of verbal protests in a meeting is the same as a law enforcement or state approval to carry out transactions in the hundreds of millions class. Everyone understands that. And if you're going to apply the guidance requirement, you've been advised that if that's how the ABM group is uncertain about the legality of the plans they have, they can send a written statement and get an assessment. That guidance was given, but there was no written request. This was therefore not assessed in advance. But it was evaluated afterwards, as practice has been, and as the ministry wants to do. So I think we should be very careful about concluding whether there has been a crime in this case or not. The reality is that the ABM Group believes that the transaction we're talking about here is not against the law, but they've reversed it anyway, because the department has come to realize that it can be. In other words, there is disagreement as to whether the transaction is inside or outside the law, and then the Storting as a legislative authority must be very careful to conclude on such questions. It is for the courts to decide whether or not a crime has been committed if there is a continuing disagreement between the parties. It's not like there are individual representatives who have spoken to the newspapers, or that kind of thing, it's written in the documents of the Storting, which are standing up for history, and if you take the functional distribution between the state powers and the power distribution principle seriously, you should refrain from the sharp conclusions that are in the vote. If we look a little bit ahead, we're now going to set up our own supervision to control the activities of the private colleges. They have both competence, mandate and resources to do their job properly, so that we avoid issues like this in the future. The Council of State should be praised by this pulpit for taking the necessary action in this area. Through the work done by the Committee and the rest on this matter, it has been quite clear that the supervision of private colleges has been too weak in the last ten years, and perhaps further back as well. So I'm going to end by saying that even though the department could obviously do things differently, it's very long way from that recognition to conclude that the Council of State has acted critically, as a minority in this room thinks. And that's not what the rapporteur said, that the minority writes that it's critical that it happened. It says that the Council of State has acted critically. There are two different things, and it's not like when you use the word "critical" in this room or in the Stortinge settings, it means the same thing as when you say it in a discussion around the dinner table. It means something else. It is a strong parliamentary expression, which is the same as the one used in the so-called 'dadelvotum'. And even if it's not in the form of decisions, even if it's just a note in the setting, this isn't a random choice of words. It is for the account of the minority, so others may consider whether such heavy shootings against the Council of State are reasonable in this matter. I think they all, most of them will conclude that it is not, but that may also be why the press has not paid particular attention to this matter after it became known that there was a minority criticism. At any rate, we in the right must note that the Labour Party has once again lowered the threshold for using such heavy parliamentary wording during this great period, and we note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1204	This matter really concerns two issues. One is the merger of NITH, Westerdals and NISS and the withdrawal of earned capital. The second part is the operation of film and television lines without approved curricula. That part is for legal treatment, so I'm not going into it. I will therefore only relate to the merger of NITH, Westerdals and NISS and the withdrawal of earned capital in the new company. Firstly, this case has its origins before the current government joined. Secondly, there is reason to point out that it would be most unusual for the Ministry to grant prior approval for structural changes or transactions within a private group. The usual practice is that such groups and companies manage their activities on an independent basis and report back to the Ministry so that the Ministry can check that the activities have been carried out in line with the law. The briefings given to the Ministry before the merger are, of course, not acceptable for mergers and withdrawals of funds, that this is ok. The normal procedure is that if a person wishes a formal clarification, it must be addressed in writing to the ministry. On the other hand, one can criticise the ministry and the self-criticism that the Council of State has taken on is that the ministry should have reacted earlier, the warning lights should have flashed as a result of the briefings. When the department first concluded, late but well, a proper assessment was carried out, which we support and fully agree with. The Ministry has concluded that the effect of the transactions is that Anthon B Nilsen Skole drifting AS and ABNU have taken out funds from Westerdal’s Oslo ACT and transferred them to ABNU, contrary to the second paragraph of Section 7-1 of the Law on Higher Education. The Ministry assumed that this relates to the difference between the capital withdrawal of 105 million. kr and deposit capital of Westerdals, NISS and NITH, which are subject to the restriction of the Law on Higher Education. This is a correct assessment, which we once again support and fully agree with. The transactions relating to the merger have been reversed. ABNU has decided to return 20 million. kr that was transferred from NITH to Anthon B Nilsen School Operations AS by purchase of the NISS and Westerdals colleges and cancelled the debt of 85 million. Westerdal's Oslo ACT has to the owner company. In short, the Ministry could and should have reacted to the information provided by Anthon B Nilsen Education AS. The Council of State has deplored this, and in my opinion it is not the basis for the strong criticism that comes with the opposition in the first row.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1219	The system of State grants to private schools and colleges is important to ensure the diversity of different types of institutions for different purposes and different bases in our society. The funds granted annually by the State to these students shall be granted to them. In other words, it shall not be possible to take out this type of funds in the form of profits or in other ways enrich the owners. Here is the law on grants to private schools quite clear. What this matter is about is well described by the rapporteur of the matter, and I am therefore not going to spend time going through it in its full scope. When the Christian People's Party was in favour of open scrutiny in this matter, it was about clarifying the manner in which the Ministry had followed up the Riksrevision's findings on the lack of follow-up of grants to private colleges and private colleges and the recommendation for a special follow-up of the three schools within Anthon B. Nilsen's group. When questions were asked in the media about the legality of the school's capital transfers through the transaction of more than 100 million. kr, it became important for the Christian People's Party to contribute to a hearing where all the facts on this matter could be found. The Christian People's Party has noted the Council's response to questions raised by the Committee during the hearing that in this case the Ministry could and should act differently. The Ministry's follow-up to the case was not in line with what the Riksrevision recommended. Nor was the manner in which this was followed up by the Ministry, in line with what the Committee expressed in its examination of the Riksrevisions Report, Documents 1 for 2014-2015. Here it was clearly underlined a ‘expectation that the weaknesses described in the report on the ministry’s administration will be corrected’. Further: «In any case, the Committee takes the view that there will be a closer follow-up of national centres and the supervision and evaluation of grant schemes for private colleges and specialised schools.» So even though, according to the Council of State, the department had not stopped the follow-up of the school, a separate follow-up was not started, as the Riksrevision recommended. We note that by letter to the Committee of 7 December 2015, the Council of State notes that the Ministry could have asked questions at an earlier stage about the transaction resulting from the merger between the three schools in the Anthon B. Nilsen group. We have every reason to believe that a specific follow-up in line with the Riksrevision's recommendation could have revealed at an earlier date what was later termed a "lawbreaker". The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the majority of the Committee that, in this type of case, the Ministry has a duty of guidance, and that in this case it was clearly not assessed whether this task of guidance should apply in this case. There was no specific follow-up to the schools in this case, a follow-up that would have most likely concluded earlier that what was about to happen through the transaction in connection with the merger was a crime that could and should have been stopped, which we consider to be critical. The follow-up by private schools in recent years has been too weak, as the Riksrevision stresses in its report. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge has set up its own supervision in order to be able to follow up the sector in a new and better way than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1243	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work, and I would like to associate myself mainly with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. The centre party would point out that the Westerdals case shows that it is a demanding regulatory exercise to let go of commercial owners, and then regulate the core of commercial behaviour, namely creating private profit — to put it short and simple. Today's law for state-owned private schools, both in primary and secondary schools, is based on such a regulatory ambition. It may be possible to achieve such an ambition with closer supervision and clearer legislation, but it will necessarily be very resource-intensive. The National Audit Office’s criticism of the Ministry of Knowledge in 2013 shows that they do not adequately govern and follow-up grants to private colleges and private vocational schools. Private actors are, unlike public, profit-seeking. The opening of an arena for private businesses necessarily leads to creative solutions that are easily at odds with the law. Lionskinold, who is the owner here, never took dividends from the schools, which were easy to discover, but carried out a more hidden transfer of values from companies that were subject to the prohibition of the university and higher education law profit to companies that are not subject to this law. The use of such clever detours to achieve profit was something the Ministry of Knowledge should be prepared for in the Westerdals case, for it is not unique. In the view of the Centre Party, the potential gain of an expanded school offer by releasing to owners with commercial motives is not sufficient to defend the resource use that needs to be deployed if this regulatory ambition is to be met. We therefore believe that owners with commercial motives should not be granted State aid for school activities. The recognition of regulatory problems should also have implications for similar regulations — such as the Children's Court Act. The central party believes that the ministry should have stopped the proposed merger with the related capital transfers, but regrettably does not understand why this has not happened. An explanation may be a lack of or unclear information from the company, another may be a lack of competence in the ministry to understand the consequences of the draft terms of merger submitted, and a third explanation may be a political intervention. If the explanation lies in one of the first two options or in a combination of them, this underlines the challenges of regulation in this area, as I have now shown, as it requires special knowledge of financial transactions. The company claims that they provide supplementary information on both the merger plans and their capital effects. They also claim that despite the fact that they have subsequently transformed the capital effects, these were not contrary to the law. The Ministry has subsequently stated that they consider the transactions in money to be a breach of the Law on Higher Education § 7-1 [[2]] «Institutions receiving State grants may not generate economic benefits or otherwise transfer profits to their owner or to its related party.» Any judicial testing of this issue, as we have seen in the commercial school chain Akademiet, will require additional resources from the ministry. It is unclear whether the Ministry did not understand or were not informed of the relevant capital transfers at the time of the submission of information on the draft terms of merger. If it turns out that the department had both information and understood the scope of this information, but did not react to an impending violation of the law, it is gross. If, on the other hand, the lack of response to the draft terms of merger is justified by political intervention, as indicated in the original coverage of the case in the day of business on 31 October 2015, the matter is serious for the current Council of State. While the Council of State consistently refers to the control of routines, in its examination of Document 1 for 2014-2015, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee points out that criticisms are being made about the lack of follow-up of grants to private colleges and colleges, and that the grant schemes have not been evaluated in the last ten years as required by the legislation, see: Inner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth On this basis, the party expressed concerns about the weaknesses found by the Riksrevision in the Ministry’s internal governance and administration, including poor governance and follow-up of the national centres, and in the grant management of private colleges and colleges. In any case, the central party will point out that it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the law is complied with. In addition, there was a special reason for the company to submit merger plans to the Ministry without any action being taken. The Central Party is part of the Committee's majority, in other words, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, which find the behaviour of the Councils critical. Only two comments at the end: The representative of Skutle said that the absence of protests in a meeting in the department is not approval from the department. – Taste it: the absence of protests in a meeting of the Ministry is not approved by the Ministry. I have to say that it is demanding for Westerdals or others to behave this way when that happens – that one should then practice it so that it is not approved. It's very demanding if there's culture in such cases. Furthermore, the representative Skutle said that the performance of Westerdals was not contrary to the law, but nevertheless paid back to the owners, that is Westerdals. That's curative. But here we are at the core, that it is an unclear legal and regulatory code, and the ingenuity of private owners is greater and goes faster – is bigger and goes faster – than the government and big business agrees to. It is a huge challenge that the creativity of the owners is greater and goes faster than the Biggest thing to agree to correct. That's why we have a general problem, which is some of what I've described in the introductory part and in the post I've now made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1276	First of all, I just have to be allowed to comment on the last little bit, because the absence of protests in a meeting is not approval. We can't practice bureaucracy in that way that it's allowed to do something if no one protested in a meeting with any bureaucrats. But enough about it. Let me also thank the President-in-Office for a good and thorough work on the matter and the Committee for a comprehensive round. About $12 billion. kr goes to private high schools in the budget for this year. When questions are then asked about the legitimacy of a larger capital transfer, a transaction of more than 100 million. kr, and after that a number of conditions around it, it is important to go thoroughly into the matter and, according to SV's view, also provide a good and factual basis for holding a control hearing. It turns out that after the 2013 elections, the Ministry of Knowledge has had more meetings with ABN Education, both in general on framework conditions for private institutions, and in particular on the planned high school merger. You can ask questions about whether the Department has provided guidance on the circumstances of this case – not because one should give a prior approval, but to give parties and other stakeholders access to the best possible way of managing their interests. The committee, including SV, believes that the hearing and correspondence with the minister of knowledge clearly shows that there was never a specific follow-up to the schools, and that the department was informed of the events that were later referred to as the ministry's crime, and that probably could and should have been stopped before it came to that point. In my opinion, it is also important and correct that the department could and should act differently when they were briefed on what was going to happen. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State also stated that the Ministry could at an earlier stage have asked questions about the transactions and the manner in which the merger was carried out and followed them up. Finally, in recent years, there have been a number of cases in which private schools, known as fresh and high schools, have had to pay back state subsidies after supervision has revealed that school owners in various ways have taken out the service on the basis of their schooling. Despite strict rules against private profit, private high school owners are able to collect money through corporate structures and transactions between them. An important lesson from this is in my view that the weaknesses of today's model and the costs of supervision mean that one should look at changes in the organisational framework conditions for private schools and private colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1291	This is a matter of primary importance: how do students benefit from state subsidies that we spend on education. I want to repeat and confirm three things that I also said in the hearing. Firstly, this case shows that the public oversight system has not been good enough for a long time, even during the period I have been the Council of State. The second is that the follow-up to one of these matters took too long, and the correct questions were not asked early enough. The third is that this has taught the department. We have e.g. establish a supervised entity that has been provided with resources. We are developing legislation and our own procedures to improve the follow-up of private universities. The very establishment of Westerdals Oslo School of Arts, Communication and Technology – i.e. the merger – has a good purpose and is in line with what the government has wanted for the entire university and higher education sector, namely more solid professional environments to provide education and research of better quality. The owners decided that the establishment would take place through intragroup transactions, which resulted in an accounting gain. There have been several attempts to describe this, but I do not think it is right to describe this as a return in the classical sense. But it is true that it shifts money and values from part of the business that is subject to a dividend prohibition to another part of the business that is not, through that accounting gain and an intragroup transaction. It is also true that for a long time — even long before I joined the State Council — dialogue was between the Department and the relevant higher education institutions. I believe it is an ambition that it should be, that it should be so that actors can come to the ministry, that we can have an open dialogue, but without creating an expectation of clarification that neither can nor should be given over the table. It is true, as it is said here, that the Ministry has no approval authority in respect of mergers of private colleges. Just to underline it quite clearly: it was not as it has been said, that those who were present at these meetings, so that it was about to be committed what is called a crime, but let it happen. That's not how it happened. The Ministry came into being after a thorough review of the transactions after they were completed and reported to the Ministry, that they resulted in money being taken out in breach of the Law on Higher Education. Although the owners did not agree with this, they have reversed this withdrawal. This is where I am very clear that we could and should have asked more questions in the past, and thus the matter could get a faster progress. The second case, which has been dealt with by others and which is not the merger and transaction, but the investigations that have revealed more than one matter in time — partly far back in time — at the former Westerdal School of Communication. The school appears to have provided incorrect information to the Education Directorate and to the Loan Fund, which may have resulted in unjustified school grants and educational support for students. It looks at the Ministry of Knowledge seriously, and follows it up. The Ministry has also reported several relationships with Økokrim. However, I would like to stress that these conditions have not been disclosed or discussed at meetings with the department, so if there is a impression that the department has been informed of matters that have subsequently been reported to the police, that is not correct. Otherwise, we continue to have dialogue with the university. We understand that high school is in a difficult situation. It shall clean up in conditions that are far behind in time. At the same time, we want them to offer good education and involve the students. As I mentioned at the outset, we must learn from this matter, and we have also done so. Among other things, we have establish an entity supervising private colleges and specialised schools, a work that has been too fragmented in the past. Westerdal’s Oslo ACT has been supervised by this oversight unit. Particular attention will be paid to related trade in order to verify whether it has occurred under market conditions. We are also working on legislative proposals and will send them to the Grand Duchy in a very short time. The law on the follow-up of private colleges and colleges is out of date, and it is too bad. The regulatory framework should facilitate supervision and control and facilitate the follow-up of private and vocational schools. So the government has recognised that the public oversight system has not been good enough for a long time, even in my time as a government council, and has put in place a number of measures to ensure that the money we spend on education will benefit the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1315	The National Audit Office had announced that it was necessary to pay particular attention to these schools. The size had given a clear expectation that it would happen, that there was every reason that the department should have a special follow-up of these schools. What makes the Council of State get the signals from the Storting, read the comments from the Riksrevision and thought: Do you know what, this is what we take in the usual evaluation anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1322	The rapporteur has taken a good look at the matter, so the rapporteur also knows that I have answered this well and thoroughly both in correspondence with the committee and in the hearing. As I then explained, the Riksrevision specifically pointed out, relating to the equity situation at a number of private colleges, including Westerdals. Then, in the usual initial round of correspondence, which then takes place between the departments of the department and the National Audit Office, it was said that this would be followed up through the ordinary follow-up procedures. That was announced by the National Audit Office in correspondence in March, to which the rapporteur also referred. That's the case. But then I have also said very clearly in retrospect that here the department should and could both follow up faster, in other words: we should have been more on that matter earlier, and asked more questions about the intragroup transaction earlier, when the information came.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1328	I hear and I acknowledge and praise the retrospective view of the Council of State that we should have done this differently. That's good, and that's absolutely right. But I also have to ask: a department is presented with a presentation of a company that the Stortinget and the Riksrevision have announced that it is worth following, is presented with a PowerPoint presentation called the Group's internal transaction that triggers a gain. What makes you not react at that meeting? I hear the argument that this should have happened – but why didn't it happen? I don't think that's been prepared yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1333	I can understand the question. Just to underline it, everything that happens in the department is my responsibility. But I was not present at these meetings personally. But the reason why this was not seen immediately, is precisely, as I also said in my post, that it is not quite obvious either legally that this is a violation of the law. It is also illustrated by the fact that there is a disagreement between the owners, who made this transaction, and the ministry. This may not be put on the head legally, simply because they have transformed the transaction. But it's a rather complicated manoeuvre they've done, and that's why I also emphasize that it's not like the department put in a meeting, everyone understood that here it was something you'd consider a violation of the law, or suspect that it was, but said, "We're not commenting on this anyway." That's not the situation. But precisely because, after going into the matter more thoroughly, you came to that conclusion, it says something about, in the light of the after-hours, that it could have been done and should have been done earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1338	I would like to thank the Council of State for a real article. The council said it was okay and briefly that the department has not done a good job, nor in the time of the Council of State in the department. It is opinions that honor the Council of State. That's what the majority has called critical, but when the Council of State acts as directly and openly as he has done here, it's exemplary in my opinion. My question is related to what the Council of State said, that it was not a manifest breach of law. I closed my post with the fact that we are in a situation where there is an unclear piece of legislation and regulation, and the ingenuity of those who are actors is greater than what Stortinget is doing and getting a majority for changes in. That is why the simple question is: does the Council of State agree that this is a general problem that we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1345	Let me be quite clear: the Ministry has now concluded that we mean this internal transaction, the way it was done, constitutes a breach of the provisions of the Law on Higher Education. My point was to make it clear that it was not obvious when you met. That is why this matter unfortunately took too long. Then I agree that it is generally challenging to combine state subsidies and private actors. There are some issues where the easiest way to do it is to say freely, full benefits for everyone with state subsidies. It's easy to regulate. The other way is to say that we don't want any private actors at all. Both options, I believe, are bad alternatives, because in several areas, for example. In the case of kindergarten development in Norway, it would be impossible to achieve this without having to go privately. Then we have to remember that the vast majority of actors are good and proper and contribute to the welfare society of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1352	In several areas, we have more actors than public, but what is at the heart of what we are now discussing is private actors that have a purpose to make money. That's what's very demanding to do. I am pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that this is difficult, that we are able to regulate it quickly enough and wide enough from the side of Storting in view of creativity. There is a need for a clear emphasis on whether such actors wish to complete the public and the ideals. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1357	Both I and the government want a variety of offers, both private actors, non-profit actors and public actors. Then I think one must allow oneself to think that in a private higher education sector it is not allowed to take dividends. Neither is it in high school or primary school. The dividend ban has been confirmed and reinforced with the agreement in this room with the new cooperation parties now. It's not a very good capitalist who puts his money for maximum returns into private higher education. This does not mean that there can be no problems there, and the issues arise largely as a result of related trade. It is perhaps the law that is most difficult to regulate. In the Free School Act, which was also voted for by the cooperation parties, we partly solved it by saying that we should show as an actor that it has been done according to market principles, which makes regulation easier than under the previous law on high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1367	The political superstructure in this matter is about our social views and practices relating to private schools, so a few words about this first. Today we have 5-6 pst. private primary schools in Norway. We have dozens of private colleges that get state aid, as far as I know. There are different views on the importance of private schooling. The Labour Party is ringing around the common school, because we want all children and young people to have equal rights to education, regardless of social background. A good school for all is the cornerstone of the Norwegian model. The Labour Party believes it is a strength with a common school where all children and young people meet, regardless of their economic and cultural background in the family. Later in life it will be growing up together and going to school together a priority, and it will underpin the Norwegian model with a flat structure in enterprises and in the workplace. Some private primary schools and secondary schools have, however, been in existence for many years, and the Workers' Party believes that this is right. They represent an important alternative to public schools in the field of life views and pedagogics. These schools receive State aid: 85 pst. the cost of an average school space in public schools. Then they can take a smaller amount of school money, at most the remaining 15 pst. It is appropriate to mention that a few very few private schools receive no State aid, and thus they are in practice completely free when it is, for example, the case. the amount of school money they want to take and other arrangements. So there's a clear distinction between schools that get support and those that live completely without dealing with this. In higher education and vocational education, private schools differ in many ways. The largest higher education institution in economic education in Norway is private. It's BI, and it's also experiencing increasing professional recognition internationally. BI is a self-esteem foundation, on the same line as, for example, The university faculty or Lovisenberg diaconal college. Then we also have private schools owned by private owners through companies, and these owners earn money in school even though there are very clear limits to profit. Westerdals is such a school. Many schools get a lot of state aid. We use approx. 1.2 B.C.E. SEK in grants to private universities in the 2016 budget. The reason why the state supports private schools in higher education and in post-secondary education is that they provide education where there is little, perhaps sometimes no, capacity in the public higher education and university system, or that there is a rather high demand that the private sector is somehow catching up. Westerdals offers e.g. education services in technology, film, arts, communication, etc. But another reason might also be that they have delivered good candidates within e.g. Nursing and teachers of society over very many years. Lovisenberg diaconal college is from 1868 and is such a school. In particular, there are three issues that are important for the Storting: ensuring that public funds going to private higher education go to what they are intended to do, in line with the Law on Higher Education to provide quality assurance of the professional level through accreditation and approval systems; to ensure that their school money goes to what they are meant to do, namely, a good education offer; There is a fundamental scepticism in Norway about using public services as a dairy cow. In a survey where people have been asked about their views on private actors regarding hospital services, elderly care, school, kindergarten and child protection, and their view of profit related to it, a total of 88 pst. by those who have taken a decision on it, restrict or prohibit profit. There is also a clear majority here at Stortinget among Norwegian parties – and we were also shown that in the previous debate in the Chamber – who are opposed to taking out dividends and profits from institutions, and so now it is for schools that receive substantial state aid. Some have argued that profits should be made in school as well. The Council of State, Røe Isaksen, strongly argued that this would be possible, in the context of the programme debate they had in the Right in 2009. Then he wanted the school players to be able to take advantage of the profits and thought that since it can be taken out profit in kindergartens, it makes sense that it is also done in school. The Court’s national meeting concluded with something else. Not a majority would like to have it. There's no popular claim to profit from school. People pay taxes to the community to have access to free education and good health services with low eccentricities. As far as possible, this should lead to good services, not being evaded in sky-high profits. This is about trust – trust that the tax we pay is used for, among other things. education, trust that the state has legislation in place and follow-up of private providers, and the confidence of the students that the school they attend has in place, especially in two circumstances: that the education has a certain quality, and that the school money and what the state pays for actually go to the education they receive. From such a perspective, this issue concerns the following: if we are to have private schools in Norway, and that at all levels of education, we must be sure that there are systems and supervision around this that work, and that we have confidence in it – in the Stortinget and among people. When education becomes a commodity, it requires transparency. For a party and a government that wants more private solutions, there is an extra great responsibility on them to check that this is done in a reassuring way. In this way it is disappointing to see the passivity of the council immediately after he took over the place after SV's Kristin Halvorsen, particularly with a background in the scandal associated with the Bauer schools. 10 years back in time, as well as the big case that has been going on between the State and the Academy relating to whether they have taken out illegal dividends from their private secondary schools. So this is not a new issue in Norwegian school. The national audit assessed private institutions already in 2012. The current political leadership in the Ministry of Knowledge, at Kyrre Lekve, was positive. After the government change, this seems not to have happened. This government went to the choice of action and enforcement. We saw little until the day's business revealed what had happened. We have now heard from the Council of State in its statement in a good manner – there I would like to agree with the representative Lundtigen – and he has addressed it. That's good, but the problem is that it was a little late. I still have two additional comments attached to it. The 2017 State budget announces the establishment of enhanced supervision of private higher education institutions. It shall be left outside the Ministry and shall be paid through reduced grants to all schools. It was an unexpected solution for many, and it suggests a poor dialogue with the affected. Such supervision appears to be necessary in the light of the Westerdals case. But it is not a good development that we are creating more and more bureaucracy to have control and supervision, because of a lack of trust. In addition, we punish economically those institutions that have never been at odds with the law – even though they have been in force since the 1800s – or have tried to win the prize on the crunch. So they get reduced state subsidies because of this, and that's not what I'm talking about. I would rather employ more researchers and more teachers than set up supervisors of different types of subjects. But that's the opposite: it builds up a bigger bureaucracy in education, as in many other areas, although less bureaucracy was one of this government's mantras taking over in 2013. I believe this is an additional argument against the privatisation of the school, along with the facts I mentioned earlier in my article. The more private schools, the bigger the control apparatus needs to be built up. The Westerdals case is the third major case we have had in Norway relating to private schools that have tried to obtain illegal profits. I hope that everyone learns from this case and is much more alert when it comes to private schools, where their motives are about something more than giving a good education to our people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1415	The matter that Stortinget is dealing with now is a very serious matter for two reasons. One reason is that we have a – I would say – recognised Norwegian company with important social actors as owners who have broken Norwegian law. The other side of the case is the one that is discussed in particular, and that's the department's follow-up of it all. I would like to comment on some aspects relating to this debate that I think it is necessary to highlight. One is the comments of the representative Skutle – and others in and on the use of the word ‘critical’. There can be no doubt that the law is broken in this case. Any discussion of the legal understanding of the term ‘profit’ is of intellectual interest only. The word ‘profit’ is quite obviously the right word in this case, and Westerdals immediately understood it when it came out in public that they had taken out 100 million. kr. That was when they paid back – to take the tip of the discussion. Because they immediately realized that they had an independent legal and objective responsibility for having done something wrong. However, there is no approval of the action, of course, but it was what was actually taking place. The fact that we are going to have a political discussion about this is a return or not in this Chamber is very remarkable. Because that's obviously what it is, and it's actually even worse -- it's a clear and deliberate manipulation of the letter and intention of the law. The other side of the case is, of course, what relates to the ministry's behaviour, which has been discussed here. I have heard everything that has been said. I hear you say that you cannot pre-authorise, that you have not pre-authorised because you have not said anything. But you got this information. One knew very well what was the law's provision, and what was the Storting's will: there should not be any basis for dividends. But you could kind of say nothing. So the Council of State says it's affordable, and I mean it properly, that you shouldn't have done that. That is fine, but when some representatives here in the extension of that reasoning say that the term ‘critical’ should not be used, I would reject that argument. I do so on the basis that the Council of State also correctly says – and I say it again, praiseworthy – that this could neither happen nor should it happen. It is then right of the Storting to make that mark to the Council of State and say: This is critical. There is no proposal for the Storting to adopt such criticism, it is a comment, and there is just the appropriate level in this matter. Then I'm quite clear, of course, that the Council of State is responsible for everything. But I still allow myself to say that I do not understand why the agency does not respond. I don't understand what kind of thinking it is in any way, when it's so obvious that you shouldn't get any dividends from school on this basis. I believe that the question of how Westerdals has behaved is a very clear example of how it goes when commercial actors are allowed to operate in social areas with a view to making money. The very best way to prevent this would, of course, have been if the Labour Party's primary policy that that would not happen had been implemented. It would have been the very best. Then we had gotten rid of all these strange discussions. But I understand that it's difficult, and we're not saying it today. The policy of the Workers' Party opens up the possibility of doing so. Nevertheless, it must be quite clear – and I would have said that, because it disappears a little in the discussion here – that it is Westerdals who is primarily the root of this case in the storeroom. They're the ones who've triggered it -- we're criticizing the department, but they've triggered it. They've done it through what I said, a deliberate manipulation of the law to achieve a profit. As members of the Control Committee, we are constantly experiencing the use of legal wording and legal crumbs to cover wrong political actions. We experience it on a case-by-case basis. I have to say, after seven to eight years in the control committee, that it is quite worrying that both the Norwegian Parliament, the civil service and the administration are so much exposed to exactly this legal manipulation. It's very worrying, and it creates a reduction of the elected power that I'm very, very afraid of. We've also seen that right over here. The ministry came to the senses and gathering – that’s good – and went to the police with the matter, or with parts of it. It's also fine, but it shows what challenges we have when we have to go to the Public Prosecutor's Office to do what is Storting's intention with our education system. Here it is absolutely necessary that we are fundamentally on guard together, both in the ministry and in the big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1430	I'm not going to spend a very long time at the end, but there's a couple of things with the previous speakers that have to be taken care of. Let's start with the last post from the representative of Kolberg, who says there can't be any doubt that here the Norwegian law is broken. All other discussions are of intellectual interest. For me, the principle of power distribution is not of intellectual or academic interest. It's one of the most important things we have, that you have a legislative assembly, a judicial power and a executive power that is independent of each other. Now it looks like this case will not be tried before the court, but think if it had been. Imagine if the ABN group had said, "We believe this transaction is still legal, and we'll try it in court." So it's in Stortinget's position that it's a crime, and the head of the control committee is standing on the pulpit and saying that there's no doubt that Norwegian law is broken. Do you have an independent court to deal with that matter? I think I'll just leave that question hanging. One thing is that the representative of Kolberg as a private person can think that Norwegian law is broken, or that there have been irregularities here, but we have to take care of our role. It is not our job to conclude whether the law is broken or not. I must say that I do not think I should go unnoticed. Then there were also a few other things in the representative Kolberg's posts I want to get hold of. The representative of Kolberg said that the department was given this information with all clarity. What information did they get? Well, they got information that there was going to be a merger with certain transactions internally in a private group. So it was not like there were representatives from a private college who came up in the department and said, hey! We want to take dividends, is that okay? Then it would obviously have been that the directive had gone down, and the department should have said, "No, it's not allowed, and according to our instructions, we'll inform you about it." It was a complicated message with complicated juss. To underline this, the law firm Thommess, one of the country's largest and most recognized law firm, believes that that transaction is still legal, and the ABN group believes that this transaction is still legal. So the fact that it's obvious that the department should have realized that this was clearly an illegality that it was raised beyond any doubt that was going to happen, I think is an unreasonable conclusion. What the department said was, we can't give an approval or a law check of this verbally over the table just because you show a PowerPoint presentation. If you want an approval or an assessment of whether this is lawful or not, you will receive a written enquiry, which at my best discretion is normal in such a situation. Then it was not done. No assessment was made. Then it was checked afterwards, and it was found that it was a transaction they thought could be illegal. The transaction was reversed. The representative of Kolberg also believes that the use of the word ‘critical’ is quite reasonable in the matter. I don't think we'll agree on that. Of course, it's the opposition's privilege to use that expression when they think it's reasonable. I am not going to spend a long time on it, but I would like to remind you that the last time we used these expressions about the conduct of a Council of State – in the form of decisions, but the same expression: the Council of State has acted critically in this matter – is therefore in the 22nd of July, the Mongstad case and the asylum child case, as we all know. So there are things that are in a completely different league, that have a completely different scale, completely different things, and now you're using that expression on this thing. I think that's unreasonable. But that's okay, of course, it's the opposition's privilege to make their judgements on these matters. Then there were a couple more things. It was drawn up by the representative, Mr Becquerad, on the examination of Documents 1 for 2014-2015 that the Committee's comments included the need to improve the supervision of the activities of private higher education institutions. But it is a report that was dealt with by Stortinget in 2016, and it resulted in its own supervision. If the representative of Aasen was against that supervision, perhaps her party should not vote in favour of the remark that resulted in the ministry having to set up a supervision to question it. I think I'm going to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1453	I take the floor because I was a little stunned by the committee chairman's interpretation of the fact in this matter, but also a little when it came to his general assessment of the place of the Storting and the place of administration in the state of law. I take the same approach as the previous speaker took, namely that it was found by the representative of Kolberg that there can be no doubt that the Norwegian law is broken. Then you can have a private opinion about what you can have a prognosis. It's also quite natural that the department can have a sense of it, because they're a party. But it is the case in a state of law that those who are subjected to such criticism may disagree with it. In this case, it is the duty and task of the courts to assess independently, without directives from either the ministry or the magnificence, what the specific case is in relation to the rules adopted by the Stortinget. That's where the function distribution comes in. The size is expressed by law, by general legal norms. When, in the specific case, there is disagreement as to how these standards are to be applied in the individual case, it is up to the administration, if it has been given jurisdiction in a specific area – we have many examples of this – or independent courts. I think that the rhetoric of the representative of Kolberg was interesting – if you want to have examples of how, under other social conditions, politics and justice work together, how to get a political court where you find very simply what is fact, and where you move on to the inner life of the actors, by telling them what they have had. That's pretty neat. There are even television programmes, television programmes, which deal with this kind of thing, and with what is happening at the internal level. But this does not suit the National Assembly. I also think it's worrying that it's the head of the Control and Constitutional Committee. And here I say the whole name on the committee because -- that's right, we act on the basis of control -- we're also a Constitutional Committee, which itself has to be aware of the rules of the game that are, and that transforms political life. I also want to add that what is referred to as legal manipulation – or juss at all – covers wrong policies. That's how you experience it as a politician when you're in a state of law, because then there's the rules of the game, the rules of the law, which are supposed to protect individuals from getting such judges tossed over the table, as they got in this post. So I think I've deepened my point so far. I noticed that the representative Kolberg also commuted between whether the Labour Party's policy would ensure that such problems would disappear from the surface, understanding that they would ban all schools that were anything but state-owned, but fortunately he commuted back. He may have been reminded – in the discussion with himself – that the Workers' Party has also allowed non-governmental actors to run some schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1471	I would like to thank the Committee for a thorough and factual debate and also the Council of State for its informative, clear submissions. I take the floor not only to sum up the debate and because I think it's fun to stand here, but to say something. There are two aspects that have been raised in the debate to which I would like to make a few comments. One is the use of the term «crime». There's no committee majority taken up by a hat. It's a word that the department itself has used. So that's the one. The second is, why did the majority of the committee think that this was something that deserved to be called 'critical'? We know that the word 'critical' in the common language and in our own daily speech is something other than the parliamentary use of it. I know that. I was on the control committee when we dealt with the 22nd of July case, for example. As rapporteur of the case, I believe, and the majority of the committee believes it, that the word ‘critical’ was the right word to use here. We mean that, and to go into that reasoning, you could say, what is state aid, really? Well, state aid is the labour money of people in this country, and it's our job to make sure that the work money goes to what they're going to do. We have to make sure that they are placed incorrectly. I believe that one of the most important tasks we have here and the government has is to make sure that when someone gives us confidence in managing our common wallet, we have to make sure that it is done properly. That's what the Riksrevision told me. That's what the Stortinge told me. It was not done until afterwards. That's all reason to believe, as the representative of the Christian People's Party so nicely explained here, that the situation would be different if you had listened to the Riksrevision, if you had followed the decision on the big shot. If you had heard and seen, among other things. according to their own regulations and complying with the obligation to provide information, it may be that we would be in a different situation now. I also have to say that having a decision that is critical and using the word "critical" is two different things. A critical decision, which was correctly used during the 22nd of July, and what Anders Anundsen used during the treatment of the so-called asylum child, are two very different things. I don't think this is as serious as July 22nd. No one thinks so. That is why it has not been dealt with in this way, and that is why we have not used the word «critical» in the decision either, but we have described this event and the behaviour of the department as critical, because we believe it was critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1500	The purpose of this administrative audit has been to find out why so many applicants from secondary vocational education programmes in the period 2011–2015 do not receive an offer of just that — apprenticeship. More than half of the applicants entering secondary school opt for a professional qualification and more than 9,000 applicants did not receive an apprenticeship in 2015, which amounts to 30 pst. by all applicants. In 2012, the social contract for several apprenticeships was submitted by the social authorities and social partners. An important objective of this agreement was to increase the number of new apprenticeship places by 20 pst. by 2015. While the increase in apprenticeship contracts has been of 8 pst. in total during this period, the number of applicants has increased the more. This reduces the number of applicants for apprenticeship. Although the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education are responsible for achieving the objective of increasing the number of apprenticeships, it is the county councils that are responsible for fulfilling the promise of higher education and working to provide pupils with learning places to apprentices. The survey shows that the recruitment needs of each enterprise are the main factor in dimensionalising the number of apprenticeships. It also appears that training provision and the dissemination of applicants are insufficiently adapted to the needs of the labour force. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision is of the opinion that the Ministry of Knowledge should strengthen and develop the use of State tools to increase the number of apprenticeships and that they have made the following recommendations to the Ministry: assess how the use of the instrument can be developed to support the work of county municipalities; assess tools and measures to strengthen national and county community work on recruiting new apprenticeships, and to contribute to attracting more apprentices to established apprenticeships; A broad majority of the Committee has agreed to these considerations. The Committee also points out that some of the reasons why the recruitment needs of apprentices in some regions have not increased may be that enterprises have not had a job or need during this period due to economic conditions. The National Audit Survey among apprenticeships and potential apprenticeships points to several factors that can contribute to apprenticeships: better organisation and more information and guidance. On the basis of surveys, the situation is summarised: Ten municipalities say they are not implementing any measures to actively disseminate information about applicants. Two thirds of county municipalities have not themselves identified the potential for new apprenticeships in their own country. 15 out of 19 county councils say that they mainly leave the recruitment work in their own county to the training offices, but 40 p.m. by the training offices in these 15 counties respond that they do not carry out any particular recruitment work. In addition, half of the county councils do not carry out information and placement campaigns to provide more apprenticeships. Nearly half of the private enterprises without apprenticeship schemes respond that they would probably take in apprentices if they received direct or more information about the scheme. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision believes that this suggests that in many counties there is not a sufficiently active and systematic effort to recruit new apprenticeships. A large majority of the Committee agrees with this assessment and would stress the importance of following up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. There is also a large majority of those who believe that the work of the county council on the dimensioning of the number of school places in vocational training, the recruitment of new apprenticeships, the dissemination of applicants to apprenticeships and the follow-up of apprenticeships should be much better. As the top national authority, the Ministry needs to develop tools and measures to enable county municipalities to do their part of the work. In its response, the Council of State refers to a series of ongoing actions undertaken by the Ministry of Knowledge, which are directed towards the labour and schools in order to increase the number of places, such as the new social contract for several places of learning, to which I referred in the course, and to continue the training office for state activities. The Committee has expressed its agreement with the Council of State that there are no other fields in the field of education which are so rapidly affected by changes in the business cycle and in the labour market in other areas such as vocational and vocational training and that this area will always be subject to changes, changes and developments. There is also an overall committee which points out that more than one third of the enterprises in a survey respond to the fact that more information, training and cooperation conditions with other enterprises can provide more apprenticeship places, and agrees with the Riksrevision that increased use of these tools may be useful in increasing the number of apprenticeship places, including in private business. Once again, the Committee will stress the responsibility of the Department to follow up this important work so that the State and the business community can take in more apprentices than they do today, so that society and the students can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1563	Our country still needs – and as far as we can see – skilled labour in many disciplines. Since we are a nation with a high degree of specialisation, it also requires more and more knowledge at a high level of our skilled workforce in order for us to be competitive in the future, and so that we can maintain the jobs and also offer our descendants work. As there is a wide disparity between the number of high school students taking vocational education and the availability of apprenticeships in enterprises, increasing the number of apprenticeships needs to be intensified. The National Audit Office's study in this case highlighted that the recruitment needs of individual enterprises are the main obstacle to increasing the number of apprenticeships, and that the provision of training and the dissemination of applicants is not adequately adapted to the needs of the workforce. It is the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education that are responsible for achieving the goal of increasing the number of apprenticeships, but it is the school owners who are responsible for fulfilling the right to secondary education and working to provide apprenticeships to the apprenticeships, and thereby working towards the existence of the apprenticeships that need apprentices. It can be seen from the report that the recruitment of apprenticeships has not been a high enough priority. This was also underlined by the former Control and Constitutional Committee, which at the time considered that the State had to give the county councils the opportunity to fulfil the responsibility of securing more places of learning. I am referring to the fact that according to the National Audit Office, there is a lack of responsibility locally for this important work. And I agree with the Riksrevision that the Ministry should strengthen the use of government instruments to increase the number of apprenticeships, through, among other things. to assess how the use of tools can be developed to support the work of county municipalities, and to assess tools and measures to strengthen national and county authorities' work on recruiting new apprenticeships, and to contribute to the success of established apprenticeships. Several county municipalities are not paying too much attention to the structure and level of employment in their own country in increasing the number in ordinary learning places. It is critical that there are so many differences between county councils, as well as that many county councils do not seem to take their responsibilities seriously as school owners and for the dissemination of teaching places. With regard to the creation of adequate apprenticeships for secondary school students, the Progress Party agrees with the Council of State that there is no other field of education that is so rapidly affected by the cyclical fluctuations and changes in the labour market as vocational training and that this area is always in transition and development. This is therefore an extra demanding area to improve in relation to other sectors. However, the Progress Party considers that more information, training and cooperation conditions with other companies can provide more apprenticeships and agrees with the National Audit Office that a reinforced use of these tools may be useful for increasing the number of apprenticeships, including in the private sector. Finally, I would like to highlight the department's responsibility for following up this important work, so that the state and the business community can take in more apprentices than they do today, and that both society and the students can benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1580	In these days, there is a lot of talk about efficiency improvement and efforts to prevent so-called waste. In the cases of the Riksrevision which the Control Committee has been dealing with this autumn, it is about the really serious waste – waste of human resources. What is really worse and more wasted for a society than letting 17-year-olds go without doing anything? What's worse for a 17-year-old than to feel that you're not wanted in the workplace? What makes parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles more desperate than to sit helpless and watch that it happens? According to the Riksrevision, it happens. The National Audit Office’s report shows the lack of follow-up of young people who fall out of secondary education and the lack of efforts to provide apprenticeships. The fact that this is also closely linked to the other two reports from the National Audit Office this fall, on social dumping and crime at work, I should not go into anything specific now, except to say that social dumping and crime at work do not lead to young people getting a place of learning or facilitating their integration into a decent Norwegian working life. The National Audit Office’s survey of the follow-up to non-training and work youth shows the following: Of those who started in secondary education in 2009, 71 were in post-secondary education. completed after five years, only 58 pst. of the professionals selected, and 83 pst. by those who chose the study preparation. The question is, what happens to the rest? That is the question that the Riksrevision has asked. Do they get enough follow-up from the follow-up service or from the Nav offices? The answers must be strictly said to be no, all the time the main found Riksrevision has done is: There is a wide variation in the quality of the follow-up of young people who have discontinued secondary education. Few of these young people are in action that includes curriculum objectives. Cooperation between different actors on the overall follow-up of these young people is not working well enough. Therefore, an overall committee must note that – and I read from the vote – ‘there is still a significant room for improvement and that early contact with young people is an important prerequisite for avoiding inaction and early action’. We have national targets. They say that everyone should complete secondary education and be able to continue their studies or go to work. We have the division of labour. The implementation responsibility for ensuring national targets is municipal, while the Ministry of Knowledge has the overall responsibility to ensure that national targets are met. The Ministry of Knowledge has put in place various efforts to strengthen the follow-up of youth outside training and work by the county: training of staff, the so-called New GIV project and the programme for better implementation. We believe, of course, that it is important to continue this work, but just as fully: more can and must be done. Young people looking for a Nav office need a faster follow-up. The Ministry of Knowledge must ensure that the follow-up is good. Nav actions must aim to enable young people to complete secondary education. This means, for example: the need for the Nav system to have competence in youth and to give priority to youth. Follow-up, labour market measures and employment services must be tailored to get young people into work. When young people interrupt the course of education, the obligation of county councils and Nav today to follow up must function in such a way that young people are helped to return to education or work. The National Audit Office’s report indicates that this does not happen to the majority of young people. It's serious. As we know, young people – like other people – are different. They come in all shapes and with different starting points. The cases of mental illness, as we know, are one of the main causes of lost years of work, disability and sick leave, for example. increased in the youngest age group, aged 16–24, and is now a major challenge. Prevention of depression in young people is therefore a bet that would pay off. Another is increased physical activity, which applies to all ages. The majority point to the need to involve the school health service in work if young people are to return to education. These clearly documented conditions must be taken into account for measures to be taken by the Ministry. However, addressing different young people with different needs is probably primarily about doing something about what the Riksrevision points out: a lack of coordination of efforts for the follow-up of young people with complex needs — lack of coordination. Cooperation between different national, municipal and county services, such as health and health services — where appropriate child protection and pedagogical-psychological services — must work if young people with special needs are to receive the assistance they need. I also believe that the government must make it clear who has the coordination responsibility when young people need interdisciplinary services, or when the follow-up of young people is not just ‘good enough’. Unfortunately, the drop-out in secondary education is not a new issue. Unfortunately, the number has also been constantly high over many years. That tells me there's no trick for the solution. I believe the Riksrevision has made good points. We believe the department must follow up. There is also a clear message to the county council, which has the implementing responsibility to do more. I also want to add, for my part, that the government and the Storting should probably go deep into matter to find out if a solution is completely different from where it is usually searched, if it is, for example. is the funding of secondary schools which do not provide enough restraint for the county to hold students at school, or, for that matter, vice versa. We would prefer to prevent the drop instead of repairing it. Everything should be done – we need all the young people we're so lucky to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1613	In the financial debate, I talked a little bit about the professions and criticized the government for a lack of commitment to them and said that the government promised a promise and delivered a bluff. The representative who was just up here said that there is waste of human resources, and I fully agree with that. It was also mentioned that too many people do not carry out professional activities, and that is also true. So we're also going to have a perspective: there was a report by the SSB in November that says that in 2035 we will lack 30,000 with a health and social background. We're going to be short of approx. 50000 in construction. We will lack 20,000 nurses – which is something else, of course – and 30,000 teachers. In addition, we might have a profit of 150,000 who have studied economics, administration and humanities. And we're going to have that as a back carpet. This report from the Riksrevision points to a number of factors that show that there are too few students in the field of vocational training who are given apprenticeships. In fact, the proportion has fallen, as there have been several applicants. So there's too few places. An apprenticeship place is as well-known alpha and omega for completion in a vocational letter. The provision of vocational training must reflect the needs of the labour market, and therefore contact with industry and the work of the professional councils is very important. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: posted Message. St. 20 for 2012–2013, Straightway, to the ground. In the context of this message, important decisions were taken in the spring of 2013 for the professions on the initiative of the red-green government – and with the strong support of the current government. I find that now, three and a half years later, we have still not changed the offer structure. The content of the curricula has not changed, although there has been cooperation between the social partners and the nine professional councils to investigate this. The county councils are not able to handle exchange models, and there are percentages fewer who are given apprenticeships than before. The review of the National Audit Office clearly shows that, apart from an honorable adjustment of the apprenticeship grant, the government does not give priority to the professions. Rather, the government's focus has been to merge colleges over a low shoe, change the funding system for the university and higher education sectors, and separate experienced teachers and send them on course. Professionals are not given priority. Why is there no pressure on changes in curricula, and why is the professional correction of the common subjects so small? Why are not the requirements of county councils to offer exchange models strengthened and facilitated, and why has the government not provided full pressure to provide new learning places? To the list of non-initiatives for the professional subjects, I can add that there has been no review of the training office and their task versus the responsibility of the county council. This is one of the points criticised in the report. Who has and who takes responsibility for communicating and contributing to students getting an apprenticeship? Today, too many county councils lose responsibility for students as soon as they finish school and allow training offices to take over responsibility. That doesn't make it teach places. The Committee points out that two out of three county municipalities have not themselves identified the potential for new apprenticeships in their own country. 15 out of 19 counties leave the recruitment work to the training offices, 40 p.m. of these again say that they are not engaged in the recruitment work to a particular extent. Half of the county councils also do not carry out information and placement campaigns to provide more apprenticeships, although half of the private enterprises without apprentices respond that they might have taken in if they knew more about the scheme. This is simply not good enough, either by the county councils or by the government. But there are points of light – and places where one can pick up inspiration. Now I hope the Council of State will listen well, because I'm going to tell you about such a point of light, namely from my own region, Hadeland. In the municipality of Grane lies Hadeland secondary school. It covers the need for the three municipalities in the region, with approx. 30,000 inhabitants. According to the state report of the Uppland County Municipality, which came out this week, the distribution of apprenticeships in Hadeland is 99 pst. There is a great deal of commuting in our region, so the labour market is not much stronger than elsewhere. But what are they doing in Hadeland? Well, first of all, Uppland County has employed professional motivational staff. One in 100 pst was hired. position on Lillehammer and one in 100 pst. position on Hadeland. This position will now be continued by Hadeland High School itself, in fear that the county will remove it due to poor economy. The principal and assistant principal are constantly working on lifting the professions. The municipalities of Gran and Lunner have taken a particularly high responsibility, in particular in the field of health and child labour, for adding apprentices. Teachers work continuously to motivate learning places – to students, to the municipality and to the business community. Businesses also receive guidance. The Training Office, the School and the Municipalities are now working on a new collaboration to extend their cooperation to other subjects. From the moment the students come to Vg1, the school thinks the entire four-year course. For example, building and civil engineering at Vg2 has already delivered a list before Christmas, where it seems that all students are guaranteed a place of learning for the next harvest. The National Audit Office also points out that students with professional or social challenges are particularly vulnerable to not being taught. In Hadeland, the school and the motivator know before Christmas who in Vg2 is going to have trouble getting a place to study. Those involved are allowed to take part in the workshop and actions are put in place to practice what needs to be done. And there's not just grades that apply. For example, they must: practice drying to call people, follow up applications, etc. At school in 2016, there were 17 people who did not have a place to study, but who said yes to follow-up, and their grades were good enough. Then the school held an apprenticeship where you learn to be an employee. This was held at the same time as the air was drained from the cushions under the arms of the students. The students are being surveyed, and there is an active job towards a place of learning. The professional motivation is followed up by those who receive training, once during the week – i.e. outside the company – and continues to train with the student and guide the company at the same time. Of the 17 people who had no place to study in the autumn, everyone has written a contract of study as close as one. I hope the government will be inspired by the job done in Hadeland. The National Audit Office notes that the government has not prioritised the professional subjects of this period, despite the fact that it has tried over the last three years to create an impression of a high level of involvement. It is serious that the government today is helping to lure half of our young people into an education that they cannot complete. It's very serious and a waste of human resources, as I said earlier. The history of Hadeland shows that real commitment is needed in order to produce results. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee on Budgets' alternative draft budget, in which we have allocated 368 million. and have a number of concrete measures that are important to achieve a real professional boost. We are impatient about the follow-up to decisions — the decisions taken by the Stortingen three and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1646	Norway needs many more skilled workers in the future, in many sectors, but I should like to focus in particular on the public sector. When I read this national audit report, I was quite stated, because for many years it has been a topic – over and over again – what it is going to be, and what to do. And when the main findings of the report are that the government has not prioritised the work of recruiting new apprenticeships high enough, it is a serious warning. When I read this, we immediately took note of it and followed it up in our proposal for an alternative budget and in the municipal committee, where the economy of the municipalities and county councils lies, because it is a very important aspect of this that we ensure that there is consistency. We in the Municipal Committee are also responsible for central government. Then it is also important that central government is a good educational enterprise. Divi and Statsbygg have now demanded 5 pst, respectively. and 7 pst. the work carried out on contracts for these stages shall be carried out by apprentices. Therefore, SV in the budget has now tried to obtain a claim that this should apply to the entire state activity where it is natural for them to enter into contracts. But I have to say, unfortunately, that it is only the Central Party that has supported this proposal so far – that we must follow up on what has been started by Digi and Statsbyg. If a large organisation like the state does not sea secure apprentices as many as possible, it will be difficult. Then you have to make sure of it in your own operations, but also in your assignments, because it's a very big financial muscle state has, and you can use it for, among other things. ensuring that there are more than one apprenticeship place in the private enterprises that deliver different types of assignments and deliveries to the country. So it's currently a poor follow-up to this national audit report in that area. In the municipal sector, it has a major future need for skilled workers in many areas — health professionals, child and youth workers and a number of others. You can then ask yourself if they are now offering a sufficient number of apprenticeships to meet their own needs in the future. I think the answer is a resounding no. And then we can think about why it's like this. I think there are a lot of explanations for that. But I have sailed working in municipal activities, in kindergarten. At the time, there were no skilled workers, but there was a very pressure from other types of professional training that should have their practice there. That's the way it is in very many of the municipal health and care institutions. This means that there is a very high pressure on those who are already going to run training, practice guidance, etc. in those institutions. In addition, there is a slightly different situation in the public sector than in private enterprises, where the enterprise will earn some of the work done by the apprentices. They can fund the apprentice with that. In the public sector, they do not have such revenues. They only have payroll costs, and it is completely unreasonable and undisputed to cancel regular employees to take in apprentices. That's why we're going to have to look at what we can do with this, because it's quite clear that the seas of apprentices or practice candidates can also contribute a lot of good work in the municipal institutions, there's no doubt that, in sum, this is also a pretty big extra job for employees who are going to follow this up. When we also look at the enormous need it will be in the future to get, for example. health professionals in the care of the community sector — many of whom are currently moving in that direction looking ahead very quickly, for example. Nursing – we have a serious problem with getting enough apprenticeships, recruiting enough apprentices and keeping the skilled workers there. In the position of the municipal committee, we have proposed that we ask the government to decide to ‘change the system of grants for apprentices so that non-profit and non-commercial municipalities can receive increased grants for apprentices’ – just to get a motivation to do so, because there is no benefit for apprentices, such as private enterprises. I think you should definitely look at this, go into it and figure it out. It is absolutely necessary that we have many more apprentices in place in the municipal sector, and it is difficult to imagine that this can be done without strengthening the economy, either through the apprenticeship system or through other grant schemes. From our point of view, we have now found it right that this should be done through the apprentice grant itself, so that's what the municipalities get, a little better funding from the state, to participate in. We in SV have taken this national audit report seriously. There are also many other aspects of the report that are important and that several of the speakers before me have been involved, so it is not to be demeaned for the other points, which also need to be given future attention, such as: the work of the county councils to maintain close contact with many educational establishments. This is also one of the reasons why SV has increased the county budget by 150 million. This is precisely because – and for that reason – you need to be able to work better with the apprenticeship system, to have better contact with business and to provide more apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1667	First, I would like to congratulate the Riksrevision, the head of Per-Kristian Foss, who continues to show that it takes responsibility for what is not working – or that works poorly – in society, with a targeted job and points to one area after another, which is of great benefit to our job here in Stortinget. Thank you very much! This case shows that this is serious. It shows that there is a need to call a warning. Now the situation is that 9 000 applicants did not receive apprenticeship in 2015, which is 30 pst. by all applicants. It's said that the proportion is going down. Still, it goes the other way. As stated in the option: ‘This reduces the percentage of applicants for apprenticeship.’ And what are we talking about? Well, we're talking about young people who are at the beginning of their lives, who are at the beginning of their working life, where, through their work, you're going to make money to live off, and the situation is like that. I am very grateful for the performance of the National Audit Office and for the fact that the Committee takes the matter very seriously. I am pleased that more from other committees are also taking part in the debate, and I hope that the members of other committees will be more involved in the debates of the Control Committee, in the fields relating to them. Here, a completely different learning process has to be introduced. The consequences of what the Riksrevision and the Control Committee point out must be taken into account in the work being done in the committees, where to look forward to. It is of great importance that the Committee which now receives the most attention is the Committee which has to look back, while what is needed is the greatest attention of the committees to be seen in the future, which must point to the necessary changes. Okay, that was a cross of thought. Here responsibility is distributed to both the Ministry of Knowledge, the Directorate of Education and the county councils, as school owners. It's a responsibility here that doesn't work well. The main feature of the report is that the recruitment need is the most important, and it is very demanding. And the provision of training and the dissemination of applicants is not adequately adapted to the need for labour. I want to say that the county councils have very different practices, and have not done the job to identify the skills needs and opportunities of the local business community. And what the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien mentioned, about the experience of Hadeland, is a good example of the fact that if you have engaged people, who take it seriously, you can, despite all the problems and all the resistance, get results – if you have professionals who almost see it as a task of life. It's a cross of thought that what we're talking about here is mostly young people who are interested in practical professions, and that's where it fails so dramatically. There is once again a question of not having to change clearly the emphasis from universities to practical vocational training, because it is where the greatest weaknesses in the education system appear to be in many ways. As regards the recruitment needs, the Centre Party has its own comment on this. It is very difficult to provide all these young people with a job where training can be provided at the same time, when there is a situation of free movement of labour between Norway and countries with completely different pay and working conditions. It is a great cross-section of thought that what is now happening in the workplace is that more and more people are being associated with temporary employment and recruitment agencies, which make it more difficult, not least for the weakest of those who work in Norway, to get the training and work you need. The center party is repeating this, because it's a fact. And the parties that try to put cork on that development, which is really harmful to Norwegian work, will fail in it, because here you have to stop the fermentation process – to use that expression. The basic reasons need to be addressed. And if you continue to have a system of least labour immigration, it conflicts with the possibilities of providing this group of young people with a good education. I would therefore just like to end by saying that the responsibility of the elected representatives, as in the county councils, is absolutely central. It must also be a warning to the county councils and the elected members of the county councils to put the matter on the agenda. We have to figure out the measure of the individual state and how we want to move forward in order to bring down the figures that the Riksrevision has produced for us, so that it becomes an offer to all those who need a place of learning that we're talking about here. It must be placed on the agenda of the county councils, so that everyone in their place does. In addition, it is said that State instruments need to be upgraded. This is not achieved without the state instruments being upgraded financially, so that you can compensate for the difficulties in working life, when you have a situation – as I said – with the freest possible immigration of labour, which means that a number of immigrants take the jobs that would otherwise be possible for the apprenticeships and the apprentices we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1691	It's a thorough report the Riksrevision has given us. It is based on comprehensive data and says something about the apprenticeship situation from 2011 to 2015. There is no doubt that with today's system we are losing many potential skilled workers. What the Riksrevision does very often, is to look at what the Big One's intention is – what is the Big One's ambition to achieve? And what is the reality? The truth is that there is not one single party on the Stortinget that ever means that not the goal is for everyone who wants it to have an apprenticeship, to complete their education. So the question is, do we have the tools and the tools to do? And another question: are we using the tools and the tools that are needed? I'll get into both. I note that the Committee in its position stresses that although the Ministry of Knowledge has the overall responsibility for the Stortinget, it is the county councils that are responsible for fulfilling the right to secondary education. I agree. But there's also some of the challenges with our system. For example, there can be no doubt that there is a much greater need for the dimensioning of offers in many states than what we see today, in other words, that school classes are created based on the number of apprenticeships you assume to be able to obtain. It has the disadvantage that some students may have a lower priority choice than their first choice, but it has the great advantage of better matching the one the youth is looking for, with the society that actually needs, and also the apprenticeships. I can talk to the county councils about it, and I can discuss it with the county councils, but is there any way for it in today's system? No, it's not directly. In its study, the National Audit Office shows that a majority of municipalities have neither an overview of potential apprenticeships nor work actively to recruit new apprenticeships. I strongly support the idea that we should have decentralised solutions in Norway and that we should also have great autonomy at administrative levels below the national level. Nevertheless, it is obvious that the job is not done well enough. I agree when the National Audit Office calls for more active and systematic work on the part of the county councils, and I will, of course, come back to what we are going to do on the part of the state. There are some things we're contributing to getting more jobs. We have signed a new social contract with the social partners. The goal of it is to push more of the responsibility down locally, to make tripartite cooperation work better, to get more apprenticeship places there as well. Local networks shall be established to recruit more than one apprenticeship. We have also created a digital tool to help counties, businesses, training offices and students find potential apprentices locally. We have launched a renewal of the supply structure for the professional sector, simply because it turns out that several of the offers we have had in the professional field, several of the professional programmes, are not a demand for out-of-work. The labour market is changing all the time, while the structure of reform 94 is quite stable. One of the consequences of Reform 94, at good and bad, was the creation of broader study programmes, the intrusion of more theory, and thus less specialization early in school. Vocational training needs to respond better to the needs of the labour market. That is why we are working on it now, and finally proposals for a new structure are sent at public consultation to spring. Then, of course, we've also spent the time we need, because the parties have to be included. The representative from the Central Party is impatient, and I can understand that, because I am too, but one of the positive and negative aspects of tripartite cooperation in Norway is that you have to take the time to talk. In fact, you have to listen and let the parties have their processes, for example. through the professional advice. We amended the Public Acquisitions Act in 2015. This increased the requirement for the use of apprentices to win public tenders. On 1 January 2017, the regulation will regulate how the law is practised. It will then come into force, and the Riksrevision believes that this can also be a contribution to providing more apprenticeship places. So when you look at the apprentice companies, it's not just money they say is the main reason they don't have apprentices. In fact, it's getting pretty low on the list. Nevertheless, it is not immaterial that the apprenticeship allowance has increased in our period by a total of 17 500 kroner per contract. As of the next year – after the budget agreement – NOK 2 500 will be added to it again. It must be allowed to remind you that in the last two periods the grant to apprentices was price-adjusted, that's good and good, but there was no increase. An additional problem is that downtime in some industries can lead to more lay-offs and lay-offs. Now it should be said that Norwegian business, of which large parts are actually very good at taking responsibility for future recruitment, does not think as short-sighted as it is sometimes produced as, but is concerned at protecting apprentices and future workers as best they can. It has proved to be both in the South and in the West. Nevertheless, the government has found it important and proper to provide an additional grant – 15 million. NOK 30 million. 2017 kr – so that apprentices who for some reason are given a break from training can quickly get a new place to learn. Now this is a debate in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, following a report from the National Audit Office. I must nevertheless be allowed, since in a few of the speeches, in particular from the representative of the Central Party, Tingelstad Wøien, a slightly larger discussion on the professional subjects was brought up, to address it as well. It is very good that after eight years of red-green government there came a big message about the professions. That's good. It came to the palate of the red-green period. It was also a very good project that was started in the red-green period, called FYR, which was about the professional correction of the common subjects. It's been very successful, and it works. But when was the letter of practice legalized? That's it. When was the apprenticeship grant increasing — increasing and increasing again? That's it. When was there a tightened apprentice clause coming? That's it. When was the work on the new offer structure started and sent out? That's it. When was the work started on new curricula so that we can finally get our own curricula for the vocational programmes, and thus our own exams? That's it. When was the launch of a professional teacher’s lift, among other things? with recruitment scholarships to recruit more vocational teachers, with their own training offers for the many who have long and good practical experience but do not have the pedagogics to teach? Was it in the previous two periods? No, that's it. When was there a post-school lift and a post-school message coming? In the last government period there was an investigation. When was the promise coming? That's it. When was there a separate state strategy, that is to say, for the area that we as government control, so that the state should take in more apprentices and make demands on the state's businesses about it? Was it earlier? No, that's it. So I have to say in all modesty that I do not recognize that this government and this majority of cooperation have not done anything for professional and professional training. I want to say that we've done a lot. Have we done enough of this, and are we in the end? No, in no way, because there's still a lot to do, both with content, with quality and with getting more apprenticeship places. Finally, a small consideration: I believe that we are now activating many of the nodes. The tools we have for getting more apprenticeship places, we use – apprenticeship grants, law and regulation. The states must use the dimensioning. We're reorganizing the programming structure of the professions. It's all important. The discussion that will press forward if this does not work is whether there is a structural problem that the means we have simply cannot solve. If it is that even if we increase the grant, even if we do reprogramming, even if we make stricter demands on companies that are to sell public services, even if we make arrangements as a practical letter, even if we do a number of things, we don't get where we want, that is, everyone who wants to get an apprenticeship, I think we have to start discussing the structure, the way we have put the system in place, at some point – and that's probably not now, but in a few years – we have to start talking about the structure, the way we've set up the system, is right, because as of today's date, it's like that 6 000 to 9 000 students don't get an apprenticeship. My ambition is that this number should go down. There are also more apprenticeship places in the number, but it also opens up for a bigger discussion if all of what we're doing now, with all of the tools we have, won't be effective in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1721	This fall has dealt with many important reports from the National Audit Office. Two of them will be treated here in the hall today. The only one is the report we're talking about now, about the authorities working to get more classrooms. The other is about the authorities’ work on following up young people who fall outside training and work. This is related, and it's about something of the most valuable we have, the youth, and how we have to take care of and not waste with human resources – for the sake of society, but also for the sake of individual young people. Every year, there are several thousand elephants looking for a place to learn, who are not allowed to sign a contract. They have gone to school for two years and, hopefully, have a keen desire to become e.g. plumbers or electricians, but then they don't get a lesson. There are a lot of reasons, but there's a lot more that can be done to avoid this happening as many today. The National Audit Office’s administrative audit points to a lack of responsibility, both centrally and locally, for this work. They recommend the following to the authorities: The Ministry of Knowledge must ‘strengthen and develop State tools to increase the number of learning places’ by: assess the development of the drug use ‘to support the work of the county municipalities’ assess tools and measures to strengthen the recruitment of new apprenticeships in order to help established apprenticeships see ‘suitable for more apprentices’ The National Audit Service believes that county councils should have identified both skills needs and local business. In the context of a survey of apprenticeships and potential apprentices, the National Audit Office draws attention to several factors that can contribute to learning places: better organisation and more information and guidance, which can contribute to more than one learning area and to more than one apprenticeship. It appears that in 2014, there was no state that had a business structure or level of employment that would have had a particularly positive or negative impact on the conditions for disseminating applicants to the learning place. The differences between the provinces cannot therefore be explained by reference to relationships with the structure of the economy or the level of employment. When, for example: may be up to 50 pst. a greater chance of learning in one country, e.g. Rogaland, compared to another, Eastfold, suggests, according to the National Audit Office, that local efforts by the county council and other actors involved will affect the number of ordinary applicants who are given a place to learn. The county councils exploit the potential of apprentices in different industries. According to the National Audit Office, several counties have little regard for the structure of the economy and the level of employment of their own communities in increasing the number of ordinary learning places. It also varies to what extent the municipalities actively market ordinary apprentices to relevant training offices and apprenticeships. On the basis of various surveys, it is summed up as follows: Ten municipalities say that they do not have any measures to actively disseminate information about searchers. Two thirds of the county councils themselves have not identified the potential for new apprenticeships in their own countries. 15 out of 19 counties say that they mainly leave the recruitment work in their own counties to the training offices, but 40 pst. by the training offices in the 15 counties, they respond that they do not carry out any particular recruitment work. Half of the municipalities also do not carry out information and placement campaigns to acquire more apprenticeships, and almost half of the private enterprises without apprentices respond that if they had received a direct request or more information, they would like to include apprentices. It's important to think about. The National Audit Office believes this indicates that many states are not doing an adequate job – and I think I agree with that. It is not the first time that the control committee meets this problem. In February 2013, the Committee received the National Audit Office’s examination of vocational training in the company. The aim of the study was to assess the extent to which young people with the right to further training were trained in a high-quality enterprise. The Committee then shared the Riksrevision's view that the Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for securing national targets, but that this does not detract from the implementing responsibilities of the counties. The Committee found it critical that several of the county councils had not given priority to this work. The Committee also commented on increasing the number of apprenticeships, and that is the follow-up to what we are discussing today. This time, too, we have to criticize the county councils for not taking the job of getting a serious apprenticeship. It's coming out of the numbers I just referred to. I want to repeat this: half of the companies would say yes if they had questions about taking in an apprentice – so why has no one asked them? I would also like to point out that, at the time of the submission of the report, the Riksrevision asked the Ministry of Knowledge to kick the county councils behind. It may have worked. In fact, the National Audit Office can tell you that there is a great deal of interest in the report by the county councils, and that is a good news. The criticism of the county councils is not a detachment of the minister of knowledge. The National Audit Service believes that the Ministry of Knowledge should strengthen and develop the use of government tools to increase the number of apprenticeships. In addition, the Riksrevision stresses that the ‘Ministry of Knowledge has a superior responsibility for achieving national objectives in the field of training’. The Ministry of State also considers that ‘the national audit should address key challenges identified in many municipalities that prevent these objectives from being met’. Finally, a joint committee will highlight its responsibility to follow up this important work, so that the state and industry can take on more apprentices than they do today, so that society and the students alike can benefit from it. We hope that that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1757	I now refer you to Mr Eldegard's contribution, which is the Workers' Party's contribution to this debate. As the Storting safely marked, I kept the post to the crazy case. The post I made should have been kept to the next case. I'm sorry, but I'll fix it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1763	Then it's noted. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1781	First, I would like to thank Mr Kolberg for a useful user guide for the others in the Chamber. That explains a lot. On this issue: The theme of the administrative audit has been to examine whether young people who have left high school receive adequate follow-up from the follow-up service and the Nav offices they are to have with a view to either resuming the training course or going to work. So the study target group is the ones that don't complete the race. Among the students who started in secondary education in 2009, there are 71 psts. completed after five years. Only 58 pst. by young people in vocational programmes, while the corresponding proportion in preparatory programmes is 83 pst. If we look at those who don't complete, we see that a minority of these young people are in measures that contain learning goals. It is noted that cooperation between agencies on the follow-up of these young people is not working well enough. Early contact with young people in this situation is an important prerequisite for avoiding recourse to passivity and instead triggering activities. National targets have been set for all to complete secondary education and thus be able to either go to work or study. A unanimous committee, like the National Audit Office in its study, notes that, although the implementation responsibility for achieving the objectives has been left to the county councils, the Ministry of Knowledge is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the national objectives are met. Several measures have been taken by the Ministry of Knowledge to strengthen the follow-up of counties. This includes, inter alia: training of employees, the so-called New GIV projects and Programmes for better implementation in higher education, and, of course, dialogue meetings. The Committee has taken note of the recommendations that naturally point out after the Riksrevision studies. There are mainly three categories. Firstly, young people looking for a Nav office need a faster and better follow-up, so that they do not stay long away from active employment. Secondly, the Ministry of Knowledge needs to obtain even more information on the quality of the follow-up to young people who have discontinued secondary education. Thirdly, Nav actions should include more curriculum objectives in order to enable young people to pursue higher education with general study or professional competence, or at least with partial competence as a goal. The Committee acknowledges that work is ongoing and intensive in order to reduce the drop-out and increase the implementation of higher education, including: through statistical tools to follow the work of counties and through up-to-date regulations of the Training Act. At the same time, a Joint Committee will stress the responsibility of the Ministry to follow up the measures and to actively inform them back. The size of the population will be expected to be up-to-date when the Council of State sees the effects of the implementation and effectiveness of the recommended measures. I also point out that on some points more members of the Committee of other parties have their own comments, and I expect that these will be explained in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1804	I would like to begin by pointing out to the chairperson of the committee in the previous case, which expressed much of what the Labour Party wants to express in this matter. But I have some additional comments, because I want to talk a little bit about the lack of further training. We often talk about it, it was discussed in the previous case, and it's a big problem – it's high numbers, it's been for many years – and then we have to ask ourselves: is there any solution? No, but I still think the Riksrevision has made good points that the department has to follow up on. The county councils must also do more, as in the previous case, about apprentices, but also for those outside. So I think both the government and the Storting must work even more with this matter to find out if maybe the solution is completely different from where we are usually looking. As the minister also said in previous articles: It may not only be the apprentice’s initiative; there may be other structural changes that one is forced to look at, for example. that it may be the financing of further education that does not provide sufficient incentives for county councils to hold students in school, or vice versa. Then we have to work on a broader level. Yesterday we read in the evening post that when Kristoffer got a change from a study specialist to a professional, the school day was perfect for him. Well, he likes it. He gets it done at school, and he's got a whole new everyday life. I have worked a long time to make it possible to go from study specialisation to professional. It has always been that one can go from a professional to a study specialization, but it has not been the opposite. But we did this in the big news in 2013, on the right track, and this is working in the municipality of Oslo. We're working a lot on it and we're starting to get to, for example. what is known as a compressed professional supplemental year. I think that would also give other possibilities. Because we have to think about when one is 15–16 and is going to choose education, it's not that easy to know what one wants in the world. Then I think that the most important thing we can do is to make sure that we get the kids out of school, but that it's possible to change the way you do if you get other interests. I've talked about the sex-shared labour market many times here in Stortinget. Youth is still very traditional, especially in continuing education. I repeat my number: it's 3-4 pst. girls on electric and car, and 9-10 pst. boys in health and social sciences. In the gender equality message we discussed in the spring, we received some suggestions that can address the situation and that focus on the situation, for example. extra points for boys and girls who are very untraditional, and that young people need better advice in the youth sphere so that they actually have real professional information. My goal is for all boys and all girls to use their talents, and by making sure that they choose from a much wider range, we actually give our youth twice as many possibilities. In any case, we have to prevent the non-response instead of repairing it. But fortunately, there are some schemes in the Nav system that take care of young people who have fallen completely outside. Some time ago I visited Nav Ung in Kristiansand. There they met the young people, they got work training, they got push and help to recapture the subjects from the continuing school, they got time there to sit and read. Many of them got on in life, and they got a positive boost. This was very good, but then it was a challenge, and I want the Minister of Knowledge to listen. It's actually the Nav minister who should have been here now, but the point is that when they were going to take the exam, they had to go up as privateists. They didn't get through the ordinary course because they were now in the Nav system, and it cost you money, and many of these students didn't have money. Then there was a rule in the Nav system that Nav couldn't pay for these exams. Then I'll be a little bit stated, because we can't have it like that. When the youth wants to, we just have to raise them up and down, so that it is done and we get our young people out. For we need all the young people, we need to get them to do the education and get them to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1819	This is once again an important document from the National Audit Office, which shows that the work done by those who do not complete secondary school is not on their care – despite the fact that action plans and different programmes have been presented, it has not been on it. Nevertheless, it turns out that reality is something quite different than that one in many contexts is talking about one going to implement. It's pointed out that we need to get faster and better follow-up in the Nav system, and that we need to get better quality. Anyone who has been close to young people in this situation can confirm that what is needed for faster and better follow-up and higher quality is really a truth. There are a lot of people who don't complete high school, as it goes on here -- the whole 29 pst. It's a vulnerable group we're talking about. There are many reasons why a person does not complete, and it is quite demanding to do a full job. Nevertheless, efforts need to be made at a completely different level. It has been presented by the Labour and Social Committee now and debated here in the Chamber about the conditions in Nav, and what is a lot of input to the Centre Party, is at least that we need to get a Nav organization that is such that those in the first line, in the Municipal Nav Offices and in the City-Nav offices get stronger staff, that they get more professionals, more responsibility and more authority to do what is right in the individual's situation. One must at all times have a transparent relationship in order to do the demanding job we are talking about here, as pointed out by the National Audit Office that is not in charge. Otherwise, I would like to say that what I mentioned in the previous article about the recruitment needs of business, usually also affects the ability of Nav and other public authorities to do a good job. If there are less recruitment needs for young people who are interested in learning, well, the need for public intervention is only increased. It is well today – yes, not only ‘well’, it is quite obvious – a situation where employers, if they are to give jobs to many of the people we are talking about here, have to get the payroll scheme up sharply. It's an effective system, but it's expensive. But it is clearly necessary for many young people who are not in the situation that everyone is talking about being in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1828	I would also like to thank the National Audit Office for addressing a topic that is not really much of an issue, and that is a new job, to go in this way when there have been many questions, and where we now get some of the first answers. The majority and changing governments have always stressed that early efforts are crucial for the success of high school youth, etc., but we also need to follow up on what is happening. Although there have been good kindergartens etc., there are many factors that can lead to falling out of high school. We have to see what happens during school, and we can't let the kids go too lye and cold water when they get into a difficult situation, and fall out of high school. It creates alienation, and it creates poverty. You fall outside the rest of your life – more often now than before, I think – because there are many fewer jobs of the kind you can get without high school. I have an example of that. Those who work on follow-up in Grorud City in Oslo told me that they had one who had dropped out. Of course, they wanted him to be doing something rather than going home, and helped him apply for jobs, which was the tool they could use first and foremost. For a part-time job in the cash register at Kiwi in that district, there were 450 applicants. A 17-year-old who has fallen out of high school is inconvenient to get that job. So they have too little to play on. I was at a very interesting meeting last night in the same area. A lot of parents had come forward to talk about the parenting role and the expectations society has for those who are immigrant parents, about how to deal with their kids here in Norway. One of the main questions they raised was, what do we do when our boy drops out? Because there are especially boys, to a much greater extent than girls. What do we do, and how can we help them? In the areas I'm talking about now, it's up to 40 pst. secondary non-response or not completed within five years. I had an interpellation with the Minister of Knowledge in November 2015 about this, and we raised a number of important points. Two of the points I was looking at followed the Minister of Knowledge up quite quickly in retrospect. I had some questions about it, also in the follow-up to the interpellation, and there were practical letters in all states and the law of it, as we did in Prop. 72 L before the summer, and it's also true that you can extend primary school for those who really don't have the prerequisites for going to high school. We have seen that there have been attempts to extend primary school in a few states, which have been successful, and it has been requested, among others. in schools I have visited. You get too many people into high school who don't have language requirements, for example. in Norwegian, for completion. So there were two important improvements we made before the summer. Now it is important to ensure the practical, concrete implementation of the decisions in the Stortinget. There is one thing from the interpellation that I want to underline today, which is very important – I remember the Minister of Knowledge commented positively then – and that is that the high schools and educational institutions in the counties have collection dates for when they report back who is about to drop out of high school. Some counties collect and report to the municipalities, to the districts of Oslo, twice a year, and some report from three times a year. This means that if a student starts to fall out, for example. in February to March in Oslo – and 1 May is the first date of collection to report – many schools are waiting to report. They might want to look at it, but there's also an incentive here, without me saying there's any speculation in it. The single-price funding we now have from high school students is such that the school loses between 80 000 kroner and 450 000 kroner a year, depending on the line it is, that a student drops out and gets out of school. I've met a lot of the students who have dropped out. Let's say they started dropping out in January to February, and then they feel that they are being notified by the State of Education next round, on 1 October. So it takes time in the bureaucracy before it is notified to follow-up contact in city parts, and the student who has dropped out hears something first, let's say in January. This is not a rare case, according to those who work with this in the follow-up services; the follow-up contacts. I've also met some of them. Both to the county councils and to the education minister, I would like to appeal and raise the question of whether it should not be a continuous notification of who is dropping out, i.e. not having the collection dates, but working more directly from day one with each student in a drop-out phase or in danger of falling from, find the time it is right to report to the city section on an individual basis, not on collection, because it leads to too many going too long before something happens. As the rapporteur said, early contact is crucial, especially in the phase of school dropout, while the situation is not yet clear. If you walk for many months that way, you get out of the rhythm and out of it having a structure of your life. Many do so and may be tempted by, among other things, drug use and other types of problematic issues. So by following from day one and really abolishing these collection dates that are practiced in county municipalities, I believe is an important step forward in this field. As regards the follow-up services in urban areas and municipalities, they are mentioned in the Riksrevision report, but it is also important to look at its capacity. The follow-up contacts I have met are employees in a metropolitan area in Oslo who also have other tasks. They are given a list of e.g. 100 to 120 that have fallen in the city part in the last months since the previous notification. The list drops down on their desk, and it takes time for them, often weekly and more than that, to work through it. It is not certain that there will be so much more than attempts at a contact in any case – as can be seen from the Riksrevision report – and it is clear that the burden is even greater in those districts and municipalities that have many that fall away. The capacity of the follow-up service in municipalities and urban areas is important to look at. It is clear that there is so much for us in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, how we work with municipal budgets and talk about this issue, but it has to be an interaction with the Church, Education and Research Committee and the Minister of Knowledge. The last point I want to raise concerns the interaction with Nav, which is important in the National Audit Office's report, and which was mentioned in the Stortinget today, among other things. by Gunvor Eldegard now in the last article. A system that we took up and praised – which I think all rusted – during the discussion we had in the November 2015 interpellation was Nav contacts at the schools, where you get direct cooperation with Nav already at that stage, before final rejection, where you can work with solutions in the intersection line between school and what's possible outside, in cooperation with Nav. There has been a testing scheme with Nav contacts at school at two schools in Oslo, Hellerud and Stovner secondary, two schools with a lot of non-response problems. I have been and visited them, and the experience of close cooperation is very good, by gathering resources at school and building them up around the student, before the drop-off happens. There have been reductions in this cooperation, inter alia: at Stovner secondary, as referred to in Akers Avis no later than today. I find it a pity that the project with Nav contacts at the school is being terminated from the New Year. That's the message we've been given. It seemed as if the minister of knowledge was not aware of it. I also perceived that the Minister of Knowledge knew that there was good experience with that scheme, and I should ask the Minister of Knowledge if the government can take a closer look at the experience of that project, and in what form it should be continued. Because the close interaction at an early stage is crucial for success in getting the student into a better track and avoiding a final drop-out. You get a much harder race in the future if you don't get to the earliest possible. Effort from day one and cut out the collection dates! The fact that county councils are looking at their price financing schemes to stimulate not to wait as long as possible, but rather to try to deploy more resources from day one, and Nav contacts in the schools; there are two of the points we have discussed earlier, and I would like to be able to address when we are going to continue working on the Riksrevision so correctly points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1856	I agree that we must also pursue the minor changes and the minor system errors. The representative of Bohemia mentioned some of these, e.g. that it was a regulation that prohibited the use of secondary education in combination with secondary education — completely meaningless. With regard to the time of counting for schools, there are two levels here: one is when the state gives its money to the states, there is one system, and the other is what kind of system the states that own the high schools have for that very type of routine and feedback. I would probably be inclined to believe that a type of price financing provides an incentive to fight against non-response, otherwise you lose the money, but it is up to the states to decide. One recommendation would be that if the representative knows someone who has power in a larger Norwegian municipality, there could be something you could try. As for the comment from the representative Eldegard, I have to admit that I do not know exactly that arrangement, and there is obviously something under Nav. But I'm concerned that next to the big things we also have to look at that kind of completely concrete thing, for sometimes, just as the Minister of Labour has now lightened the legislation to combine Nav performances with formal education, it may be that that kind of small, simple thing sometimes is right to do. The National Audit Office points to some important challenges in the follow-up to those young people who have discontinued secondary education. I want to pay tribute to the previous government and former government councils in the Ministry of Knowledge, because it was an important job that was done to identify these young people. The follow-up service systematically sought to gain an overview of the target population and to disseminate far more young people to work and training than before. It was important, because without that overview – it did not necessarily create large headlines – it would have been difficult to continue working. We need to work preventively while following up those who are out of work and training. We work with County Quality Network, where we participate and finance the County Education Directors together with the Department. There we will work with them to meet the National Audit Office’s recommendation on increased systematics and quality in reporting. Work on the development of practical and qualifying measures, including: in cooperation with Nav, continue in this quality network. The national audit suggests that the offer to dropouts to young people is deficient. Both the municipalities and the county councils fail. The size is too small, and there is too little dispersal on the device of the measures, given that there is a very differentiated group we are facing. I would therefore like to take a closer look at the Danish model of production schools, and whether this could be a possible measure for the weakest and most vulnerable youth group, among others. consider whether it may be appropriate to highlight means of experimentation with such training provision. As of the next school year, as the representative of Bohemia mentioned, all county councils will offer practical letters, but then the key is to ensure that they not only offer one or two but actually do so in a certain dimension to provide young people who need it with a practical and less extensive training course. Some young people may also experience that when they leave high school or drop out of school, youth rights are exhausted if, after a few years, they are motivated to start training again. There has been a gap between youth law and adult law. That means that if you suddenly find out at 23 or 24 years old that you're motivated to start again, it doesn't help. Then you just have to wait until you're 25 years old. The government has sent to the hearing a proposal to amend the training law – now we will see, that is not what is at the hearing; we have only proposed that the training law be amended, so that the right to secondary education is directly transferred to adult law, so that it is kept tight. Another thing we have proposed, and it has been consulted, is that people who have completed higher education abroad, but have not received it in Norway, are entitled to secondary education. It's very, very smart. It is a completely meaningless rule that has been there, which means that some people who have come to Norway and have approved education from their home country have not been entitled to secondary education in Norway, but have not been admitted to higher education from their home country so that they can start at universities and colleges – in other words, in Limbus, a catch 22. The follow-up service of the county is completely dependent on the cooperation of the municipality and other departments in order to help those young people who are out of training and work. It is also important in this context to mention the increased resources of health and school health services by about 1 billion. kr in the last few years. Today’s youth guarantee schemes do not reach the target audience well enough. The government will now facilitate a clearer and more unambiguous prioritisation of young people and replace today’s more fragmented guarantee schemes. From 2017 we will introduce a new youth effort to provide reinforced labour-oriented services. Training measures shall help to strengthen the formal professional qualifications of job seekers, including: by following existing curricula. The training may be combined with the provision of professional practice. In close cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I will follow this field closely in the future. These include: the importance of ensuring that the new youth action in Nav and the instruments in the education sector work well together so that young people are given the best possible opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1912	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 6, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left proposal No 7, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the repeal of Sections 14 to 14 of the Medicines Regulation and opens up the possibility for nicotine dependence medicinal products to be considered for reimbursement for patients with severe pulmonary disease’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1944	President, two things: firstly, I voted wrong, and the left turned out wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1949	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1954	So let's do it again. Does the left control have the number of them to have in the hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1959	No, we're such a big party, so it's a little bit difficult. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1964	Now that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1969	Now that's right. Then we take that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e1981	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage is amended as follows: [[Tobacco Damage Act]] The following new second sentence shall be added to the fifth paragraph of Section 22: Exemptions may not be made for electronic cigarettes. The following new second sentence is added to the fourth paragraph of Section 24: Exemptions may not be made for electronic cigarettes. ‘... The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2010	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for a municipal system of supervision for tobacco sales to prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation after 2 years of monitoring the impact of the marketing authorisation of several nicotine products on public health and whether it contributes to the recruitment of young people’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «In Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage is amended as follows: [[Tobacco Damage Act]] Option 1) The following new third sentence shall be added to the fourth paragraph of Section 24: No derogation may be granted for tobacco goods. Option (2) The following new second sentence is added to the fourth paragraph of Section 24: No derogation may be granted for tobacco goods. ‘... The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2054	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the first sentence of the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Tobacco Injury Act to be exempted from the definition of tobacco products, tobacco surrogates, tobacco germinations or tobacco smokers for candy which may be reminiscent of tobacco products but which are clearly not suitable for being confused with or promoting tobacco. No derogation shall be granted for more realistic imitations’. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2532	It is contested by A, I, Section 17, third paragraph. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2546	There comes one from SV into the hall, is that in line with the replacement? Eidsvoll Holmås cannot vote until we have finished the matter we are dealing with. It is voted on A, I, § 30. The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2562	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked by the Government to exempt § 30 of the Tobacco Injury Act from the requirement of standardised tobacco packages». The Progress Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will now support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2579	It's over A, the rest of I, and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2590	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2600	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B The majority asks the government only to derogate from the regulation under the third paragraph of Section 17 of the Tobacco Injury Act and the fourth paragraph of Section 24 of the Tobacco Injury Act which may be reminiscent of tobacco products, but which is clearly not suitable for being confused with or promoting tobacco. No derogation shall be granted for more realistic imitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2611	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have now announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2629	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås can participate and vote. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2655	Then it'll be corrected. 87 representatives voted in favour and 4 representatives voted against. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2667	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-12-09.ana.ud157e2734	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
