ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e28	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Anette Kristine Davidsen, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e47	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e54	From both sides of the Atlantic we now experience unrest among people, and an important explanation of that is social unrest. People experience job insecurity, but they also experience job insecurity – often of temporaryity, social dumping and crime in several industries. And we have the impressions and protests of the U.S. voters in fresh memory. In the United States, unemployment is low, but the quality of jobs created is poor. Many people have to have both two and three jobs in order to get along, and there is pressure on the safety of work. Fortunately, in Norway we are not there, but we are not protected. The government itself says that the crime of working life has become more extensive, more serious and more complex. It's a very serious diagnosis. In Norway, we have met in the past such developments with active policies, great efforts from the trade union movement and the mobilisation of tripartite cooperation. And in our time in government, we launched three action plans against social dumping: we made sure that vulnerable workers were given stronger rights, such as joint responsibility for pay and holiday pay, we strengthened the first-line defence, among other things. by raising the trade union deduction and providing trusted access rights, more organised, and we started to coordinate police, tax and labour supervision to combat crime. In many cities where the Workers' Party is now responsible, we have called for apprentices, professional skills and our own employees in public projects. In our alternative budget, there is a targeted effort for increased organisation, stronger labour supervision, strengthening of ecocrime, a new work crisis centre, etc. Overtime, there is now a serious register on the stairs – as the construction industry has asked for for a long time. Nevertheless, I believe that the space for action which is necessary to exploit this development is not being used. My question to the Prime Minister is: When the government says that the crime of working life is extensive, how does the Prime Minister think of mobilising an effort that is proportionate to the task of securing Norwegian working life and people at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e63	I agree with the head of the Labour Party that ensuring orderly conditions in the labour market is one of the most important things we do – also in order to ensure fundamental well-being. There are several important strategies for it. The most important is found in the Action Plan on Labour Crime presented by the government, which we have developed in cooperation with the NHO, LO and the social partners. We're now following it up, and we're seeing clear results. We see that through the increase in efforts we have had, there are several issues being investigated, there are several issues being solved, and there are several issues that contribute to more tidy relationships. Therefore, we systematically follow up this work at a much higher rate than it was done in the years before. That is why we have several joint cooperation offices, and that is why this is a higher priority than it has been in the past. Another important part of this work is to make sure that we don't have many who live illegally in our country. The people who are most vulnerable to gross exploitation in a labour market are those who do not have the right to be there. That is why we need to see a strict immigration policy and a strict practice of sending people out without a legal stay in the context of having serious conditions on the labour market. The government has also increased its efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e72	The Riksrevision has now given a slightly different assessment of the implementation of this work. They have criticized the government for not following it up well enough. Let me ask you a little more specific question. In our third action plan on social dumping, we proposed to exploit the possibility of demanding Norwegian shipping wages and working conditions for offshore farming out of the Norwegian coast. It has refused to follow up. I believe this is a question it is important to clarify. When, in the years that come, we're going to bet more on the ocean -- I think the Prime Minister and I agree -- we need to create safe jobs, we need to motivate young people to choose subjects related to the sea and the ships. The majority of the committee appointed by the government, the Committee on the Navigation Area, and several rapporteurs along the coast have so called for this. Related countries, such as Canada and Australia, look at how they can introduce this in line with international legislation. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to sit with its hands in prison, and in my opinion, it seems to me to be a fear of gaining knowledge. The question is: is the Prime Minister open to conduct an investigation into how this can be done, and then, if necessary, discuss with the parties how it can be implemented, so that we get proper working conditions on Norwegian vessels along the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e79	In the Maritime Committee, the balance between providing competitive Norwegian companies and a competitive Norwegian maritime cluster was taken into account, and we see that the results of this, for example. is that we are now flagging considerably more ships under Norwegian flag. It's of great importance, because that means that our strength in, for example, international climate negotiations are increasing in the negotiations that take place through the international maritime organisation. There actually counts tons and deadweight, i.e. ship size and how much you dispose of, as an important piece of negotiation. That is why we have considered it important that we actually have a policy where we have good arrangements to get more Norwegians on boats that go both along the coast and otherwise – we have done so by ensuring that the compensation schemes are still in place on pay terms – and at the same time in some areas make changes that help us actually get more ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e89	The Prime Minister mentioned in his first reply the strategy against labour-related crime. We have asked the government in connection with the state budget what efforts are being made to follow that strategy. In the first line of the government's response, the draft government budget does not include any new, specific initiatives. Does the Prime Minister think it bears witness to the power of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e96	It is such that action is shown not only through appropriations in a budget. We have now built up a new structure where we have several common workplaces around the country. They use the resources in the agencies themselves, in the Labour Inspectorate, in the police and in the foreign administration where necessary to deal with this. What we see is powerful implementation in these areas. In these days, there is a major legal case relating to precisely these issues, such as: has come up because we have had good cooperation between these agencies. That shows that we're getting results. We have also followed the social partners directly at the top level to ensure that the action plan measures are followed up. We've seen the results, and we see that it works. The answer is not a token in the budget every time. The answer is actually action out. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to praise both the Labour Inspectorate, the police and others for the priority they are currently taking of these kinds of matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e105	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e110	The fight against crime at work and the job of ensuring serious business players is very important. I agree with the Prime Minister that a lot has been done, but a lot remains. This week the Evening Post could tell us that the state company New Vegar AS has awarded contracts to companies that are now aimed at serious crime and corruption. To the newspaper it was also told that the former director of New Vegar ended the day with a warning to the government to ensure the anti-corruption work. This shall have been done in the final question of internal business ethics, which should have been lemped in several rounds. It is important that the state, with its projects, is able to set the gold standard in Norwegian working life. The question is, how can we ensure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e118	Through the qualification that is being done, it is quite clear that all contractors are required to work. Both requirements and requirements related to this shall be set. It's about social responsibility and health, about the environment, and it's about safety. Everyone who gets prequalified has to satisfy all of the shell requirements, and here we're actually talking about over a hundred shell requirements to be met. Some of these requirements are subject to duty and to the right of rejection. The obligation of rejection is linked, for example, to: judicial judge against corruption and organised crime. In that case, New Wegener, the contracting entity, has the right to reject any tenders that come from companies or not to pre-qualify them. None of those who are now prequalified have a verdict against them. If you were to go so far as to say that only you are being targeted in a case, you should be rejected, it would actually do something about the legal certainty for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e123	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e129	In the report mentioned in the Evening Post on New Roads on Monday this week, a letter from the former HMSK Director of New Roads was sent to the Prime Minister. In her letter she strongly encouraged the government to take the anti-corruption work seriously and protect the alerts. According to the Prime Minister that alerts have a good enough protection in Norwegian legislation, or could have been protected by e.g. an alert agent?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e134	On Friday, the government reduced a sample to go through alert protection in Norway. The government would not have done that if we were sure everything was perfect – then we had not spent time and work on it. We are open to making changes that mean a strengthening of protection. Whether it means an agent, or whether it means other, clearer, legal rules, we have to wait until the sample comes with something. The government takes this seriously, and we are concerned that we should have a good protection of alerts. But the important thing is actually when the notice comes, that you handle it in the line that's responsible for correcting what's being warned about, so that it has an effect outwards. It's one of the important things we have to do in every single line of work – to make sure that you have clear lines in how to handle a warning, and how to follow up and correct it as it's announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e139	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e144	New Roads have changed their business ethics requirements from the first project, Tvedestrand-Arendal, to the next, Ruggtvedt-Dørdal, and to the last, which went from Colomen to Moelv. There have been weakened claims for business ethics, and that is regrettable. The responsible director of Nye Veier resigned his position during the day and sent a letter to the Minister of Industry asking why New Veier would not comply with the ISO 37001 standard of anti-corruption in his work, and, in the case of public procurement, why not extend the strict requirements of the prequalification to parent companies, subsidiaries and owners. Too often the drug is washed cleanly through a white company, while the rest of the group operates across legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e149	As I mentioned, New Roads impose more than 100 requirements. Many of these requirements are requirements to be met. They include: included all the serious requirements of industry and trade union movement. In addition, they go further and impose stricter requirements than they do, including: in the case of the number of skilled workers to be included. They have claimed 50 pst., and not 40 pst., which have been the industry requirements. They want to strengthen the level of competence in road construction. They also have a requirement that there should be at least 7 pst. apprentices in the projects. They demand and they have an agreement on the LO coordinator in all the projects. They have called for pay and working conditions, subcontracting, bank payment, on-the-spot audit – ISO 26000 – there are very many demands, including those related to social responsibility. There's a much stronger requirement list here than what we have in a lot of other projects in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e154	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e159	If the prime minister is very concerned with foreign criminals, she has a job to do with cleaning up Bergen, where foreign drug gangs are obviously free to hire. With regard to employees and those who work in companies that have concluded large contracts with the public, there is a lot to do. The problem with the case with Nye Weier is that the requirements have been systematically weakened in the last few rounds. The requirement to have been repeated foreseened, sued or made a settlement, etc., is gone – now there is only the requirement to be convicted, again. This is a situation where many Norwegian and others, honestly, companies fight with their backs against the wall. Then you meet companies where you have corporate structures that are such that you can have issues about both social dumping and economic crime. Does the Prime Minister think that the rules should be tightened or weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e166	The government is very concerned that there should be zero tolerance for corruption in our society. We've been very clear on this in our ownership of state companies. Unfortunately, we can't beat ourselves on the chest and say that Norwegian companies have also been involved in corruption, but the government has been very clear and clear that we do not accept it. There are also clear demands in the tenders submitted by New Roads on the seriousness of the way in which labour is handled, the working conditions, the qualifications of employees and the use of skilled workers, but also on social responsibility and the use of subcontracting and contracted labour. Strict demands are being made by New Roads in this work. And there are probably as strict demands as there are in many other public procurement work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e171	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e177	On Sunday, I was delighted to give a salutation to 423 new citizens in a great civic ceremony in Oslo City Hall. It shows a Norway in change, a Norway that is more colorful, more common, more multicultural, and I want to say better than ever. The question that is then natural to ask is, What traditions do we take with us, what traditions do we not take with us? It's an important debate, and I think it's important that we take care of our very roots. We need to know where we're from. Then young people become safer themselves, and they can meet the new and unknown in a good way. An example of this is the debate we have on cleaning services. There are now principals on Voss who refuse to do so. I don't think there's a particularly strong resistance to cleaning services, but a fear of knocking someone out. It is an important principle that no one should participate in a religious ceremony against their will, and it should be equivalent. But we want to be a life-seeking society, and then the very question is, when it's true, life-seeking and religion: are we going to hide it, or are we going to lift it up? We know that the sacred service to Christmas has been an important tradition and part of our history. So I have an open question to the Prime Minister: What kind of value does she want to send in the questions and the debate that is now going on about services of secrecy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e186	I believe that we are becoming more tolerant and more open by being safe in our own values and in our own history. Norway is a country that has historically been a Christian country, where the Christmas service has been about Jesus and God, and the Christmas celebration has been primarily about it and not about bereavements and Christmas trees. I believe that losing that bond will be a violation of the historical tradition we have. I fully agree with the representative Hareide that it is not that some parents or some children should be required to go to a Christmas service if they themselves do not want it, but to give it the offer and be present and create that framework, I think is a quite natural part of a school day. It's up to every school, it's up to every parent group in collaboration with the principal and others to discuss this, of course, but I think it's going to be weird, and it's going to be a little failure sin if we're going to adjust so much that we don't take along the main reason why we're celebrating Christmas, and why we have that tradition in our part of the world. A Christmas service is one of the things I think many children have good things to experience and be present at. I hope that as many as possible of the parents who have a different religious background, it will also seem important to exercise curiosity, knowledge and learning about what this is, just as I think it is incredibly important that Norwegian children and Norwegian youths learn about Judaism, learn about Islam, learn about Buddhism and Hinduism, and perhaps also experience some of the traditions practiced there. But in this country, we're going to have a historical breach if that's how you're going to be afraid that we're going to have school gods, because we're not going to stumble or make differences between children. This is part of our cultural history.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e191	I'm very, very pleased with the clear message sent here by the Prime Minister. I want to exemplify it with what Nobel code player Ayesha Wolasmal says so clearly. He says: ‘Those like me can get an exemption, but I rejoiced to serve as a school god. I thought it was so nice, because it was the only Christmas celebration you were included in. Otherwise, all Norway is closed during Christmas.’ It was her qualms, and it shows that cleaning can be a place for just being inclusive and getting with everyone, but of course based on volunteering. But the government has created some confusion about whether there should be a login or a cancellation around this. The Education Directorate has said that it must be an announcement, while the Minister for Culture has said that it should be a cancellation mechanism. I totally agree with the Minister of Culture that a voluntary cancellation is the good way to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e203	Firstly, I would like to say on the question of cancellation or cancellation that I think it might be a bit of detail management if the state decides on how to do this. I feel that you should be able to do this in the individual schools. But I think that making schools an event, it's more natural to say you're not going to attend because you have reasons not to do it, than to make it a voluntary event where you sign up. Then there may be a lot of other things that are fun. And it's part of a school curriculum to be able to participate in it. Then I want to tell you about a story I experienced many, many years ago. It was in the early phase of the Vietnamese refugees, and we had got the first to Bergen. Some time afterwards, the priest at Haakonsvern told of a kindergarten in the neighborhood where they had taken Jesus and God away from the Christmas celebration, whereupon the two Vietnamese families had brought up with him why it was like that, for it was so strange that there was no mention of it. They were actually Catholics, but for some reason it had been thought in kindergarten that they were not Christians at all, and therefore they had canceled Jesus.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e210	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders Tyvand.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e215	Some of the opposition to school gods services is that some people believe the school must be as neutral as possible. Then it is not only school gods that have been problematized, but also the fact that children teach Lovely is the earth and other Christian Christmas songs at school during the Advent season, and that you get to go somewhere around the Christmas tree at school. Then I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is great that as much as possible, including those with a different religious identity and background, want to participate in school gods to get an insight into our culture and history. At the same time, freedom of choice is important. But now the freedom of choice is disappearing in many places because school leaders choose to say no, and then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does she worry that more and more schools are choosing to refuse to allow children to participate in school god services?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e222	Yes, it worries me in the sense that we get a break from what has been our historical basis – what is an important part of our cultural history and tradition in Norway – that makes you get a smaller picture. In a lot of subjects, we're concerned that it's not just going to be literal learning, you're going to experience it, you're going to understand it through some kind of experience. In a way, it's not to participate in a school divination, or to say that you shouldn't have school divination, to take away some of what will be a presence to see what a service is actually, and to see what religious practice is. So in a professional perspective where we want more of thoughts about understanding and experiencing through other forms of learning, it's important to participate in religious acts in different religions. It also applies in our tradition. I think it's going to be wrong to limit it. I think it is important that you have a local discussion – there may be differences between schools and also in the composition of the population. But taking away songs of a religious nature will mean that we are significantly reducing Norwegian singing heritage, but also large parts of the international song heritage. Almost all prisoners of freedom from the US Civil Rights Movement are concerned with religious issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e227	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e232	The Christian People's Party has raised the question of religious services, and it's important because it's not just about religion, it's also about culture and tradition. There is also one of several examples of how to understand the Norwegian language. It's also about understanding and knowing the sayings or references to poems by Petter Dass or texts by Alexander Kielland, or even understanding what it means to go to Christmas. At a time when we've been more multicultural, it's not as obvious that kids are growing up today with completely different stories and references. It's not dangerous, it gives you another ballast. But learning Norwegian is especially important for these kids, because they don't get it from home. They have to get it in the common arenas. If they succeed in Norway, if they experience social mobility, if they are able to speak from this or from the Prime Minister's office, they may master the strange Norwegian language. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the kind of social mobility that this is about is important, and what she will do to ensure more insight into the peculiar Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e241	I fully agree – and I tried to convey that in my answers in the past as well – that, in addition to the fact that it is in a way about religion, religion has been influential in this country since we became Christians in 1030. Those are good stories and bad stories. It is important to remember that women were deprived of many rights in this country, that the Church decided that it was the oldest firstborn son of the king who could become king in Norway, to stop the civil wars early in the 1100s. At that time, we went from a Viking society where women were more equal, to a society where we were not equal for many years. It's an important part of the story to understand that kind of relationship in our society. Understanding how we are today, and how our cultural history is, will also be knowing religion and understanding what our religion is all about. I agree that everyone who comes to Norway needs to learn something about it. Because if we do everything neutral and remove all traces of religion, we remove much of our values and our history.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e246	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e252	The centre party also believes that Christmas services at school are an old and good tradition, which we believe is important to take care of. It's actually like Christmas is a Christian celebration. Not least, we think it is important at a time when we have become a more diverse society culturally and religiously, because it contributes to increased understanding, and that is perhaps something we need in the time we are in now. Then we must also remember that it is not just about people coming from outside to our country, it is also about different beliefs and beliefs that we have in our country. Through the cooperation agreement with the government in 2013, the Christian People's Party introduced an additional K into the subject of religion, life vision and ethics. It didn't change the practical content of the hours, but it gives the impression that Christianity has become the priority religion. Does the Prime Minister think that the introduction of the word Christianity in the name of the subject has contributed to making the KRLE subject a more or less inclusive subject? And does the Prime Minister think that this may have contributed to the resistance to Christmas services and other traditions associated with the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e259	I don't think the introduction of K in the KRLE subject has done anything about the attitude to the issue of Christmas services or not, or that it has created greater or less resistance. I believe that what we did with these changes underlines the fact that the majority in this country count themselves Christians, that there is a greater emphasis on teaching what is the religion of the majority, which I also think was well illustrated in Hadia Tajik's questions instead, namely that it is important for people who come here, or others to learn about and understand our culture, our history and our traditions – understand how Norwegian society is built up. That is also why we set up a common subject – so that all those who have the background of Christian tradition and other things could learn more about other religions, so that we could learn more about and understand those who came here. But it must not mean that we should not learn the most about what has actually been the largest religion in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e264	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e269	VG and other media have told us the last few days about a state in the Bergens police force that is so insane that it's almost impossible to believe. The police have no means of responding to serious drug crime, and the backers go free. The Minister of Justice of the Government and his party often spoke before the election that one should send criminals foreigners on the first plane out of the country. The reality in Bergen now is that the police are following drug traffickers with drugs on the bus, and they are invisible witnesses. In today's VG, the Prime Minister is trying to make this a matter of time for warning and alert cases. That's important enough, but the Prime Minister takes note of the basic leasing and bureaucracy crisis in the police. In the value of consultants, it is formulated as follows in the crime analysis: ‘The current resource situation suggests that one has little opportunity to initiate new major issues in the police district.’ In the real world, it's the criminals who decide how many big things there are. It is not a decision that the police have the power to control. My question is: does the Prime Minister mean that it is acceptable that the police should not intervene against serious crime for the sake of lack of research capacity and poor budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e283	This government has increased the police budget by 3 billion. kr. We've increased the number of police officers by nearly 1,000 -- I don't have the number in my head right now. We have a significant boost in the fight against crime, but we also have a significant challenge in some key areas of preparedness, and we have a challenge related to ICT in the police, for which we are now working to find good solutions. We have given clear and clear priorities through the Round of Priorities given to the Police Directorate. There we have been clear that gross crime, gross profit crime, but also gross crime of violence, must be prioritised and investigated. Now the Special Unit is working on the issue of the alert and the situation in the West Police District. We will have to wait and look at their answer, their use of resources and their priorities, but the government's priority towards the Police Directorate is clear: these are priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e290	Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen is not aware of being a person of the small words, but in the VG on 15 November he spoke about this year's government budget. Then he describes the following, that these 300 million. kr is allowed: ‘ just to prevent further dwindling and to ensure a somewhat better space for action [[...]] [[...]] When the Minister of Justice describes his own budget in that way – yes, that is not strange. This is about Bergen, and my question is whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that this is unique to Bergen, and that one does not have the same situation, for example. in Stavanger, Oslo, Trondheim or Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e302	I assume that when a clear priority is given to the Police Directorate, it is followed up in the police districts. That's how the guideline should be, and if it's not followed up, there's reason to go through thoroughly why you haven't done it. This is what the Special Device does now when they look at the warning that has arrived. You work in the line related to the warning case. We have no indication that these priority rules are not being followed up, but there must be priorities for all police districts. Luckily, we see that the Crime Rate goes down in Norway. The percentage of information goes up. There is a lot of good police work in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e307	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e312	The Prime Minister stresses the need to follow the line. No one has criticized the person who has notified that one has followed the line. Nothing has happened. The Prime Minister says that one has to work faster on a matter with a 52-page notice of gross drug crime that is not being followed up. The attorney general says he assumes that the chief of police in the West is carrying out his mission in line with central leadership. Before it becomes such a case – is it really so that there are so many leaders for the police officers that they no longer have the opportunity to think sail and take the most important tasks first? One has to go into the matter before one gets such a case, but here there's clearly something about the whole system that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e319	There is a clear priority provision – i.e. guidelines – related to the letter of assignment to the police directorate on which issues should be given priority. State lawyers also contribute to some of this priority. But within this, there is room for police officers to make priorities for resource action. I'd say there's been a lot of difficult things in the West District. There is no doubt that the matters they have had include: The Monika case has been demanding for this police district. It has been a bad and difficult thing. It has probably caused a lot of other work to become more difficult to do, but now the special investigation body in the police is going through these questions and has the matter up. Then I think we should wait to take decisions about what has happened until we actually get it on the table. I also record that the police director in today's newspaper agrees with me that this should have been done in a shorter time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e328	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e334	I note that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice are seriously concerned about the situation in the Bergen police district. It is easy to imagine that this case concerns different situations. The background to the case is an employee who is concerned, who wants to do good police work, but who experiences being stopped in what he considers to be his duty. Especially in the last year, police officers and women around the country have been standing up and telling about tight operating frameworks. They are so tight that it goes beyond the operational service and the investigation of criminal matters, and provides inadequate equipment acquisitions. Does the Prime Minister see that the new alert case in Bergen also has, or may have, a context in which police districts have too tight operational frameworks?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e341	As I said in my first answer, we have increased the police and justice budget to the prosecutors by 3 billion. kr. It is clear that it means greater room for action within the police, but there are some major investments that need to be made. ICT systems have been waiting too long. It is a very important tool for the police to work well and have a good everyday life, that they have good ICT systems. Therefore, some money goes further into the system to get this in place, but there are also considerably more police officers employed. The fact that we've ordered more police officers to hire for the money you get makes the frames feel tight in other areas. This means getting more people, but you can get a little tougher budget frameworks elsewhere in the individual police districts. There is no reason to conclude today that it is because of the allocation of money that this notice comes. There is no reason to believe that the West has other or greater economic challenges than other police districts capable of investigating serious crime, such as serious drug crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e348	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e353	I have respect for police officers who have to make priorities, and hearing the police chief say that for him it is fighting violence against children the most important priority – it is a policeman at my heart. However, when the specialty unit goes into the case, it is mainly because when the police have been ready to go in – one knows that there are backers, one knows that there are drugs in cases – it is ordered not to intervene in order to prevent crime. It's the serious thing. But leave the alert case. I agree with the Prime Minister that there is a special unit inside to investigate. What I am concerned about is that in the budget paper for this year and for the next year, the government writes that in the case of drugs, a particular priority should be given to taking backers. So one knows that one of the biggest police districts hasn't just put it away, but they've closed their eyes when it comes to backers. And then my question is to the Prime Minister: does the government need to know that there are other police districts that don't have a particular priority to take backers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e360	We have no information to suggest that you do not work hard with the backers in many of the police districts, and with the priority that has been given. It is that we give an award to the Police Directorate, and then there are those who are going to follow up the management of those priorities, together with the National Attorney – on which issues are the highest priority in the police. So I have no reason to think you're not doing this in other police districts. Then I think it's important that we now let the investigation of the alert case go its course, because it could be that when it ends, the story is somewhat different, and the priorities will look a little different than what is currently the media image. Now we have a system that will work, and based on that system, we're going to look at the decisions relating to what you're investigating, and the conclusions that are drawn on what you've actually done in the West Police District. I agree that an important priority, and as they clearly state, is violence against children. It shall be of high priority. The weakest shall have the best protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e369	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e374	I want to raise my eyes a little, if allowed, for the background to the priorities that have been set in Bergen, right or crazy, is that we are currently using very large resources in the police, in law enforcement, in research and, not least, in criminal matters to combat drug crime. It confiscates large police resources. I have registered with pleasure that the Minister of Health has been out and said that he thinks we can better manage to limit the harmful use of drugs by moving them to health work instead of to the justice sector. It's a line that the left hand side is positive to. The question is, what does the Prime Minister think: Is it a wiser approach to achieving the goal we are some of, simply to limit the use of harmful drugs in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e381	What the Minister of Health has called for in our programme debate in the Right is that in the case of minor drug trafficking or self-use, instead of fines or other health services, you should be able to get treatment and help – instead of getting a fine or a fine, which too many of the heavy users only end up as a long list of things they owe to the State, and which they never can afford, or which we can at any time recover. It is a debate that we have in our programme work. I'm positive about it, but it doesn't mean legalizing heavy drug crimes or major drug trafficking, or placing on the market and distributing heavy drugs is going to take legalized form. That has not been addressed by the Minister of Health, and that is not what I am in favour of. These gross criminal networks are a mixture of crime — human trafficking, unprofessional conditions in the labour market — and many of these things are linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e386	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e391	For people in Bergen, this is a sad and serious matter that is ultimately about something as important as the trust of the police. If it is that the backers of serious crime are free, then the mountains, the people of our common hometown, fail. I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not conclude in advance. I also agree that we should not just make it a debate on resources. We need to discuss systems, we need to discuss the systems of police management that can often give priority to the simple in front of the more complex. And then I'm concerned about the same thing as the representative Rotevatn. I am very pleased that Bent Höie has given the signals about a change in course in the Right. I think that will give us a better drug policy. I also believe that this will lead to better resource priorities. We know that the police in Bergen have spent quite a lot of resources fined and followed by addicts on the streets. They should use those resources in a different way. My question is, why do we have to wait until the Right Program comes? The opposition in Stortinget is involved in such a turn. Can't we do that now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e402	The conditions that the Minister of Health has raised and that he believes we may not be spending resources on – fines and other things – are not part of what we believe the police should give priority to spending money and resources. We have said very clearly that this is about the serious criminal networks, the heavy networks related to drug trafficking. It's not running after the drug user on the Torgalmen that's the state's priority, it's the organized networks. We've made changes to some of this. For example, we have had a special arrangement in Bergen where we can judge people for treatment instead of for prison sentences, which have been very well evaluated, and which we are set to develop further to become a penal reaction that will be used much more widely. And then the question is, when do you have a criminal reaction? And when are they more widely referred to different forms of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e410	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e415	At a time when high unemployment and many with high education and considerable skills have lost their jobs, in the Left's view, it should be a strategy of its own to get many of those without jobs to start new activities. In June 2014, the Left, with the aim of bringing forward concrete proposals for improvement, was a cohesive step towards asking the government to review the framework conditions for individuals. The aim of the Left's proposal was not only to make more people bet and create a job for themselves and perhaps someone else, but also to increase the chances of more people being closed. So far, after over two years, there are surprisingly few, if any, proposals in this way from the government – no proposals that improve the tax conditions for individuals, no one that improves social rights, nothing about simplification for individuals and nothing about increasing access to risk capital – rather the opposite. One thing is that the government doesn't give priority to following up the decision and the will of the Storting, something else is that the government doesn't give priority to making everyday life a little easier for those who choose to start themselves – people who are willing to take a big personal risk of creating values with others. Community is entirely dependent on such people, of whom we need far more. If there was one thing left-wing thought was synonymous with a Right-front party government, there was a much more offensive policy in this field. Is it my glasses, colored as they are of the Left's burning commitment to innovation and innovation, that stand in the way, or am I right in saying that the government of Solberg in action is just as little occupied by self-employed and those who dry and want to bet on a business idea, as the red-green government was?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e426	I disagree that we are not engaged in business start-ups, that we are not concerned about establishing businesses. We have put forward our own business plan, we have followed this up by facilitating not least more start-up grants through Innovation Norway, and we are working on the overall, large-scale simplification work that has so far reduced the cost of reporting to the public – under this government of 7 billion. kr. All of this is also important for self-employed people, which makes it easier to report, easier to start and easier to deal with the rules that are for everyone. It's also easier to get help with the establishment. It's interesting to see that last year the SSB said that we have record entrepreneurs. The registered 61 000 persons established in personally owned enterprises and companies in 2015. So there's a huge growth in this. In the third quarter of this year, 4.1 pst was established. more enterprises than in the third quarter of 2015, so there was a record in the number of established persons both as self-employed persons and as a limited liability company. The share company model has been made somewhat more favourable with the changes made to share capital. This may mean that a part that would previously be self-employed chooses to set up a limited liability company. They will also have a clearer relationship with some of the social systems, and their responsibilities can be somewhat more limited by the way the company is organised. We are now working on the review of the framework conditions for self-employed workers, including in the social field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e437	The Prime Minister is quite right that we are now seeing a happy increase in start-ups. That's great. But then you know the prime minister just as well as I do that it's not rhetoric, but results that move society forward. If several are to be closed down with value-generating companies, there are particularly two important factors: access to commercial knowledge and risk capital. The left has negotiated two simple, concrete measures that respond to both needs: the pre-seed fund scheme, which provides access to risk capital for entrepreneurs who have entered into friendships with an incubator or business centre, and tax incentives – investors investing in start-up enterprises, capital funds. The pre-seed fund scheme suggests halving the government. The capital fund scheme will suspend them indefinitely. The left must again spend time and resources in budgetary negotiations on rematches rather than moving the world even further in the future. What is the explanation that simple, effective measures that improve the daily lives of entrepreneurs and new jobs are being neglected?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e442	We have strengthened the establishment grant, the pre-seed fund, the seed fund scheme and the innovation loan. We want to change Investinor's mandate, so that it can be more effective to get more investment at an early stage. And then we're going to switch between some of those measures. We're concerned with guidance and help, and we're working on the issue of a capital fund scheme. But one cannot make such changes so quickly in the tax system without having negative effects, without a purely tax adjustment by being part of a capital fund scheme, and it is important that we safeguard ourselves against it. I've been at Stortinget for a long time. In 1992, we carried out a large and important tax reform that made sure that we came from a situation where investment averaged in Norway went to zero – the return was zero – because we had so many tax-incentived investment schemes. After that, we have had a positive return on investment in Norway, and we have to make sure that we have such a tax system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e449	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e454	Many groups have their ‘days’. I don't know if the president knows, but Saturday is the day of the women's founders. Innovation Norway says that seven out of ten applications are from men, and of those starting AS in Norway, one out of five women. In technology companies, things are even worse. Of hundreds of companies in Norway, there is one co-founder or founder of women. It's a very gender-based labour market in Norway, we have huge pay differentials, and we see great differences between so-called girls' and boys' professions. Crawling is very rare in the traditional girls' professions. There is probably also some basis for us having such a huge pay gap and such a sex-shared labour market. What are we going to do to make more women start up, and what measures must we take to ensure greater equality among entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e461	I fully agree that, unlike many other countries, where women are entrepreneurs to a much greater extent, Norway is poor at this. The reason is enough that we have a historical tradition in our country to have one of the most gender-based labour markets across Europe, and that women work to a large extent in the social and care sectors. In Norway, the social and care sector is characterised by a high level of public funding. It's either the municipality or the state that runs it. They have large purchases, and there's much less room for the founder of that kind of system if we don't take good care of them. Therefore, it is important that we look at how we can make our purchases more entrepreneurial. In some cities where we now see that free user choice is to be reduced, some typical entrepreneurs for women wanting to start their own company because they want to solve their homework in a different way. It has a sex page in it when you make the kind of changes, where the municipality decides everything and private can't enter as entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e466	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e471	Norway needs new jobs, many of which must come from new businesses. During the last few weeks, a ‘founder uprising’ has been written and one of the problems they focus on is the lack of access to venture capital in Norway. One of these, Are Traasdahl, wrote a chronicle in the Evening Post last week. I quote: ‘Member States need to play an important role. The big problem with the lack of venture capital is not solved by itself. [[...]] And no, it doesn't keep with tax incentives and seeds." My question to the Prime Minister is not about establishing aid, pre-seed funds or seed funds, tax incentives or property taxes, but just venture capital. Does the Prime Minister see the need for the state to contribute venture capital, and what is the Prime Minister's plan to compensate for the 1.25 billion she is now withdrawing from the investor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e481	Sometimes, as politicians, we should think through that when an instrument does not work, we should change it. That's what we've done with Investinor. It doesn't work, it doesn't work as it should, and then we change it. I understand that there is now a great mobilization to keep a structure that does not deliver those results, rather for those they are going to invest in. So we have chosen to say that it should be directed more towards the early stage, which is the area where we actually have the largest base, and that it should be allocated directly every year, at about the same level as in the investments that Investinor has had in the past. We actually think that we can get more successful use of Investinor with the measures we're doing, than the situation we have today, where Investinor doesn't deliver the results we had expectations of. As sponsors, it is actually our responsibility sometimes to say that if the instrument does not work, we have to make changes, a little independent of whether our local politicians say that ‘this is what we should keep because these are jobs here with us’. We keep an Investinor in Trondheim, but we keep it different because it has to act as an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e491	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e496	At Civita's lunch meeting on innovation today, a fundamental question was asked: Why do we need innovation policies? And the answer was simply: more innovation in society gives added value. The government has provided a business plan, but it's an impatient environment. The FUNN tax scheme is a system that is important, that works well and that produces good results. The Prime Minister said in the previous answer that you should change if it doesn't work well enough. But we also know that it's tough to start new businesses, and that's why, among other things, we have. The Research Council was set up to provide more support through the SkattenFUNN scheme for enterprises less than eight years old. It is a system with which France has had great success. How does the Prime Minister assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e503	Innovation policies are important for many reasons. Can we just become 0.2 pst. more productive every year in the future, it has a significantly greater impact than our entire oil fund will ever have for the Norwegian economy. That's what shows that we can be more productive, and we can innovate more, then we can use our resources better. Therefore, it is important to work on all measures to improve innovation, both in the public and private sectors — and to create new businesses. We are very followers of the SkattenFUNN system. It's not so strange, because it was the Right and Left that suggested such a scheme in the 1990s. We carried it out in the Bondevik II administration, and we have made more improvements in the tax FUNN system, and it works. It's unbureaucratic, it's simple, and it works. So the question is whether to target different pieces. There's a lot of innovation in this country coming from the big and medium-sized companies, so I'm not convinced today that we're going to make a system where one just takes the first eight years, because we're going to have a lot of jobs coming out of environments of expertise and companies that already exist. The established innovators also – and perhaps most.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e512	Geir Pollestad - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e517	In order to produce the new enterprises, one must have tools that hit the whole stage, from idea to enterprise to profitable enterprises that can stand on their own. In reply to the representative Else-May Botten, the Prime Minister claims that Investinor is not working, so Investinor no longer has to be allowed to invest in this growth phase. Investinor is now almost alone in Norway to offer capital in this critical phase. Then there will be a gap in the associated chain as needed. My question is: Who my prime minister is going to fill the room that comes when Investinor can't offer capital in the important growth phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e524	Most of the discussions we have had on these issues in the past have been about the lack of early-stage capital. Now we're doing more too early, and now we're missing the venture phase. Fortunately, we have gained significantly more venture capital environments also on a private basis in Norway. In some areas, for example: within the forest mandate, Investinor will be able to continue to invest in mature companies. It's part of the tool to bring forward some new innovations and follow up the package that was on the forest from earlier on. I think it's interesting that we're looking for all the government instruments in this discussion when it's a growing private market. The main challenge in Norway is that much of the capital is on the state side and that too little is on the private side. What I have read in today's newspaper is that today's Central Party is going to promote a proposal to once again increase the property tax to 1.1 pst., despite all the suggestions we have about what they have said about founding and other things, and how important it is to stimulate private ownership around as well. This is one of the keys! We have to have more private owners, and the property tax is negative for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e531	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e536	With all the taxes that have come on assets with this government, one would believe that access to risk capital would at least have gone up a little. But the truth is, he's gone down. The investor now accounts for about half of all venture capital investments in Norway. From 2009 to today, they have accounted for one third, so there is a decrease in private risk capital. Just to illustrate this with the government cuts of 1.25 billion. In the government budget for next year, it will mean a decrease of 300 million. kr per year to 100 mill. kr per year. It's very difficult for a simple SV to understand what's the basis for this, but in the online Shifter, it might be the answer to what Monica Mæland says: ‘If the role of the State becomes too large, there is a risk that private initiative may be replaced rather than helped.’ Is this why you have chosen to cut in Investinor?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e546	We've been through Investinor because it's an instrument that hasn't worked. Sometimes we have to go through and look at the portfolio. It has not produced equivalent results. Then we've made a targeting against what's perceived as the biggest challenge in the early phase, in order to be able to invest in it. And then we've made another way of financing it. But if we look at how much Investinor invests every year, it equals about 100 million. kr on average, and that's what we've put in as what we're going to give to Investinor every single year in investment opportunities in the future. In addition, of course, we're putting money for loss, because there's a pretty high percentage of losses on the projects that we now have experience with. I understand that it is always more difficult to move on an instrument that exists only because it exists, but sometimes we have to ask ourselves this critical question: does what we had expectations of? The response from the evaluation is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e553	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e558	The growing inequality in Norway affects not only the poorest but also people at work. The low-paid people get an ever smaller part of the cake, showed a report from the Centre for the Formation of Wage, which is mentioned this week. At the same time, housing costs explode for many people around the country. A short time ago, I met municipal workers in Tromsø who told me how more and more people are experiencing that a normal income of labour does not extend to achieve the dream of owning their own place to live. Young and low pay are excluded from the housing market, and many families are concerned about how to deal with debt if interest rates increase or a decline in the housing market. It's about people's economy, but it's also about power over their own lives. There is a big difference between living in an owner-occupied dwelling and living in someone else's dwelling. This autumn, SV has repeatedly challenged the Minister of Finance to come to Stortinget with new measures to make the housing market work for the many people who are on the outside today. She pointed to the state budget. In the state budget, there was nothing like monks. There are people for whom the housing market works well. It's very lucrative to speculate and invest big money in property. There's talk about how young business people who want to go up and down buy homes instead of start businesses. The government conducts an elitist economic policy when it makes it increasingly profitable to draw income from what the richest picks up their money — inheritance, wealth, property — while there is a high tax on ordinary people’s labour income. It is possible that the total burden of action in housing policy is due to this great concern for them at the top, as the government is still showing. The country’s economists are concerned, the IMF considered in July that the Norwegian housing market was 40 pst. The overprice, but despite all the warnings, the government doesn't seem to worry. Can Erna Solberg now, unlike the Minister of Finance, notify one new measure the government will take, which will address the situation in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e570	We've done a lot like monks on the housing market situation. The most important thing we've done is many simplifications in the planning and construction processes that make it possible to build faster, which makes it possible to bring down the time it takes from planning new residential areas, until we can actually see new dwellings. Many places in this country are the main reason why we have increased housing prices, that we have built too little for several years. Fortunately, we now have a large start on new dwellings, and more homes entering the market will help to balance the price growth over time. The second thing we do is a consequence of the tax reform we're implementing. When we make reductions in net tax and increase gross tax, which is an effect of what we do by reducing the tax rate, that means that the interest rate deduction will be slightly less important than it has before, and it will also mean limiting the incentive that lies in the tax system. We've also made sure to adjust the valuation of secondary dwellings in several ways. It also means that investing in another dwelling to just rent it out or have it is not prioritised in the tax system, as it has been in the past. But it is clear that as long as housing prices increase greatly, and as long as there is a lack of enough housing and housing in the municipalities, there will be an increase in prices in press areas, where many move. That is why we must both do something that reduces incentives – we have done – and at the same time ensure that we build enough, so that not an underlying imbalance between supply and demand is what drives prices up. But there's no need to do that like that. In this city, make sure that people are even more expensive to live when you add a property tax that, after the last estimates, will hit about. 50 pst. of all the dwellings in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e581	Then I can enjoy the Prime Minister that the tax scheme proposed by SV in Stortinget will both do something about the price increase by moving taxes from work to property while at the same time giving more tax credits than the Prime Minister has proposed, for anyone who earns less than 600,000 kroner. Then we can both bring down the differences and dampen the price pressure. But I didn't ask what the government had done, because it's obvious that what the government has done is too little. It is also obvious that the government has the wrong diagnosis when they are just talking about that it is being built too little. The right has run Oslo for 18 years, obviously without building enough. They've been driving Bergen for 12 years, obviously without building enough. But this includes, among other things: The fact that we have a tax system that is rigged for speculation and wants to grow prices, which makes it so incredibly lucrative for them with a lot of money to put money into property, which is the problem. That doesn't just say SV. Most leading economists say that, OECD says it, etc. They tend to listen to the Prime Minister. So I repeat my question: does the Prime Minister have one single new measure that can give hope to those who are now losing in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e590	We are in the middle of the implementation of the tax reform. That means we're stepping down further. This means that there are measures in this budget, too, when the tax rate goes down on net taxation and on gross taxation in our tax system. The changes we have made to the simplifications in the building block for smaller apartments mean that OBOS can reduce the size of the dwelling and ensure that the sale price of small apartments is reduced by between 300000 and 400000 kroner. It is a huge simplification and opportunity for young people to enter the housing market if they cut between 300000 and 400000 kroner in the construction costs of the housing law. The simplifications in the construction code that the government sent on consultation a few days ago may reduce the cost of small dwellings by an additional NOK 130 000. That means that when it's built, it's built cheaper in the future. It will also be a contribution to the selling prices, not least because in parts of this market the selling prices reflect the cost of building a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e595	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e600	The Prime Minister’s reply shows that she does not know how prices in the housing market are set, nor how they are too common people with very common jobs and low wages. So there's no correlation between the construction costs and the price development, so I have statistics here that the Prime Minister can see. Housing prices are put on the market, and it's been expensive on that market very many other places in the country than here. The right-wing representative Kapur says so arrogantly when SV presents its package to help ordinary people, that SV will solve a local Oslo problem on Grünerløkka. Then I can tell you that the housing prices, for example. Hamar, where I live, has increased by 15 pst. in one year – yes in Hedmark, for the part, which may not be a press area, by 11 pst. They've increased in Trondheim by 12 p.m., and they've increased all over the country. So the problem here is that ordinary people with normal wages can't live. Does the Prime Minister agree with his party colleague that this is only a Grünerløkka problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e605	One consequence of the improvement in the economy, the creation of more jobs, is that you sometimes get price pressure in the housing market. I'm glad that inland is now going well, that we have record low unemployment there, instead of the picture that we had just a few years back, that they were in the shadow, that there were deportations, and that there were challenges. So in a way, there are some good sides, because there's now more growth and more economic development in parts of District Norway, like that. Inland. So it's not like what I've mentioned doesn't matter, because construction costs have a meaning. When OBOS sells apartments, they do not sell them on a market price, they sell on a building cost basis, with a return on the investment made. And when you get more access to small apartments in areas where there's a lot of demand because of households on one person or another, and when you fill it in the market, the price pressure on the smallest apartments will also go down. This helps to increase the possibility of building more, more curative apartments into the lowest markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e612	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e617	The Labour Party believes that we need to do more to help young first-time start-ups enter the housing market. That is why we have made a number of concrete proposals here in Stortinget. The government has been passive and at the same time has run from its own election promises. Before the 2013 elections, Right-wing young voters promised to reduce the equity requirement. In the government this was quickly canceled. Then one might think that the government came up with other measures to help young people in the start-up phase into the housing market, but the government has also reduced the loan framework in the House Bank and made it more difficult for young people to get a start-up loan. Under this government, measures have been reduced and the entry into the housing market for young people has become more difficult. Is there an ideological belief that the market itself should settle, which stops this government from helping more young people enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e624	It's not an ideological belief that it's the market that solves everything, because we know that in our country, for example, is. what is going on in housing and residential development, through regulation. That is why we are now implementing all the changes that make small dwellings more accessible around the country. Because the cost of building the small dwellings is even smaller than building the larger ones — because of the changes we have made — access to homes that are a natural first-time home in most cities in this country for a youth is better, because it makes it easier to do so. The challenge is that in some places local politicians choose to regulate only for larger homes anyway. For example, in this city there is a discussion about whether to regulate several small dwellings or whether to regulate to medium and large dwellings. The fewer small dwellings there are in a housing market like in Oslo, the higher the prices of the first dwelling that people buy. So I totally disagree with the description of what the government's policy is, and I disagree with the glamour of the Labour Party's policy. Practical policy means that it does not contribute to, for example: that Oslo will have a better balanced housing market for young people to establish itself in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e631	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e636	Lack of new construction is a problem around many municipalities in the country. While housing prices speed up in the big cities, parts of Bygde-Norway have the opposite problem. The housing prices stagnate, and have the courage to take the risk of building a new dwelling, because one has to expect large losses if the dwelling is to be sold one day. The construction costs far exceed the market value. In 2015, the government decided to remove the budget line ‘Dwelling in districts’, despite the fact that the evaluation of the scheme showed good results. Among other things, it says: ‘The measures have resulted in local optimism and have had positive effects on a housing market which had initially remained silent, both for residents, for the municipality and for the business community.’ That's 20 million. kr, which the Centre Party also enters into the alternative budget of the year. What is the government's reason for cutting the project after receiving an evaluation that was so unambiguously positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e649	I do not know the details of all grant items from the 2015 budget about the exact reason that was given. But with regard to the changes we are making in the building regulations: it's important to remember for the Center Party that when the Bondevik II government was in place, we made simplifications in the building regulations -- we would make it easier to build homes to bring down costs. Some of the simplifications that I carried out at the time, they were angry when they were in government. They significantly increased construction costs for all dwellings in Norway. Now we have taken action to reduce the construction costs of small dwellings, but also through the changes made in the construction regulations now, costs are lower. This means that it will be easier for people to build even in the districts, where they might have to sell their home later, in a market that has less returns. That means more than 20 million. SEK in an aid grant if you get NOK 130 000 less in costs, related to the new proposals we have out at the hearing. We're doing something about this. The increased costs. We're reducing costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e656	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e661	The State budget has led to a significant climate debate. The few are satisfied, and it may not be surprising. There is a lack of willingness to propose concrete measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the existing State budget. Should we be able to achieve the Paris goal of 40 pst. emissions cut by 2030, it is urgent. The measures should be adopted during this ageing period if critical actions are to be avoided. The Labour Party therefore presented in February more than 40 climate proposals in Stortinget. In the climate package in our alternative budget, we are now following up on several measures that need to be taken to achieve the Paris objective and that can meet our commitments. I have often challenged the Minister for Climate and Environment to come up with concrete measures so that Norway can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. The climate minister has constantly asked us to wait for the EU. When the majority of the population adopted joint implementation with the EU in 2015, the Stortinget suggested that the bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU would be in place during 2016. Now it is clear that this will last, at least until in 2017, most likely 2018. But so long it is not wise to wait. It will take time for new measures to work, and that is why we need to start now. There's only 13 years left until 2030, in other words, it's urgent. The climate minister’s strategy is obvious: to wait until emissions cut. My question is therefore: does the Prime Minister share the belief that Norway best achieves the Paris objective by waiting for the EU to reach an agreement on the allocation of resources between EU countries, before promoting concrete and adequate measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e672	The government is not waiting. We do a lot in the different areas, with a lot of action. What we're doing now is we're implementing a number of the measures that the Labour Party said no to when we negotiated the climate agreement. We ensure that the climate fund has more money, in line with what we said we wanted, and as the Labour Party and the other red-greens said no, as we sat and negotiated the table about how much money Enova should have. We have also said in next year's budget that we are now going to secure those transfers without there being any uncertainty about the interest conditions of a direct transfer. We've tried to compare what the Labour Party is doing in its budget, and what they're saying about it, with what we're proposing. We will probably find in all our calculations that the Workers' Party has a deficit in the climate fund in relation to what we have committed for 2018. We implement e.g. another electric car policy. I heard this morning that we should now tighten up the electrical car policy on the part of the Workers' Party. We have implemented the electric car policy we wanted in the climate agreement, namely that we should have the electric car benefits secured out in 2017 and for 100 000 cars. As we know, the result was 50,000 cars at the time. So we have pursued a long-term policy that contributes to this. We also do a lot to ensure that companies are able to make the right investments. That is why we have many innovation instruments. Enova contributes. And maybe the most important thing we did early in the period was to make sure, when Transnova entered Enova, that we got a much stronger investment in the transport sector. This means that we have now used – subject to my standing on the Spokesman's chair and taking this number from my head – approx. $800 million. kr to the type of transport-oriented action through Enova during the last year and a half, more than what has been proposed in such earmarked items from batches on the Storting, because we made this systematic change. So we're going to make sure that we lay the foundation for emissions, through that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e683	The Prime Minister and the government's problem is that the policy is not working. Greenhouse gas emissions are rising. It's a fact. The climate is also well lit in today's VG and is probably also an expression that climate policy does not actually work. When a reader reads what the Minister for Climate and Environment says, it is obvious that the EU is going to make a climate revolution in Norway. Of course, that's not going to happen. It is the government that has to put forward proposals for action in Norway — measures they have so far failed to provide and measures that may not work. It's right here the problem with today's government is. Not one concrete new measure has been promoted during the three years when today’s Prime Minister has led the government. I wonder if it is that, when the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment constantly refers to him waiting for the EU, it has become a fact that it is the EU that has to impose climate action on the government in order for the government to choose to present climate action that works. Is there disagreement in the government that is the basis for this? [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e690	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e695	I think it's just the Labour Party that can believe that post that we just heard. We have proposed strengthening many of the climate measures. We're going through the sectors systematically. The Green Competitiveness Committee, which we set up, has now had good dialogue with all the major sectors of emissions in Norway to help increase competitiveness, but also what is needed. We have good road maps that you can build on, and we're going through it. In those vulnerable, a lot of the measures we have taken are, for example: putting Transnova into Enova, which actually makes them spend a lot more money into the transport sector, to bring emissions down there. It's one of the important and critical areas we're working on towards 2030. In car policy, we have made changes to the one-off charge, which is, after all, a new measure – if you want to. The one-off charge plays a major role in the replacement of the car fleet and contributes to the reduction of emissions in the future – including in relation to the climate. This is because the increase we have now seen is largely due to decisions taken in the oil and gas sector under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e702	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Otterstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e707	It would have been interesting to hear if the Prime Minister and the Right/Fremskrit party had reservations about increased greenhouse gas emissions when the government statement was presented after agreement had been reached with the Christian People's Party and the Left on an agreement. When the year's budget was presented, it was estimated that the emission cuts would be 0.2 million tonnes. Is this what the Minister for Climate and Environment describes as the green revolution in today's VG?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e714	0.2 million tonnes is the effect of the four tax changes. That's not the long-term effect of the changes we're making in very many other areas. So now I actually think that the Workers' Party gives a very sign and simplified piece of a very difficult topic. However, when you ask questions about what kind of emissions, it might be interesting to hear: Of the emissions that increased from 2014 to 2015, approx. half of the emissions in industry, measures in the oil and gas sector adopted and implemented under the red-green government. The second part comes from the fact that Yara produces more ammonia and has more jobs in Norway. They're part of the allowance system. Is the Workers' Party against Yara having more jobs in Norway and producing ammonia and being part of the industrial journey in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e721	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e727	I don't know if I'm going to call it ‘fascinating’ or ‘depressive’ to hear the Workers' Party and the Right criticise each other for bad climate policies. They're so right, both of them. The working party spent eight years designing and practicing a climate policy that was clearly aimed at not cutting emissions in Norway. It was a perfect, successful policy. No emissions were cut at all, and the Labour Party was responsible for sabotaging Norwegian climate policy for eight years. But of course it is brilliant that the Workers' Party will now be involved in being the offensive and challenging Right. And the right hand side can answer that. The Prime Minister can now make it clear that she is the best at climate policy by answering yes to the following questions: Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the demand of the climate agreement to cut Norwegian emissions to 47 million tonnes, from today's 53 million tonnes, will be implemented with the policy put forward now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e732	We've said a long time ago that it's going to be hard to achieve. We're going to meet our agreement, we're going to reduce the large emissions. But we may not be able to get so much of the emission reduction in Norway. This is due, inter alia, to: the allowance system, which was an important part of the climate agreement, that 50 pst. our emissions are regulated through the allowance system. When we had that discussion and made the agreement, we assumed a significantly higher quota price than it has been in the allowance system. This means that there is less impact of the quota system on reductions in Norway and new technologies. Then we have had an increase in the population that is larger than we saw when we entered into the climate agreement, and it also makes the transport sector contribute. But we have very big fractures that we're looking at in the future, technologically. That means that we think it'll be possible to reach 2030, but it's going to take a lot of us. By 2020, we will meet the climate agreement's ambitions with regard to the Kyoto agreement and the reductions we are going to have linked to 2020, but we are not sure if we can manage all the cuts in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e741	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e755	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Lise Christoffersen of the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs who directs him. Question No 5, by Mr Aukrust, representative of the Minister for Transport, lapses because the representative is not present. Question 10, from the representative Per Rune Henriksen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport, who will direct him. Question 11, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg. Question 20, from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Health and Welfare, was moved and answered on request to Question 29, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 21, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Rigmor Aasrud. Question 22, from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative of Audun Otterstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e783	‘Right-wing leader Erna Solberg promised in April 2013 a massive journeylift in the Tromsø region to approximately SEK 5 billion if they came into government, including new Kvål link, Tin Tunnel, Ullsfjord link and toll-free E8 through Ramfjord. Solberg said to Nordlys on 23 April that "these are projects that we promise to start if we win the election". After three years, not one metre of these projects are under way. Where was it by the Røres transport lift for the Tromsø region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e796	When the Stortinget dealt with the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023 in June 2013, the Right wanted to include a road package for Tromsø as part of our long-term thinking for the development of the Tromsø region. I want to remind the representative Henriksen that his own party and cooperation parties voted down Højre's proposal, and that today's NTP therefore does not contain this road package. However, I can assure you that the government has not forgotten Tromsø in the considerable effort we are now making in North Norway. Under this government, roads are built and maintained in North Norway as never before. With a commitment to maintenance and renewal that has nearly doubled, the decay on the highways of the country is cut for the first time in decades. In addition, we are building a lot of new things. New E105, new Tana Bru, new E6 on Helgeland, tunnel in Rv.77 Mountain and E6 through Sørkjosjellet and Nordnes to mention some examples. Our targeted travel promise means a lot to take out the potential we have in the north, where distances are large and good infrastructure is important in order to strengthen competitiveness and secure travel. In the four-year period 2010–2013, North Norway had a total of 5.4 billion. kr for national road investments. Following the presentation of the 2017 government budget, the national section is expected to have a total of 12.4 billion. kr for the period 2014-2017. It represents more than a doubling of the investment funds. For the current four-year period 2014–2017, North Norway is expected to reach nearly 1.3 billion. extra kr to the county roads. In addition, funds for upgrading the tunnels and earmarked grants through the interest-rate compensation scheme for transport measures in the counties, with an investment framework of more than 400 million. NOK in North Norway, a scheme that the Workers' Party wanted to remove. Although the Tromsø package was not part of the NTP, planning of several projects in Tromsø is in progress. The E8 in Ramfjord was one of the first things this government took on. Finally, the Road Administration of the State is sending planned proposals for this measure at consultation in March to April 2017. The government will return to NTP 2018-2029 on the prioritisation of the matter during the planning period. The government parties also, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, quickly set up a ferry relief scheme for the county roads of 40 years. This includes, inter alia: important for the Ullsfjord link, for which the Trom County Municipality has started the design. The government has contributed to the further development of the transport system in Tromsø with several measures, and I would like to highlight the improvement of the crossing at Breivika port, where it is now guaranteed to start in 2017. When we presented our alternative national transport plan in spring 2013, we said that during that planning period we would take major action for Tromsø. We're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e809	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. We've heard the scribbler list before. In fact, in the case of county roads, there is a consensus about that bet, there was a bet that started in the red-green NTP. With regard to the investment in the national transport plan, the government is about what was presented by the red-green government, but has also not brought any new projects. What I asked about, was that this is the last chance the Right has to follow up its more sunny election vows from the 2013 election campaign on projects to 5 billion. kr in the Tromsø region. The fasitite so far is that the spade is not set in the ground for any of them, and the planning is not accelerated. At that time, the Right-Leader did not make any reservations about the NTP decisions in the spring of 2013, that normal local processes must also be carried out, or that these promises did not really apply during this majorisation period, but during the next majorisation period. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about one of the concrete projects: is it that the government will introduce a government share that will allow them to continue to guarantee that E8 into Tromsø will be toll-free?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e816	The newspaper inventory on which the representative is based is a newspaper release based on the presentation of our alternative national transport plan. As the representative knows, in the previous period, the national transport plan is a 10-year perspective. What we said was that we should get started with this package. It was not adopted in Stortinget as a complete package, but we are implementing measures within this package. All projects take time to plan and complete. The E8 will be consulted in the spring with the completed plan, and then it will be against the national transport plan we are going to make an assessment of how much and what system it is going to be. I cannot foreshadow the government's treatment of the national transport plan now. The representative must wait until the national transport plan is presented. But it is not that everything was to be done for a four-year period. Work was to be based, and it was to be included in the national transport plan — and the work is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e821	With regard to the E8 to Tromsø, the first government did, to set aside the state plane, so that way takes longer to get in place. But Erna Solberg's promises in 2013 made no reservations about what she is now saying. What she said, on the contrary, is that these are projects that we promise to start if we win the election. It's not everybody else's fault, it's not local processes when we see that the Right has delivered 0 of 5 billion. kr in their promises. The right must take responsibility for its own promises. I can understand that you take a little extra in a campaign, when you want a lot, but this still stands as one of the worst examples of shameless election struggles in modern political history. With the words that the Prime Minister now came up with, I would like to ask the question: can the Prime Minister now guarantee or at least notify that these four projects that she promised in 2013 will be within the next national transport that the government is submitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e826	It is not that we can advance the national transport plan for the next year. The presentation on 23 April was not part of the election campaign, but it was our alternative National Transport Plan for the next ten years, and we have started the work. When we made changes to the E8, it was because there was a local desire to review this in another way. We've respected local policy, we think that's an important part of the work we're going to do. With regard to the infrastructure around large cities, we must also listen to local politicians in that region. So that's why we've had a round. Starting a project is about starting up and working with the project in a way that makes it possible to realize, and we have added that to the work that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e834	This question, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e839	‘From 2016 onwards, the government made a change in cap. 2370 Random expenditure under the Ministry of Finance, which resulted in social security schemes no longer being dealt with in the Storting, for protests, among other things, by pensioners’ organisations. This consequence was not described in the Ministry of Finance’s 2016 proposal. Was the Council aware of this when she presented the budget for 2016, and if not, will she take the initiative that the Storting will again receive social security benefits for treatment in the usual way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e846	More expenditure budgeted under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is covered by the regulation of the basic amount of national social security in the annual social security scheme on 1 May. Until the financial year 2015, expenditure related to the next year’s regulation of the basic amount and pensions was not included in the expenditure estimates of the Ministry’s budget for the coming financial year. As a result, before the summer of the financial year, a proposal with additional appropriations was presented as a result of the regulation of the basic amount and pensions from the population’s backlog on 1 May. From 2011 the regulation of the basic amount is regulated by law and regulation. The new regulatory provisions laid down in the law require the base amount to be indexed to the wage growth of society. Taking into account the estimate of next year's wage growth, as estimated in the national budget, and the rules on how to regulate the different benefits, estimates of benefit regulation can be calculated next year. Thus, once the Storting has established clear and predictable rules for the regulation of pensions, it is possible to take into account pension expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs already in the State budget. Therefore, when examining the 2016 government budget last autumn, a change was adopted in the budgeting of the expenditure resulting from the regulation of the basic amount and pensions. The estimated impact of the current year’s regulation was budgeted for relevant items in the Ministry of Labour’s budget, as opposed to previous budgeting practices of Chapter 2309 Random expenditure under the Ministry of Finance. Since the funds had already been allocated to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs’ budget, it was not necessary to promote a separate proposal in the context of the year’s social security settlement to move funds from one budget line to another. This conversion of budgetary practices is a simplification and an improvement in the efficiency of budgetary work. It has no real significance for the implementation of social security schemes. Discussions with organisations on the standard statistical basis for regulation shall continue. Otherwise, I show that the government has submitted a separate notice on the regulation of pensions in 2016. The notification contains much of the same information as was provided in the previous budget proposals, but also information that was not previously submitted to the Stortinget in the so-called social security proposal. I think it's important to show an overall picture of the economic situation of the pensioners. Therefore, the Communication also sets out the developments in the overall income ratio of pensioners in recent years. The notification has been submitted so that the Storting will be aware of the content when the Storing deals with the State budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e863	I asked a very simple yes- and no-question question, and it was addressed to the Minister of Finance, the leader of the Progress Party. She does not want to answer the question and has therefore sent a Right-State Council instead, and I understand why. After all, the Progress Party has run from its promises to the pensioners to the degrees that the Pensionist League, in the context of the 2015 Grand Prix Double Game settlement, called the Progress Party the conduct of a ‘pig-tackling’ and said so strongly: ‘Juks and Fantery never pay off.’ That’s hard, but clear speech. Former Progress Party State Council Robert Eriksson said here in Stortinget that there was nothing in the way that the social security settlement could also be presented in the future in a normal way. It hasn't happened. What I then wonder is whether it was before or after the Right took over the Department of the Advancement Party, that the government decided that the Storting should no longer be settled in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e870	After all, the budget for 2016 was presented before there were changes in political leadership in the ministry. I'm also glad I have the opportunity to tell you a little bit about the government's policy. There is no doubt that the government is giving priority to the pensioners' economy. The government proposed to increase the basic amount of married and cohabiting pensioners, a proposal against which the Labour Party voted, which was a significant improvement in the income of married and cohabiting pensioners. The government has proposed several tax reliefs that benefit pensioners. The size decided to improve the economy of the minimum pensioners, to mention something. The communication submitted to the Storting also shows the impact of these decisions on the economy of pensioners. It involves a substantial improvement in their economy, and some of it has therefore voted against the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e877	It is well part of the story that the Workers' Party took the initiative that the minimum pensioners actually got something, and it also belongs to the story that there are some lonely pensioners above the minimum pension level who have had to pay the price in order for married and cohabiting people to get more. We have today had a hearing in Stortingen on the social security bill, and there were only two organisations that met. The others may have given up, but the message was still clear: the organisations want to deal with the social security situation in Stortinget in the usual way. In the Question Time of 1 June this year, the Council of State stated in reply to the undersigned that the social security scheme is being implemented as before. No, it doesn't. It's not coming to Stortinget until almost six months after it's finished, despite the statements from the Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party here in the Stortinget on treatment in the usual way. So what's happened since that time? Has there been a performance in the matter, or does both parties of government, the Party of Advancement and the Right, now believe that the desire of pensioners for the treatment of landfill is a completely unreasonable claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e884	The way in which pensions are regulated was proposed by the previous government, adopted by the Stortinget, and this government has decided to remain loyal to the regulation of the Stortinget. So the regulation of pensions happens the same way as before. Social security arrangements and social security discussions are carried out in the same way as before. The size of the case is presented with statistics and protocols to a greater extent than before. So the difference is when in the year Stortinget gets informed of the matter, and where the allocation is posted. So there are no changes in reality for the pensioners' economy, and everything else is carried out in exactly the same way as under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e892	‘A crowded community economy is giving municipalities major challenges in providing good enough services to our older people. Elder care is under strong pressure in many places, documented by the elderly themselves, their relatives and employees in the sector. How can the Council of State view the elderly in the eyes of the country and defend that this government deprioritises the care of the elderly, while at the same time giving large tax cuts to the richest of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e899	The government prioritizes the care of the elderly and gives municipalities better framework conditions than the red-green government in its period of time. In order for municipalities to be able to further develop services, they need financial space for action. Taking into account the additional costs of municipalities related to demography and pensions, we see that the action space for municipalities as a whole is clearly larger under the civil government from 2014 to 2017 than it was under the red-green from 2011 to 2013. Even when we compare the actual development of free income, the speech of the figures is clear. The average annual real growth rate for municipalities in the period 20l3–2016 was 2.2 pst., while under the red-green ones from 2009–2013 it was 1.4 pst. If we look at the real growth per capita, it was on average 1.1 pst. in the years 2013 to 2016, against only 0,1 pst. under the red-greens from 2009 to 2013. The municipal operating performance in 2015 was the best since 2006, and there is good reason to assume that the operating performance will be at least as good in 2016 as last year. That means that the municipalities have a better room for action under the bourgeois government than they had under the red-green. In addition to strengthening the economic space of municipalities in order to improve the services of the elderly and others, the government has strengthened care services through a number of state measures. The Government will assume greater responsibility for the capacity and quality of care services. We've increased the average state grant rate per day from 35 pst. to 50 pst. of the maximum installation cost per site. The government is now taking half the investment cost. In 2014, we increased the commitment framework for the scheme by €1.85 billion. kr in addition to the previous government proposal and provided both an increase in the grant share, an increase in grants to press areas and the possibility of a grant of 2 500 places. This strengthening has been followed up in the budgets for both 2015 and 2016. In 2017, we continue the increased grant rate and propose a commitment framework that facilitates the creation of 1,800 places. We have also provided several thousand day activities for people with dementia in the period 2014-2017. In addition, we are now implementing an important community reform. This means that the communities now joining together strengthen their professional environments, strengthen their skills and provide the best basis for providing better services to citizens in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e912	I'm dealing with the reality that's out there. One hits employees, one hits relatives, and one sees older people who don't get the help they need. One sees a strong pressure on this service. What's clear about the numbers is that this government over time has given $6 billion. kr in property tax code. It is equivalent to 6,000 nursing homes or 7 000 to 8 000 nurses. These are the priorities of this government. The question is simply how the Council of State can defend the government's redistribution policy with great tax cuts to those who have the most when you see what it leads to, namely, greater differences and welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e919	Well, the last one is not right. The reality is that the bourgeois government has given the municipalities greater space for action than the red-green power. In addition, values must be created before they are shared. There was something former prime minister from the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, that we have to lay a foundation for value creation in order to increase the well-being of Norway. It is obvious that something has happened to the Workers' Party after Jens Stoltenberg left. When we lower the tax on Norwegian jobs, it is to give Norwegian workers a job to go to, make sure that more people have a job and facilitate value creation. It is the main basis for welfare in municipalities. Our government has been able to facilitate business better, so that we can lay a good foundation for well-being and growth in the future, while at the same time giving the municipalities an increased economic space compared to what the red-green government was able to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e924	The dynamic effects of the tax policy of the Right are impossible to find out, and it also confirms all the disciplines. In addition, it can be added that the Workers' Party's alternative state budget represents a strengthening of the local economy by over 2 billion. kr. There may be a lot of good care for the elderly. I remember a slogan called 'People, not billions'. I think it was a good slogan, it was a slogan that the Right used in front of the previous election. It is true that history shows that when the Right is talking about welfare and tax, it is largely about tax cuts. That's what's real in this period as well. My final question is whether we can expect more tax cuts for the billionaires, rather than more and more needed resources for, among other things. care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e933	It does not seem that the representative hears what I am saying in my posts. In fact, the bourgeois government has given greater financial space to the municipalities than you had under the red-green government. This means that municipalities have a larger room to prioritise care for the elderly. Let me make Freddy de Ruiter's words to mine: I relate to the world out there. Why should Norwegian jobs be taxed more heavily than foreign owned jobs? We want Norwegian jobs to be able to compete equally with those owned by non-residents in Norway. That is why we are reducing the taxes on wealth, because we believe that Norwegian jobs should not suffer worse in competition. What the representative called a slogan, ‘People, not billions’, has given us content precisely by providing a basis for more care, more well-being and more competence in municipalities – and that is what we see as positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e945	‘Roadpack E6 Helgeland North, the route Korgen–Bolna, has been proposed in the budget for 2017 to reduce to an extent to stay within the initial cost framework. This was surprising when it was said in the 2016 budget to return to the exceedance of an estimated 480 million. kr. I am familiar with the work of looking at opportunities to find a solution locally. Will the Council of State support such an initiative by awaiting a conclusion on a reduction in the scope of the implementation of the revised budget 2017?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e952	The government is committed to building the most possible road, as far as possible, as quickly as possible, but also as cheap as possible. We need more money. It has been reflected in the budgets we have submitted for the fourth year now, by the fact that the road budget will be nearly 10 billion. kr higher in 2017 than it was in 2013. We are committed to ensuring that in the event of cost exceedances, we need to find out what is the challenge, and what we can do to reduce costs, so that we get the best possible implementation of the road project and provide road users with the best possible offer. I'm open to evaluating all the alternative solutions that are coming to bring down the costs. We've already asked the State Road Administration to take a round with the contractor. If local authorities have proposals for alternative solutions and they say with their local knowledge that it may be possible to do something different – do something else here – and that covers our transport needs, yes, we absolutely need to discuss it. On the other hand, it's important that it happens quite quickly. Some time has already been spent on this, so if local actors – whether local politicians, businesses or others – are involved, they should contact Vegvesen as soon as possible. The investment that the government has made in North Norway has been formidable. In the last four years, it was used around 4.5 billion. total national road investment. In this period, we've spent over 12 billion dollars. kr. That almost means a triple in the bet. For the first time in many decades, a downturn on the road network reduces – not only in northern Norway but across the country. This means that the roads are in a slightly better condition overall at the end of the year, than when the year began – unlike in the past, when the roads were in a slightly worse condition at the end of the year. It is simply a matter of priority. I know that the Workers' Party would say that this was also planned. Yeah, I'm sure that's right. They'd probably planned it for decades. The problem was that it was never implemented. After following the debate that has been on Helgeland, about the road trip there, I'm a little surprised, because we spend almost 1 billion. kr for E6 in 2017, but the representative Juvik and others give the impression that Helgeland is completely forgotten. I think that billion is more than what the previous government spent on Helgeland in the corresponding eight-year period. Obviously, today's government hasn't forgotten Helgeland. What's also interesting is to see that in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, there's not one extra crown for road construction. On the contrary, they cut the road effort nationally by several hundred million dollars while increasing the toll by 0.5 billion dollars. kr in addition to what the government has proposed, and increases the charges for the drivers by nearly 3 billion. kr. So from the point of view of traffic, you get a But all the measures taken locally to reduce the costs will be warmly received from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e967	First, I'm glad that the Council of State will sit down to find solutions for Helgeland North, and I agree that the sooner you do it, the better it is. But after the information I have, the last option is in June because the contracts have to be adjusted to the next harvest in order to get to port. It is at least the window that is presented to me. This is the case, even though the Council of State says so many times, that the Labour Party had at least as much in all its budgets as this government – even more so. To form a picture of something else I think you should stay too good at. I think the sanctuaries are very happy with this billion, but it's now such that when it becomes a cut, it's fast what you focus on. It is also the case that this investment was in the transport plan. But once again, can you, and will the Council of State be involved, spend time until the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e976	I've already answered that, and I answered very positively. In all road projects where you have challenges, and so far in all road projects anyway, I want to involve local actors at an earlier stage, but it's especially important when you're experiencing problems. Just a few weeks ago, I had several of the medium-sized entrepreneurs in Norway in my office just to discuss how we could make the projects better with their early involvement. Several of them asked for total enterprise, several of them asked for participation already from the design of the project – an approach that I see that the trade movement with which the Workers' Party cooperates strongly criticizes, but which the entrepreneurs themselves believe is important. It's not right, as the representative Juvik says, that today's opposition, with the Workers' Party at the head, gives more money to go than the government. In the working party's alternative budget, which they presented a week ago, there is a net cut in road appropriations, a sharp increase in car-related taxes and an increase in tolls. So instead of coming up with empty words, you should actually deal with what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e983	That's not right. But the Helgeland road package is more than north. It also goes south, and there is also a package for Brattås-Lien, which has not received any funding for 2017. I just want to remind the Council of State that to a question from me in 2014, the Council of State wrote: “I can assure that the government’s ambition is to follow this up.” And: “It is aimed at starting up Helgeland South in 2015 and Brattås-Lien in 2016.” It has not happened, and in addition, E6 Helgeland South is waiting because of the root of the budgetary process, which will cost the state hundreds of millions. I think it'll be clarified. But my question concerns something that is important in order to complete the whole E6 Helgeland: When can you expect that it will start with the distance that is outside the road development contracts, i.e. the one that is from Kappskarmo to Brattås-Lien, on which it was promised to start in 2016? This has not happened, nor is it in the budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e988	Let me clear up a manifest misunderstanding: in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, one is proposing to cut 350 million. NOK to new roads, one proposes to cut 25 million. kr to highways, and one proposes to cut around 229 million. kr to the Public Road Administration in general. So you're proposing to increase the appropriations by 300 million. kr. But the summation of the cuts to new roads is greater than the allocations to e.g.: highway and road safety. A simple calculator would show that there's a net cut on the roadside. We can then end that debate. In the case of Helgeland South and Brattås-Lien, it is quite clear in the proposition adopted by the Stortinget that you start with Helgeland South, and then you take the other one very quickly afterwards. That's exactly what it says, and that's what we're going to do. But I remind you that when you point out that something has been in the national transport plan, the Workers' Party gives the impression that it will then be automatically implemented. Brattås-Lien was also in the national transport plan for the previous four-year period, without the Workers' Party spending one penny on building something on that road section. We're going to get started, and that's why I'm proud that we're implementing the Workers' Party planla without implementing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1004	This question falls because the representative is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1012	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In NRK Sogn and Fjordane’s morning broadcast, one day on the right could say that work on planning E39 between Byrkekelo and Sandane has not been started on the part of the State Road Administration. A year ago, a local joint transport committee held 1 million. kr to repair the neck of the bottle on the route. I asked written questions to the Council of State about the matter on 23 October, but asked the Council of State to elaborate on the following: When will a plan be launched and follow up the Storting's decision from 2015?»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1021	Thank you for the question. As I wrote in my reply on 27 October, a work was started and used approx. One million. kr to plan. What I think is interesting in the matter is that local actors come and say that they feel that the Road Administration has planned something different, bigger and more expensive than what they really need locally, and it makes them fear that the project will be more expensive and therefore not implemented. It has made me sit down and take a round with our professionals to find out what is actually planned, and I have now sent a letter to the Vegvesen in the region and said that they will contact local authorities and local actors to see if there are views on solutions that can be simpler and cheaper and more realistic to implement quickly, to see what the costs are. I think that's a way to get the Road Service out of a better dialogue than what seems to have been. We get several actors who can join in and find solutions that make the two bottlenecks that we're talking about here get a solution. I remember myself driving up and visiting my family on Sandane as a 5- to 6-year-old, and the same problems we experienced then still experience. So we've spent almost 40 years doing nothing but reasphalting a couple of times. Trying to find better solutions than what you've done before, getting a little out of your usual perceptions of what you actually need, and looking at what's necessary, I hope we get through the order we sent to the local road office.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1032	I thank you for your answer. It is positive that one now, one year after the decision was taken, will look at the solutions pointed out by the Transport Committee, because in their comments – and what was agreed in Stortinget – it was said that it was the bottlenecks that were to be planned, it is the ones that are precarious, and the rest of the distance can take one more time later. We're talking about two bottles that are on a couple of hundred meters left, and that are approx. 200 meters from each other – the one is called Gullkista and the other Jarbrugda. Then it's strange that the State Road Service has planned something completely different. Why has the Council of State not followed up on what was an entirely clear and clear intention of a consensual decision without the Stortinget being a ringing bell for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1039	I believe that Vegvesenet has done the job they were initially asked to do – they have looked at the two bottles of Gullkista and Jarbrugda. They have said that their estimate has been that one has to build the tunnel both places, and that it will cost 700 million. kr for one tunnel and 500 mill. kr for the second tunnel. What's new now is that one gets the debate where one local says that one thinks it's possible to do this in a simpler, better and cheaper way -- maybe not quite so big tunnels, maybe a little different solutions. It means that when you get that thrust locally, I think it's interesting to look at it again. Often, too, the requirements of the locals that what the Road Service is building are too cheap and too short, and when someone actually gets a constructive idea that one can do it another way, through the posted NRK, I will definitely follow it up. But we have also checked with Vegvesenet locally whether they have received any direct enquiries about whether they could do things in another way. They don't. So the signals that NRK has now communicated, I very much appreciate. But it would have been okay if they had come directly to the State Road Service instead of via the media, so the Vegvesen had done that job earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1046	I thank you again for your answer. According to the protocols from this room, there is no doubt about what has been meant by the Storing. The Transport Committee explicitly stated that one should improve the two bottlenecks, and set aside 1 million. kr. I think the draft from December 2015 where local politicians cheered loudly, and the one before and after was in the media and told me what one had done to get this to. One was even so optimistic that one thought that here a plan should be made so quickly that the project will enter the promise position of the 2017 budget. It could not be misunderstood. What the Council of State says now, does that mean that the State Road Administration has simply not interpreted the decisions taken by the Storting, correctly, and can the Council of State now guarantee that it will be followed closely from the department's side?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1053	I think a drawing is a little bit of a wrong picture. The road service has done what they were asked for, and we have read well the notes, which also the Progress Party and Right people locally have been very happy about, to repair the two bottlenecks. There was not a crown inside to build this; there were no assumptions from Stortinget to build. When someone gets a project that would have cost 1.2 billion. kr, I ask that the representative Navarsete would say which other project would be pushed back in line to speed this up, for which the red-green government did not lift a finger for the eight years the red-green government crashed. After having known a problem for 40 years, it's very easy to expect, as soon as you don't have any influence, that others have to solve it. I think the representative Navarsete knows it's a little more complicated than that. We've actually followed up this, but what I said is interesting here, is that one says that we might not need the solution that the Road Service has outlined; maybe we can make it simpler, better and cheaper. If we get something that costs significantly less, then there's a much higher chance that the Storting, when it comes to prioritizing the national transport plan, will raise this project higher, if it costs a few hundred million dollars, than if it costs a few billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1063	‘We can read in several media that many people experience not having published newspapers on Saturdays after the Poster closed its offer on this day. This is contrary to Storting's intention. An overall committee stated: ‘The Committee will ask the Ministry to follow up the intention of the law and ensure that a good solution is put in place to ensure access to paper newspapers on Saturdays throughout the country.’ How will the Council of State ensure that newspapers are distributed on Saturdays?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1070	Thank you for the question. For me, it is very important that we ensure that the newspaper distribution on Saturdays works. It has been our intention from day one. When the volume of letters sent by the Post has been more than halved in a few years – and especially on Saturdays – the Post has said that they can save around 400 million. kr do not want to distribute the post when there is almost nothing to distribute. But we've said that in this context, it's still important that the Saturday papers come out, because it's fresher, unlike a bill, which can wait until Monday. In that process, it was important to know: where is it that we need a government offer that covers where the newspapers today do not have newspaper offers? About 85 pst. So the newspapers are distributed by their own newspapers, and in particular by a company called Helthjem, which is an association of Schibsted, Amedia and some other newspapers, where they have created one distribution company, instead of each newspaper has its own newspapers. In 2014, we had a hearing on this. In 2015, we had an open meeting. The whole thing was getting input from all the newspapers by asking, where do they have coverage themselves? Where does the State have to buy this extra service? About 85 pst. Of the papers said we're dealing with this ourselves. About 15 pst. So we had to slow down, especially in the districts. Based on the recordings we got from existing newspapers, we put up a bid, went out to the market and said, "These are areas where we need newspaper distribution on Saturdays, who can provide the best and cheapest service? Based on that, a contract was awarded to a company called Kvikkas, who would work with Norpost to get to this. So this happened this summer. Then we see that only two months ago the papers started their project, because they also needed to convert newspapers on Saturdays – but they started that only two months ago. We've been doing this for almost two years. What we see is that in some of the areas where the papers had initially told the National Communications Authority that they had coverage themselves, we were told so late that only ten days before this came into force, that they obviously didn't have coverage in Finnmark anyway. That's where the state has to be. Doing such a job in ten days is quite challenging when one knows how big Finnmark is, how many single subscribers there are, and what it requires of the system in retrospect. Some places this works well. Some places obviously don't work well, it's just reading the newspapers. Then we've made sure that Kvikkas, Hel home and the locals have to sit down, they have to sort out the mailing lists. It's just 40 pst. of the good quality mailing lists. That means there's a little too much guess for the newspaper messengers on where to go. There are too many incompatible files. Kvikkas has not even received good enough bids, otherwise it works well. We're doing this process, and we're going to make it work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1089	Thanks for the answer. It's a shame to say that I was very calm. Kvikkas is, as far as I know, a company that is completely without previous experience of newspaper distribution. Now we have had another Saturday after my question was submitted, but unfortunately it shows very little improvement on the second Saturday. The newspapers lose subscribers, they lose advertising revenue because Saturday newspapers are very attractive as advertising space, and a very small proportion that was previously distributed through the Post has received it and would like it only in the center and not in the alleys. This is contrary to the decision of mass destruction, where an overall committee was clear that everyone should have Saturday newspapers on Saturday. Why was the Saturday stay discontinued from Posten's page before there was a good alternative in place? And wasn't it pretty naive to think that a company without the experience of newspaper distribution and without local knowledge would be able to solve this? When can we expect this to be done, so that Saturday newspapers are in place on Saturdays for all subscribers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1096	I am concerned that we should find solutions, and that is why we have been committed by the department to the process, but we also know that there is good contact between the newspapers themselves and with Kvikkas. Some places have been solved a lot in the week that went on. Delivery quality increased significantly from the last Saturday to this Saturday, but it is also obvious that some places, especially in parts of Telemark, parts of More and Romesdal and some other, more restricted districts, are still not in place. Kvikkas points out that it is somewhere that the bids have not been good enough, in some places that they have simply not received a bid to do the job. But we should also remember that of the 45,000 newspapers that the newspaper industry itself points out that there are problems, only 6,000 belong to Kvikkas. Three times as many belong to the newspaper's own responsibility, as they themselves have said was their task. And for some newspapers, one has also had problems that one has not been able to access the Post Office mailboxes. So the last thing we're going to do is we're going to solve for it. Mercury has significantly reduced the number by 6,000, and we also believe that media companies themselves will have reduced them by around 18 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1101	Local newspapers have many subscribers all over the country. Studies, work or work as a representative make you move on, but the locality may be even more important to them to keep in touch with the people of your home. These days, we are experiencing letters from the local authorities where it says – for example. in the magazine of Rome – that, unfortunately, Saturday newspapers cannot be delivered anymore because the Post has closed the Saturday stay. These are central addresses like Stortinget, Karl Johansgate, Oslo. In the debate on new postal laws, the Council of State said: ‘We shall ensure that the instruments necessary are used, and we shall be able to cooperate with the newspapers and ensure that the coverage that is remains.’ How has the Council of State intended to fulfill the promise that everyone will have their Saturday paper on Saturday, including long-distance subscribers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1113	Now we have to remember the introduction here. It was that the state would take responsibility where the papers themselves did not have a bid. So it's about 15 pst. That's what Kvikkas needs. Many of those who experience problems experience problems where the paper has already had bids, but where one has not prepared himself well enough, because one arrived too late. So we're not going to drive and blame each other, but we have to sit down and figure out how to solve these challenges. I think the representative himself shows that it is wrong to point out Kvikkas in this context when one says that one does not get the newspaper for Stortinget. I am reasonably sure that there is a newspaper delivery system that works well here, among other things. because the evening post is distributed. Then it's a little bit about the media houses themselves not actually coordinating this newspaper distribution where the newspapers themselves say they have a courier network that works. Then it is not the state that is responsible, but it is the newspapers themselves that are responsible. I have said that for the 6,000 of the 45 000 where Kvikkas is responsible, I feel a special responsibility. Where the mailbox access is missing, I feel a special responsibility, because the post office is also state-owned. But for those who are the newspaper messenger centre's own system, the newspapers themselves have to take responsibility for making their system work. We have to work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1125	‘Quality of life for older people is concerned, among other things, with the possibility of leaving home. Many older people are unable to drive their own cars or make use of the ordinary collective service, but depend on scheduled transport. The size has adopted a step up of the national TT scheme. Why has the Council of State not done more to make the system of organised transport a national system for all the counties so that more elderly people receive a better offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1132	Thank you for the question. It is a very important theme, and I am at least proud that today's government, with the good help of the Christian People's Party – not least – and the Left, has done more in this field than the previous government has. I think it is worth stressing when a representative of a former government party is standing and is impatient for something that they did not even raise a finger for. The municipalities and the municipality of Oslo are initially responsible for the local collective service, and this responsibility includes TT transport as one of these concerns. And it's the county councils and the Oslo municipality that approve users and determine the scope of the transport offer that you're going to give to authorised users. The funding of TT schemes is initially carried out through transfers to the counties in the free revenues. Thus, the system that the Workers' Party and the majority have led so far has been that it governs the counties. So today's government, with the Christian People's Party as a good supporter and driving force, and also with the Left, has made sure that we extend the arrangement beyond what has been before. We've allocated 22 million. kr in the 2016 budget for grants to obtain an extended scheme in some counties. This is strengthened in the 2017 budget, and we also know that the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget wants further support. But it is not that there is no TT offer today. It does it in all states. But it is the Workers' Party that actually sits and can control this in all the states that they govern, and if one believes it is not good enough, the Labour Party in the Storting should actually address its County Conferences with its Workers' Party Members' rapporteurs why they do not carry out that task and the responsibilities they have. Today's majority in the United Kingdom ensures that an even more consistent approach is being adopted, with three to four counties now having a more national standard. We've worked well with user organisations to get this in a good way to preserve the good experience we've had in a trial project, and look at how we can expand it in a way that makes it predictable for those who get the offer. It doesn't make sense if we're going to spread it all over the country, but have a month here and a month there. That's why we're using geographical boundaries that are gradually being expanded. So in 2017, we're going to spend 45.2 million. kr on this scheme. It is in addition to the growth that has been in the allocations to the counties in order for them to take care of what is initially their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1145	I record that the Council of State does not take responsibility for the TT system at all, and that he shifts responsibility in front of and over to the counties. He thankes the Christian People's Party and the Left for good help, and that's all there is to do, when the government parties themselves for the current year suggested about a pen stroke to cancel the entire allocation to the TT system. I can inform the Council of State that the Workers' Party has proposed to allocate $22.5 million. kr more to the TT scheme than the government does in its draft government budget for next year. We see that the number of older people in traffic is increasing, and at the same time they have new requirements for extending the driving licence – which are also stricter requirements – and many older people are now being deprived of their driving licence when they reach the age of 75 because they do not have a valid medical certificate. I have to ask again: why does the Council of State deprive older people of the opportunity to be mobile when he breaks the TT system in this way? The government chooses to prioritize tax cuts in the billions class to them with the most from before instead of spending tens of millions on older people actually getting out of their homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1154	It does not improve the country by taxing Norwegian jobs, as the Labour Party does — at least not when you spend the entire tax revenue on saving it in oil funds abroad. The working party increases the property tax by 3.9 billion. kr, and they save $4 billion. kr on oil funds abroad. It does not provide better services to the elderly in the country. On the other hand, this is what the government budget does, where, in four years' time, we have proposed to grant 4.8 billion. kr for collective investment in the largest cities, while the Workers' Party, when they had higher taxes, only granted SEK 1.8 billion. kr for the same offer. It is said that we are breaking the TT system, a TT system that the Workers' Party has not even proposed for eight years, but which is now actually in place in four counties, in good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. I think we should honor those who are the driving force behind this. The working party has not been a driving force. How can we break the line that the Workers' Party was against for eight years? I think it's pretty clever. County councils now have a better economy than they've had in ten years. The TT scheme has more money than 10 years. Collective action in cities is greater than in many years. I think we'll enjoy that instead of criticizing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1161	I don't think you're doing the country any better by giving 25 billion. kr more in tax cuts to them with the most from before instead of distributing the money in a much better way. In fact, we have a political desire to travel seamlessly in our transport systems today. That's our goal. That is why universal design has also been important to us in the Workers' Party. It's about getting off and on means of transport and not being carried on aircraft, for example. It's about dignity, and it's about self-sufficiency. Now we see that the transport modes propose in the basic documents of the NTP that universal design should be reduced from being a primary objective to becoming a stage goal under Prosperity. I think that this proposal is sad. Is the Council of State able to guarantee that universal design remains a primary objective when he submits the government's proposal to the NTP to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1166	Now I think conflicts are created there is no basis for them, and there can be no other goal than to create dissatisfaction. At least it doesn't provide good solutions. We have said that universal design is one of our important objectives, precisely to ensure mobility for all is important. That's why we're building better roads, so we're building better railways, so we're upgrading the ports, which are overdue for eight years under the previous government, and that's why we're building better collective services: more rail departures, a better TT system, which means that those who need organized transport get it to a much greater extent than before. Creating dissatisfaction gives the impression that this is not important to us, when we actually show that there is now much greater commitment to universal design, to the organization of people who are blind, and to people who are deaf. I think that's something we're going to enjoy instead of painting black. It is also completely wrong when the Workers' Party gives the impression that we have used 25 billion. kr on tax reliefs to the richest. This is about ensuring that ordinary cars become available to more people, so that they can choose environmentally friendly. This is about lower taxes and taxes on people's income and ensuring that students can have higher credit card limits. I don't think the students are among the billionaires in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1178	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Oslo City Council has an area plan for Gjersrud-Stensrud for treatment, where a substantial part of the plan deals with the landfill of the masses from Folloban. The railway works need a decision before the new year, but now some in the city council are threatening a new regulatory issue. Will the Council of State contribute to the management of the plan to ensure the progress of the Folloban?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1187	We want to participate and contribute as much as we can to find a solution in this matter, but I naturally cannot go in and override the municipality of Oslo. It is red-greenly directed – it is those who must ensure that they have progressed in their decisions and regulatory plans. The alternative is that we introduce state plans for almost everything. Then we can override. But in a process that is already in progress, I think it will take more time than we save, and therefore my recommendation is that the Municipality of Oslo does this job as quickly and as well as possible, so that we do not get into a situation where, in the absence of landfill clearance, you have to start to ship the rock far away. It is not a good environmental solution, it is not good for the transport network, nor is it good resource policy. My recommendation, then, is that the Oslo City Council should take action on this matter and have the necessary decisions taken. The alternative is that we have to put the expansion of the Follobane project on hold. I think that would be dramatic. It's a project for over 20 billion. kr. There are four tunnel drills now, or soon, in operation. Having so much capital standing because you can't do anything with the rock you cut off, it would be dramatically expensive. We must ensure that an approved landfill control plan is put in place. We hope it can come already this month. If it doesn't get in place, the Railway Agency says they have to start looking at an external landfill. I hope for the longest time that we can avoid that, and I think we have that in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1196	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with almost everything he now says, for that is something of my point. The Railway Agency and the Municipality of Oslo have actually come to an agreement, and the Railway Agency needs, as the Council of State also stresses, a decision before Christmas. But it is the opposition in Oslo City Council, which consists of the bourgeois parties and the Red Party, which is now proposing to split the plan in two, and to promote a new regulatory case for the depository. It will mean that the development of the area and the landfill are seen as two separate issues. It is not advisable to do so legally. But what is more important, as the Council of State also stresses, is that this could lead to a postponement that puts the Railway Agency in an impossible situation. What I now ask the Council of State is really: will he, or can he, contact the government's party traps in Oslo, so that we can have a flexibility in this decision, so that the progress of the Folloban project is ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1203	At an early stage, the Railway Agency itself proposed to split the regulatory plan in two just to ensure good progress. Then Oslo wouldn't be in on it. Then I see that things are changing now, but I remember there's a red-green majority in Oslo City Board. Red is a support party for the City Council. Then I believe that the City Council, which would not share this plan in the past, must find a good solution. We just recommend from where we sit the Municipality of Oslo that one get adopted this regulation plan, so that one does not have to transport the mass far away. Then we ourselves know that the Labour Party in the election campaign really wanted to postpone the entire Folloban project, because one would explore the possibility of having a station in that tunnel. I strongly warned against that. But we see that there have been a little too many political games around the project from local politicians, with the Labour Party at the head, about this. That is why I hope that we can now at least get the decisions that will allow you to use the mass locally and not transport it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1212	If I now interpret the Council of State in the best possible sense, he might try, under the hand, to check what's going on in Oslo City Council and at least do his own as Council of State for this to go according to plan. Because that's what the council said, that the consequence of not dealing with this plan before Christmas, is that the railway works are starting to run out of the mass from Folloban. And it will mean, at least according to my sources in Oslo City Council, that between 200,000 and 300,000 truckloads of slag will have to be driven through the city, and it is absolutely right that it will be very unfortunate in the environment. Then we also lose the opportunity to get a new urban development area, which has a potential for 10,000 dwellings and 4,000 jobs. It's a fantastic urban development plan. I'm not going to bother the Council of Transport States with that, but I hope he'll do his job as Council of State for this to work out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1219	I'm going to do everything in my power as a state council to make sure we find solutions here. But it's basically the municipality of Oslo that has to take these decisions. Then I hope and believe that they will cooperate well with the Railway Agency on that. I also think this is an amazingly exciting area for driving urban development. There were some discussions last year, for example. to establish a station in the Folloban Tunnel, Åland Station, for which the Workers' Party was very concerned and which would expose the entire project. I am glad that nothing has happened, and that the Workers' Party has not taken it up. What I think is much more sensible, is that one works together on solutions that Router has outlined, where one can look at other solutions, or that one looks at today's Eastfold Railway as a local trainway, which will ensure that one gets good communication opportunities in this area. When I look at Router, I think it's one of the most progressive collective societies in this country. They should be absolutely involved in developing solutions both east and west of Oslo to develop new areas, which have been difficult today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1232	This question, from the representative of Per Rune Henriksen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1237	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘How will the Council of State ensure that the necessary consideration of the now globally endangered species of wild fauna and the need for the species for large barrier-free habitats in Hardangervida is taken into account in the issue of road links east-west?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1244	Thank you for the question. It is one of the many important reasons to take care of both when building a road project individually, and not least when looking at the whole of East-West connections. I notified for approx. Two and a half years ago, we did not have to look at four-five highways east-west, but channel our investments on one or two routes, so that when we spend money to reduce travel time, we make one or two roads faster and better than the others, so that heavy traffic, the main traffic, chooses the routes instead of spreading thinly. So I said at the same time that it means that all the road sections that we have today also have good, important local and regional purposes where we need to ensure road safety, road safety, uptime, etc., which means that they should not be forgotten, but it is not like where a person spends the money to reduce travel time. Based on that, several investigations were started. One of them was a so-called concept selection investigation and relates to the links between the East and the West. In the recommended Vegvesenet we sketched two main roads. One is E134, and the other is rv. 52 over Hemsedal, which includes parts of E16 and parts of Rv. 7th@item: inlistbox For the Hardanger range, this priority meant that the Vegvesen did not recommend the development of a long tunnel where, since it was not supposed to be a main trasé, but they thought that there should be some minor improvements to ensure, among other things, that. Travel life and wild fauna. This became more detailed in the concept selection investigation for rv. 7, which is the one that crosses the Hardanger range, and there were the challenges with the wild train on the Hardanger range. The road system concluded that one should build a shorter tunnel there, the Tieranut tunnel, which would probably solve the problem of wild rain in a satisfactory way. There's a tunnel about 6 km. This is part of what we're working on, and we're looking at the whole thing when we're working on the National Transport Plan. We need to look at how a tunnel solution, short or long, will ensure that one at least reduces the problems that exist, and is able to provide for the accessibility of road users, but not least the need for low and range of movements of the wild species. As I said, I think this has been done in a good way in the job that Vegvesen has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1257	Thanks for the answer. If we look at the resources of poor countries in East and South Africa, for example. using endangered species such as elephants and rhinoceros, it is quite encouraging to see how low our international obligations for the protection of wild fauna are being weighted when important choices are to be made. Now that the wilderness is listed as a global threat to the nature of the World Union for the Protection of Nature, which happened in August this year, does not the Council of State then agree that the consideration of the wild rain must be given more weight to the final choice of roads? Then I remember that all natural expertise points to the long tunnel as the good measure, as fewer and shorter tunnels open up for more human activity in the areas where the wild train would have preferred to cross rv. 7, in order to access pastures which actually constitute one fifth of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1264	In all road projects, there are many different considerations to be weighed and taken into account. It's also about how much money you spend on which sections. We've said that E134 is one of the two most important routes in terms of travel time reduction. There will be a need for significant investment. If one says that one of the road sections recommended by Vegvesen should not be a major section, yet one should have some of the largest investments, but one really should not facilitate more traffic, then one ends up not necessarily caring for the total environmental interests or the total transport interests. This is one of the things we have to balance with each other in the work on the national transport plan. Now it is during the implementation of a so-called quality assurance report 1, a consultation and the draft selection investigation that goes on the Gol-Voss section, and it is natural that we look at the recordings that come there before we finally conclude. But I also think it is important for all politicians who are calling for action in their fields, that they also say which projects they will give priority to away from other road sections, as I feel that the representative Henriksen is in charge here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1269	It leads me into what's my next question in this, alternative K3 in the concept selection investigation for rv. 7th@item: inlistbox It's about a long tunnel, and that's what makes us go wild. But it has an investment cost of 8.1 billion. kr, and there is no doubt the option that will give the wild cleaner the conditions that the wild rain must have on Hardangervidda today. How much does the Council of State think is the possibility that the government will put forward proposals for the construction of such a long tunnel, when rv. 7 do not have the status of main East-West link?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1274	One of the effects of shifting more of heavy traffic to E134 is that you also relieve rv. 7 in terms of traffic, and it will also relieve you of some of the problems you experience in the wild. Then I also record that the Vegvesen itself believes that the short tunnel they have proposed will be sufficient to meet the needs of the wild train. There I perceive that the representative Henriksen has a different view and is willing to spend more money on this. That means there's less money to solve other challenges, and that's part of the overall priority we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1290	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1299	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘I Prop. 1 S from the Ministry of Health and Health it is set up to apply proton treatment and health businesses are given the task of establishing a proton centre by 2022. The Boards of all four health establishments have decided that if a centre is to be built, ‘it would be natural to start the development in Oslo’. The urgent introduction of proton therapy will improve radiation treatment for many cancer patients and time and resources should not be used in the localisation debate. Does the Council of State support the view of health establishments that the first centre should be built in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1308	The government will ensure the establishment of proton treatment in Norway. Such an establishment is a major promise, and the government has put forward proposals on how to finance such a centre in the draft government budget for 2017. In December 2015, regional health establishments were commissioned to conduct conceptual investigations for the establishment of one or two proton centres in Norway by 2022. In addition, it was considered that different capacity options should be explored. Particulate therapy and proton therapy are relatively new, and in all countries that have established the drug, there has been a great deal of uncertainty and discussion about patient backgrounds and indications for treatment. It also applies in the Norwegian process. The government believes that there is an advantage to the gradual upgrading of proton capacity in Norway. Then we can gain national and international experience, and we can take advantage of technological developments in this area. The planning so far of proton centres has not been part of the established management system for investments in health enterprises. It is the former and present government that has initiated and prioritised this, and there has been no framework for the establishment of proton treatment in Norway. At the business meeting in January 2017, health regions will be required to carry out an additional investigation, based on a staged development – with clear framework conditions for the implementation of the project. If Stortinget joins the leaders in the 2017 state budget, health regions will then know that proton treatment should be established with 30 pst. State grants and 70 pst. loan financing. They've got 75 million. kr to implement the next phase of planning. It will provide a better basis for decision-making on the way in which the first centre is to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1323	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to stress that it is very good that we now take a big step further, and decide that a proton center will be built in Norway. There will be 77 such centers throughout the year around the world. Norway would prefer to be in the first row, but here we are ‘a little on the heel’ when it comes to getting started. Sweden has a center in Uppsala that started in 2015 and Denmark gets one in 2018. So we're going to get one in 2022. It has been provisionally estimated in the investigation that it could be about. 1,500 patients who want to benefit from proton therapy, and 270 are certain. I understand that the Council of State will take this step-by-step, and that you start building one centre, to which it is added in the State budget. My question is: when all the regional health companies say that if one centre is to be built first, you should start in Oslo, why can't the Council of State now signal that he is in favour of that conclusion, so you don't spend time in that one year more?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1332	The assessments and investigations carried out by health regions up to now have been carried out without knowing the conditions of establishment. What the government is now clarifying in the state budget is the economic conditions under which the creation of proton centers should take place. The economic conditions differ from such a usually financing investment in health regions by receiving 30 pst. in direct grants from the State – they will not have to finance 30 pst. through self-financing, as usual – and the remaining 70 pst. the financing of loans. The two current locations of the first centre are either Oslo or Bergen. But we also need to be able to look at which of the concepts that health regions themselves take responsibility for, which are feasible within the framework that they now know. They will now receive money for that, and the process can start in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1339	I thank you for that answer, too, which I did not think went directly to what I asked for. There is a gift package here, because it is a similar decision in four points from all four regional health companies, including Health West, where point 3 states that it would be natural to start the expansion in Oslo if you add one centre first and within a regionalised model. Here you get a gift package by avoiding a localization contest and taking down that ball, when there are four similar decisions from all health regions. The arguments are that the site at the Rikshospitalet scores the highest in a professional assessment, plus that it will be part of the construction project with a new clinic building at the Radium Hospital. This makes it possible to build faster, to have a strong environment for experimental treatment and to look at several areas of proton therapy in the years to come. There are also other arguments, which I am not able to repeat now, but are there other arguments than those contained in this concept phase investigation by health companies, to which the Council of State will place emphasis, as he pushes on the decision on location?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1346	I think the investigation gives good arguments, so that's not the situation. The representative himself used the concept of a 'gift package'. A gift package is something that you get for free, and that you don't have to take into account what costs. That's what's been a bit of the challenge with that model and the investigation of this that former Minister of Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen started, has given us, namely that the investigation has taken place here without the health regions knowing what the economic conditions for the work are. The government has now proposed to Stortinget what should be the financial framework conditions for the investment, and then we will also have a much more qualified assessment of this from health regions – because they understand the economic conditions under which this work will take place. They didn't know that before, so the first investigation showed that one wanted four centers – because then one didn't know who would pay for this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1354	‘In the light of a tight economic situation, a strong review of the structure of the Inland Hospital is now being carried out. There is a risk that the total hospital supply for children and adolescents between 0 and 18 years of age will be moved out of Hedmark County. With the distances it has, and the special needs of children and young people must be met, does the Council of State consider that this will provide a sound and regulatory health service, and will he do something to ensure that this does not become the future hospital offer in Hedmark for them under 18 years of age?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1361	There is no doubt that the Hospital Inland has a demanding distribution of tasks between their hospitals, both professionally and resourcely. I am aware that, in line with the Board’s decision of April 2016, the Hospital Inland is now reviewing various professional areas in order to promote quality and assess the appropriate organisation of services, and to ensure that resources are used as much as possible directly for patient treatment – and this is what the Board refers to as short-term migration measures. The review shall ensure that the operation of the undertaking is sustainable. These are actions aimed at implementing between 2017 and 2020. One of the areas under consideration is the provision of children and young people. The Inland Hospital informs us that whatever the review ends with will be a comprehensive outpatient offer, daily and daily offer to children and young people in Hedmark and Uppland. They have set up an open, involved and predictable process involving the relevant municipalities, user organisations and trustees. The hospital also discloses that only one internal process has been carried out in the enterprise. New guidance for health business development plans contains recommendations on processes around different stakeholders, etc. I assume that the leaders I have given are followed, and that any changes are carried out in a good process and in a professionally sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1370	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State does not decide on this, and I have respect for it, I just have to admit that. But at the same time, I would like to express a great deal of concern about the answer that was now referred from the Hospital Inland, that one is almost left with an outpatient offer, to perhaps the group of patients that I hope the Council of State and the government also perceive as the most vulnerable. Moving into a newborn ward – and it is a good competence that we have in the Inland Hospital related to children and young people, in my opinion – I think we are facing perhaps one of the most vulnerable things we can treat in the health care system, both the child, the family and those who are employed. So my strong call to the Minister of Health on my question is: Won't there be any leaders from the government that will prevent you from getting as long travel routes and a health offer as far as it is outlined here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1375	Hospitals are responsible for assessing how a person organises and offers to the population, which the representative is fully aware of. When making those types of assessments, it is important to have open and inclusive processes that ensure that the different points of view are well lit, are open and can be discussed, and counter-representatives can be presented. One consequence of us demanding that kind of process is that the discussion comes out into the open room. I think that's good, but the fact that the discussion comes out into the open room also leads, of course, to many people becoming anxious and uncertain in those kinds of processes. Unfortunately, we have to live with that, because the alternative is so much worse, namely that that kind of process is done internally, and that one just presents the conclusion at the end. But I expect the Hospital Inland to follow the leaders given for the way in which this kind of process is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1380	I thank you again for the answer, which I see so far on the road can mean that at least you have an understanding that this is sensitive and sensitive. After all, we can face a cancer teenager who today has 20 miles of travel. We can face a family that is struggling in a new birth situation, with 10 to 15 miles of driveway, and we know how demanding it is for both the poor and the parents. It is so demanding that I had expected that the government might tighten something in view of the expectations you had for a physical presence of such an offer, and where you are at risk of imposing a very heavy burden on families – children and young people – with perhaps 20-30 miles of driveway to an offer that you must constantly keep up. One of the options available to the Council of State is to contribute to the actual increase in hospital appropriations, such as: The Labour Party proposes, and avoids anyone coming into this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1385	Distance is, of course, a quality in healthcare, and the need to be close to services is important. But that's not the only quality. Competence, the size of the professional environments, the security of the offer provided are other important qualities, not least of which patients and user organisations are concerned. That's the whole picture that decides. Some of these services that the Hospital Inland is currently undergoing also affect the provision of services to municipalities, i.e. the interaction between the specialist health service and the community health service. It is, of course, also important that the municipalities concerned be properly involved in these discussions, because they may have consequences for the municipalities. So it's important that we don't draw conclusions in advance until we know the whole decision base. Therefore, the Hospital Inland must be given the opportunity to carry out these processes in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1397	‘On 16 June 2015, the Government asked to draw up a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector. What is the status of this legal work, will a legislative proposal be submitted for treatment in Stortinget, and what is the estimated time in the case of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1402	I understand that the representative here refers to the Committee's comment on the Storting's discussion of the 'People's Health Communication: Mestring and Opportunities'. The Committee notes that the primary objective of a sectoral law is to regulate what is currently not regulated by law, including the responsibilities between the municipality providing water and sewerage services and the inhabitants as customers of the subscription, and to provide the basis for a comprehensive charging code. The Committee further refers to the Overwater Committee, which was to deliver its investigation on 1 December 2015. I perceive that the proposal for a sectoral law is largely linked to areas other than those resulting from health law, food law and public health law. I am aware that the proposal for a sectoral water and sewerage law has also been promoted as a minority proposal in NOU 2015: 16 from the Overwater Committee. This investigation is now being followed up by the Ministry of Climate and Environment in cooperation with other departments concerned. The committee has proposed changes to a number of laws, regulations and administrative provisions to facilitate better management of overwater in municipalities. The question of a sectoral law will be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1409	Thank you. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the issue is based on a plural note in the suspension of the public health notification, where a joint committee asked for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage kit to be drawn up. The majority relate it to the forthcoming municipal reform, but the entire committee therefore asked for a sectoral law. As I understand the answer from the Council of State, the government will not follow up this plural comment, as the Council of State refers to the NOO, and that this should be reconsidered when the government is going to follow up the NOO that has been submitted. Is that what I'm saying here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1414	No, it is not true that the government does not deal with the committee's comment. The unanimous comment of the Committee on this issue also refers to the Overwater Committee and that they should present their position on 1 December 2015. This setting was ready before the completion of the current job. In this context, the Committee points out that there is a need to clarify functional provisions in the form of a sectoral law for this important service area in the municipalities. That's also what the government is doing. It follows up the NOU work, it's working on it now. What will become the conclusions of the government after the NOU has been consulted – the Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on its follow-up – will come back to the proposals that will be promoted for the Stortinget as a follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1419	Thank you. I still don't fully understand the answer from the Council of State. For me, the Committee's comment is quite clear: the Committee stresses the urgency of introducing more clear and functional specifications in the form of a sectoral law. Now a year and a half have passed since the setting, and I had believed that the government had started working with a sector law, regardless of the NOU that came out, because this is the Stortinget's opinion. Can the Council of State explain whether it is actually such that work on a sectoral law has not started and that the Minister of Health and Health has not taken any independent initiative to follow up the comments of a joint committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1424	Work on the follow-up of the NOU on overwater lies below the Minister for Climate and Environment. I know that work has a high priority, but it is too early to say now when the relevant legislative changes will be promoted for Stortinget. I disagree with a presentation that says that you should start your own work with a sector law on the side of work on the NOU, which deals with that topic, and where a minority in the NOU is just proposing a sector law. It is in this way that legal work is usually done, based on a NOU, the follow-up to the hearing and an independent assessment by the government. The Committee itself also points out the NOU work in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1434	«Health professionals are one of the most important occupational groups in the health and care sector. Never have so many young people chosen a health profession in higher education, but they continue to meet a working life that is unable to offer permanent employment and at least 100 pst. position, although everyone knows that their competence is very much needed. There is little happening in this area despite many good intentions. What will the Council of State do to keep up the work of offering 100 pst. positions of newly trained health professionals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1441	I am very happy that we now see that more and more people want to take this education, because this is a profession that we need in health care. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has said that we will work to reduce the use of involuntary part-time and temporary work in the public sector, as well as to establish a full-time culture in the labour market. The changes in the Working Environment Act, which entered into force in 2015, included: the framework for the averaging of daily and weekly working hours was slightly extended, making it easier to put in place local solutions. It was possible to work longer a few days towards corresponding more free another day. This may facilitate more full-time use. The Employment Committee, NOU 2016: 1, addressed challenges related to shift and turnaround schemes such as: may have an impact on the use of part-time work, and in particular in the health and care sector. The committee proposed changes to the rules on shift and rotation work. These proposals will now be followed up by a working group of social partners. The working group shall identify consensus and disagreement, present system and practice challenges and assess the need for changes in rules or practices. I also know that many municipalities are working to reduce the use of part-time. With this, it is hoped that several municipalities will work actively to reduce the use of part-time in healthcare services, among others. for newly employed health professionals. Hospitals have been working over several years to establish a full-time culture and reduce part-time use. In cooperation with employees’ and employers’ organisations, hospitals have succeeded in increasing their cause-based knowledge base, developing new measures and reducing the use of part-time from 2013 to now in all four health regions, with a reduction of 0.8 pst. in the North of Health, 2,8 p.m. in Health Mid-Norway, 4.7 pst. in Health West and 3.3 pst. in Health south-east. The efforts to reduce part-time use continue in hospitals. One of the challenges is to motivate and facilitate employees in hospitals to choose higher job rates, preferably 100 pst. position. Another challenge is that hospitals should, to a greater extent than at present, offer fully trained health professionals permanent jobs. I will follow this up in the business meeting with the regional health companies in January 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1454	Thanks for the answer. It is a good description, but what we experience when we are in the municipalities is that they lack a greater pressure, because it meant something when we in the mission document showed that we wanted to work to get an increase in the specialist health service. In the municipalities, in ten years, we have been able to increase the proportion that works full time, by just two percentage points, from 44 pst. to 46 pst. The proportion has risen among women and actually declined among men. How can we work even more actively? I also have good examples from the Songdalen on Sørlanden, which with intensive work over two years has managed to increase from 66 pst. to 75 pst. There's something about the pressure that's going on. We are not concerned with overarching the municipalities, but with role models and clarification, and in this room we say that it is important that we take care of the resources and make the best possible use of them. What can we do even better than what we've done up to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1459	As regards health businesses and mission documents, I feel that health businesses continue to experience very clearly that it is a task to reduce the use of part-time. And we see that from the results. In the case of municipalities, the representative knows that it is much more complicated. I do not send mission documents to the municipalities, nor does Stortinget want me to do so. There we are more dependent on each municipality feeling a responsibility for this. As the representative pointed out: there are no good examples. Several municipalities have achieved good results. My experience, after visiting some of those municipalities, is that it's very much about one thing, namely that you have both a political and an administrative management that has a very clear and conscious attitude that this is something you should work systematically with. And if you work systematically with it, you succeed. The government has tried to make some changes to the law. It's going to be interesting to see what the party sample comes to, but otherwise it's simply to point out that this is a big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1468	When so many young people now choose health care – it's really in health care that we've had the biggest increase, and we know that the need is greatest there – I asked the investigation section to go through the five largest cities to see how many of the final teachers had received 100 pst. position. Almost none of the cities were concerned about the relationship between taking in apprentices and that this is a recruitment channel. It was actually just Trondheim who was going to hire five pieces, and Drammen one. You do a job in the specialist health service, but is it about thinking a little more actively towards municipalities, being a role model and highlighting it more clearly? Because there's waste of human resources. It's possible to start with the new kids. They want full-time jobs, at least that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1475	I fully agree with that. It's about lifting up those who succeed in this. It is also important, as the representative was involved, to facilitate apprenticeships. The government has therefore, on every possible occasion, increased the apprenticeship grant, precisely to contribute to it, but also to make the public sector aware of its responsibilities for apprentices. There's something I'm taking up with the hospitals. They also have a responsibility to facilitate apprenticeships for this group. The municipalities do, too. There the county councils have a central role in playing with municipalities and pointing out the responsibilities of municipalities to facilitate apprenticeships, and of course in the next round of full-time positions. We are going to face a major shortage of labour in this sector in the years to come if we do not succeed in changing the situation. An important part of meeting the need will just be providing a full-time culture of health and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1483	‘The Right Party and the Advance Party are clear that they want significantly more privatisation in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, it is a fact that poorer pay and working conditions are one of the strongest competitive advantages of private care providers. Why does the Council of State not think this is a problem, and why does he consider the ideological objective of more privatisation to be more important than to stop this competition based on poor pay and working conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1490	No, that's not right. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not want the privatisation of the care of the elderly. Privatisation means that municipalities rely on private individuals to perform the service, determine the quality and ensure payment. This is not either the Right Party or the Progressive Party. On the other hand, we are committed to ensuring good welfare services for citizens, including: by facilitating an increase in freedom of choice, and thus also greater influence over one's own life. With user choice, we give users more influence over their own everyday life. It could stimulate both the quality of services and the development of the content of services for which municipalities are responsible. One simply gives users not only a right of complaint, but also a right of exchange. Municipalities are committed to providing the best possible services to their citizens, and they have a long tradition of developing welfare services in cooperation with both private and non-profit actors. This creates innovation, freedom of choice and more varied offers. The Government Parties are trailers of competition. The difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party is that we do not have a specific position as to whether it is the municipality, a non-profit or a commercial player who should win that competition. So it's not the government parties, but the Workers' Party, which has an ideological goal, that one here in Oslo will prohibit private operators from using their own logo in hospitals where they have won tenders against the municipality. The working party believes that the care provider is more important than the elderly being given the care they want and are entitled to. I could not have disagreed more. When the Workers' Party took over power in Bergen, Oslo and Tromsø in the autumn of 2015, they initiated one of their most important political issues – no to freedom of choice. Now we see that the elderly in Bergen are deprived of the opportunity to choose the private home help, which has been for 10 pst. hours. In Tromsø, where the Workers' Party cooperates with the Red Party, they are now phased out Privat Omsorg Nord – against large protests from relatives. In Oslo, they are to re-municipalise one of the best hospitals in the city. City Council in Tromsø, Gunhild Johansen from SV, said to the newspaper iTromsø that there is nothing that separates private and municipal providers from home help, and that therefore the municipality would do this itself. When asked why many then chose private services, Johansen replied: ‘They may choose privately for ideological reasons.’ Local politicians from the Workers’ Party and SV may choose who should operate the care services based on ‘ideological reasons’, but I feel quite confident that older users and their relatives do not choose for ideological reasons, but based on what fits best in their lives, and not least that it also gives a value of their own to choose this type of service. But it's the municipality's responsibility, and it's the municipality that has to pay. Therefore, there is no privatisation, as the questioner suggests in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1510	This is a very special attempt by the Council of State to cover up, but also to engage in dialogue on the same topic. He says it's not privatisation, but he's still referring to the invasion of the private sector. In my question, I do not ask questions about privatisation or not, but I say that in the competition that is going on when deciding who is to do the tasks for the municipality, it is a fact that what is the private advantage in the competition with the municipality's own is the pay and working conditions for the employees. That's not what they deliver, it's not quality – it's essentially pay and work conditions for the employees. The question is then: why does the Council not want to say that it is okay that you can compete, the right is for it, but at least we must guarantee decent pay and working conditions for employees? That's the question right there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1519	Of course, private operators acting in Norway should have decent pay and working conditions for their employees. They shall comply with the laws; they shall follow the works of agreement, as all others do. It was just supposed to be missing. When the Workers' Party says that they are to purchase specialist health services in response to offers in the specialist health service, does that mean that the Workers' Party is to privatise hospitals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1526	I had the impression that the questioning process was about the bigots representatives asking questions to the state councils – but it is a recurring trick from this government to ask questions back because you have weak arguments yourself. The Council of State says that there should be decent pay and working conditions. The question is then: is it decent when we see that people who have been employed in municipal hospitals and who move to new, private ones lose DKK 40,000–50,000 a year in pension entitlements, while falling into salary? Is what the Council of State believes is a decent, decent – what should I say – treatment of employees, of people who have provided care to the elderly in Norway through a lifetime, and who end their career with it? If the Council of State wants to label it as decent, it is good treatment of employees, it is the way competition should be, for all things – but I wish the Council of State would come back to Stortinget with a solution to how we do not compete on pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1533	First, it is the municipalities themselves that set the conditions in the tenders they may wish to have. Secondly, if one in Norway works within the framework of the law and the contract work that is, related to both employment and pay, I expect the representative to agree with me that then there is a decent working relationship and a decent salary. This is because we have simply regulated ourselves – both through the law and through the Norwegian agreement – decent relationships in this area, and I assume, of course, that this kind of relationship is not broken. Then I would also like to remind you that nurses, who are the largest group working in nursing homes, have a statutory right to a pension in KLP, completely independent of the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1543	This question, from Øystein Langholm Hansen to the Minister of Health and Care, will be raised by Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1548	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The government’s attempt to finance the care of the elderly so-called state has led many municipalities to refuse to participate, as it has been estimated that they are losing money on the experiment. In the Health Minister's home municipality, Stavanger, Røre's head of the Living Committee, Kåre Reiten, reported that the municipality would have lost several hundred thousand dollars to join. Does the Council of State understand the deep skepticism of its party body in the attempted state-funded care of the elderly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1557	The aim of the pilot scheme is to ensure that users are adequately met and to increase non-discrimination across local borders. In the 2017 state budget, 8 million have been proposed. kr for the investigation, implementation and follow-up evaluation of the experiment. Other funds will be used to improve care services for caregivers. I am pleased that we have been tried with state funding of the care services. It gives us better knowledge that we can use to organise care services in the best possible way in the future. The municipalities say they have learned a lot about their own municipality and operation through this process. They have become more aware of how they organise services and how the individual patient can be cared for. It has a value in itself and will make the municipalities better rusted after the experiment is completed. Furthermore, we have tried out national criteria for who should be entitled to the care and care of the lucky day. It's important for the next step in the introduction of the statutory right to do just that. The experience of the municipalities involved will also be useful for other municipalities. Different municipalities have had different reasons to apply to participate in this project or not to do so. The municipalities that have planned to cut – what is often called to make care more efficient – in the years to come will not be able to do so if they are involved in the experiment, for the simple reason that the attempt locks up the money for the care services, so that you cannot spend less money on this and instead spend the money on other things. I don't think anyone suspects the government to carry out this experiment because we want the municipalities to spend less on care for the elderly, on the contrary. Different municipalities will be in different situations. Stavanger Municipality is in the situation that, compared with comparable municipalities, they use a lot of resources on just these services. I understand that is the background that a cross-political person in Stavanger does not want to go into this experiment, but has many other exciting development projects in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1568	When the Right Party and the Advance Party in Stavanger say no, it is because one locally manages to look through the dense ideological fog that the Minister of Health in his answer shows that he is in. In Stavanger, one sees that government funding for the care of the elderly means more bureaucracy and a lower offer for the elderly. What the government is trying to make as a win-win is actually loss-loss for the municipalities. Stavanger is not alone in persuading the consequences of the reform. The municipality after the municipality has withdrawn from the project. Right-wing local politicians around the country are now trying to distance themselves from the scheme, but the Minister of Health, the Vice-President of the Right, is responsible for the project. Being responsible also means completing projects that nobody wants. Maybe it was a good purpose, but this turns out to work best in theory. How many expensive bureaucratic Advance Party projects that no one wants will Höie allow to get scoured and go? When will the dense ideological fog light up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1575	In my experience, there is only one effective tool for political fog, and that is knowledge. This pilot project will give us knowledge. Even those of us who are not initially responsible for taking over responsibility for the care services in the municipality have and will benefit from the knowledge gained through this pilot project. Instead of leaving the fog dot around the Workers' Party's thinking in this matter, the Workers' Party should also see the possibilities in this attempt. Not least, we see that the municipalities that are involved – already – tell us that they have benefited from a new way of working, and have experience from this that they say they will have enjoyed, regardless of whether the future will have the model of the Progress Party in this area, or the model that the other parties in the Stortinget stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1580	I notice that the Minister of Health is determined that the project must continue. The fog is still close, because the knowledge is clear. Kommune-Norge says no to this expensive, bureaucratic trial project. One should initially have 20 municipalities. It's not a very ambitious goal given how many municipalities we have in this country. After all the municipalities have been asked, the government is now left with seven municipalities that are part of the project. I will therefore return again to Stavanger. There the Right People say that it may be that this state model can be good for smaller municipalities with poor finances and poor services. Can the Minister of Health clarify what has now become the reality, was the government's intention from the outset, that this was a test project primarily for small municipalities with a poor offer, a bad economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1587	No, the offer to participate in this experiment was given to all municipalities, but it was from the very beginning a very clear premise that the offer should be voluntary for the municipalities. We wanted a representative sample of municipalities, different types of municipalities. We've got that, too. Looking at the scope of this pilot project, it goes far beyond what is usually seen as a public sector pilot when testing other ideas and new solutions. I have no doubt that this project will be able to provide us with useful knowledge of how to organise and finance the care services, regardless of whether the parties will in the future be in favour of a government funding of this. There is an impression that is already confirmed for the municipalities that have chosen to be involved in the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1601	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1609	My question to the Minister of Health is this: ‘The government has announced that it will change the investment grant to health care facilities introduced in 2008 so that it can only be used for the rehabilitation of health care facilities on a lucky day basis if it also provides for a net increase in places. Will this apply as an absolute requirement down to the individual municipality level, i.e. that municipalities that can demonstrate clearly that they have sufficient space for future needs will also be denied an application for a grant for hard-to-rehabilitate rehabilitation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1618	Many old and inappropriate institutional and nursing homes have been renewed with investment grants through renovation or replacement since 2008. Figures from the Husbank show that during the period from 2008 to 31 October 2016, grants have been committed to 13,494 lucky day care places. Of these, 5,790 are registered with measures relating to renovation and replacement. One of the first governments to do so after accession was to correct the investment grant scheme by taking half the bill now. We increased the grant rate and we increased the commitment framework in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. During all these years, this framework has been sufficient. Municipalities have not applied for grants to more sites than the framework has permitted. The Government has proposed to amend the investment grant scheme from 2021, so that it will include only areas that provide net growth. This is to get a system that takes account of the need to get more places in the coming years. At the end of the transitional period, it has been 22 years since the introduction of the single market reform. It must be said to be a reasonable time for municipalities to rehabilitate old institutions. In 2015, it was 97.5 pst. of the rooms of the institution exclusive. The Government has also introduced, with effect from 1 July 2014, that long-term residents of nursing homes placed in double rooms without wishing to do so are reduced in proportion by granting a free amount. This free amount is proposed to be adjusted to NOK 38 300 from 1 January 2017. The Government proposes a transitional arrangement for the years 2017 to 2020. During the transitional period, there shall also be a possibility of grants for the renovation and replacement of sites. Thus, municipalities receive State grants for renovation and replacement for a further four years, and during these four years they have to adapt to the new scheme. After this, the municipalities will only be able to renovate and replace existing sites within the municipality framework. In addition, municipalities will receive State grants through the investment grant scheme to build several sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1631	This is a little difficult to understand, but I see it this way – and understand it this way from the answer – that the Minister of Health believes that this is an absolute requirement for all municipalities. I get worried messages from the municipalities, which therefore don't see it as the need for renovation will stop in 2021, because what is new today is getting old in some time and needs ongoing renovation. There are also some municipalities that ask for the following: If you are applying for grants for both renovation and construction, you will receive grants, you will be refurbishment, and then you will change the assumptions regarding newly built sites, which give what the Minister of Health calls net sites – that means that the municipality will have to pay back what you have received in order to renovate, even if you can document a change, for example. future projections for the population have changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1636	As I said in my reply, the government proposes a transitional period of four years. During the four-year period, municipalities will also be able to obtain commitments for projects involving the renovation of existing sites. Of course, that's the situation at the time you get the grant that's in force. That means that the change that happens from 2021 does not have retroactive effect. After 2020, municipalities will receive grants for the establishment of several sites. That's because calculations made by both KS and SSB indicate that we need 30,000 places, several places, the next few years. This means that, over the 22 years since the Single Market reform was launched, the municipalities must have been able to renovate and renew and modernise the health homes they have had in that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1641	I now understand that the Minister of Health will continue to run this investment grant into a very narrow framework and not in line with the needs of the municipalities, which are very different. Then I have a number for the Minister of Health, because I hear he says it is wrong a lot of times: it was completed 7,700 seats, new and renovated, in the period from 2008 to 2015, and most of them got their promise on a red-green watch. Then we've settled it. So the question is, what does the net number of places mean if you get grants for both renovation and new places? If you renovate 50 places, what is the ratio of the refurbished to the new ones? Because I've understood it this way at the Minister of Health that you get to renovate if you also have net places. What will net locations mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1648	After 2021, only a few grants will be made for the additional places set up. Until 2021, one could also get money to renovate places. The reason for this conversion is that the municipalities will need, need, to rise at a completely different rate as regards the establishment of several sites towards the large increase in the number of older people over 80 from 2024. It takes from three to five years from a municipality to plan for the places until the places are finished. Therefore, the age of the country, those who are now approaching or who have just reached retirement age – as the representative says and points to himself – does not have time for the Labour Party's waiting and seeing attitude in the policy of the elderly. In fact, they need a government that demands that the municipalities now speed up the number of places, so that they do not stand in a queue too long to fit in the day care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1653	Question 20 is moved and answered after question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1661	This question, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1666	I have the pleasure of addressing the question from Stine Renate Håheim: ‘The government has set aside at least 180 million. kr to the experiment with state-funded care for the elderly. 17 municipalities have withdrawn because they would lose money on the scheme, including Gran and West Slider. What would that be? the crowns made up in the places of custody of the lucky day?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1675	In the 2017 budget, the government has proposed 39.3 million. kr in income supplements for participating test municipalities. 39.3 million. kr is the annual effect of an estimate of the income of the test municipalities corresponding to 4 pst. of the extracts of the municipalities. So the government is proposing about 120 million. kr in total for this purpose over three years. The statement of revenue shall be used in the experimental municipalities for the financing of care services. The application may include, inter alia: is used for good prevention services in municipalities. In addition, means are used for the investigation, implementation and follow-up evaluation of the test. In the 2017 draft budget, 8 million have been proposed. SEK – 8 million. kr – for this purpose. The other funds are income supplements for better care services for those in need of care. I'm glad we've tried state funding for the care services, and that gives us better knowledge. The municipalities say they have learned a lot about their own municipality and operation through that process. They have become more aware of how they organise services and how each patient should be cared for. It has a value in itself and will make the municipalities better rusted after the experiment is completed. Furthermore, we have tried out national criteria for who should be entitled to the care and care of the lucky day. It is important for the next step in the introduction of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1684	I note that the Council of State does not care about answering the question and will not calculate how many more annual work we could get in the nursing and care seat with the money that is now being spent. According to our calculations, it is up to a quarter of a billion dollars that is now spent on six municipalities, which carry out a test that the Council of State itself says he has no faith in will be carried out. Telemark research considers it impossible to measure any effect of the experiment, and KS considers it worthless. These are pretty strong words from heavy research institutions. My question to the Council of State is: Can he state one measure in his portfolio that is more wasted on spending so much money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1689	Both the original question and the follow-up question from the representative — and insofar as the Workers' Party's alternative budget — must be based on a manifest misunderstanding, namely that this money is used for something other than care. The whole question creates an illusion that this money could be used for care services rather than for this attempt. No, this money is used for care services in municipalities. That's 8 million. kr used for the implementation, the evaluation of the experiment. That's why it doesn't make sense to re-calculate the annuals of the 180 million. kr, which the representative addresses in the original question, because the money goes simply to the purpose: care services. Then we know that mainly this is going to go to annual work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1694	Interestingly, the Council of State believes that only 8 million are being used. kr on the project. Then I have to ask, how many red tapes are used in my own department to carry out the experiment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1699	In the Directorate for Health there are a number of posts used to prepare this project. The project will be of great value to us and will provide knowledge, which the municipalities also report back to us, about better ways to organise services, not least based on the needs of the users. I therefore believe that this is well spent money. It is an experiment carried out in a very good and structured way, far exceeding what has usually been done in this sector when implementing single pilots in some municipalities. There are some who believe that there are more pilots in healthcare than there are in SAS and Norwegian combined. This is a very well-implemented experimental system that gives great value to the municipalities involved, as well as to other municipalities as we gain experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1708	This question, from the representative of Annette Trettebergstien to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Audun Otterstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1713	I am pleased to ask the Minister of Health and Care the following questions, originally from the representative of Trettebergstuen: ‘The Government of Solberg, in its Government Platform, has said that ‘welfare services do not differ from other goods and services’ and that it is an objective to bring in private operators to obtain the desired competition. Both Nordic and international researchers have pointed out that the knowledge we have so far suggests that public and non-profit actors score better on all quality parameters in care for the elderly than private commercial drivers do. Why does the government not listen to what the research shows us?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1722	As I have answered a previous question, this government does not go in to privatise regulated municipal services. On the other hand, we are committed to ensuring good welfare services for citizens, including: by facilitating greater freedom of choice for users and thus increased influence over their own lives. More user choice will give users more influence over their own everyday lives, and it could stimulate increased awareness of the quality of the services for which the municipality is responsible. Municipalities are committed to providing the best possible services to their citizens, and they have a long tradition of developing welfare services in cooperation with both non-profit and private actors. It can create more innovation, greater freedom of choice and a more varied offer. I do not know many Norwegian or Nordic studies investigating differences in quality between public and private service providers, and the studies we know are in no way unambiguous. FAFO Report 2013:24 Consequences of competitive outsourcing say: ‘Private commercial operators often win tenders because of what is promised in the quality offer. However, in the light of research carried out both in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, there is no basis for concluding that there are differences in quality between private commercial and municipal services.’ In other words, there is a need for increased knowledge. The government wants to facilitate increased research on, in, with and about the municipal health and care services, and to focus research more on priority needs. The Government’s action plan for the follow-up to the Health Care Strategy2l, as well as the Norway Research Council’s three major l0-year programmes – TREATMENT, EMPLOYMENT and HEALTH – are important for strengthening research targeting municipal services. Efforts to strengthen research targeting municipal health and care services need to be seen in the context of other government measures to strengthen recruitment, competence and professional development. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, the government will contribute to good municipal health and care services. In the Key Action Communication on Primary Health, we presented a number of measures to ensure the competence and quality of the healthcare sector, such as: Competence level 2020, introduction of competence requirements in the Health and Care Services Act, development of quality indicators for the health and care services in municipalities and a municipal patient and user register. In addition to the measures described in the Storing Communication, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation has developed the guide User choice in municipal services, for use by municipalities that consider introducing user choices. The supervisor points to both positive impacts and challenges by establishing user choices, and provides concrete advice for assessments that municipalities have to make in advance of such work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1738	It's important, as the Council of State says, that we should be concerned with increasing quality. It was therefore surprising that, at the latest yesterday in this Chamber, proposals from the Workers' Party on increased competence in primary health care and proposals that would have led to more research in municipal health services were voted down. It simply shows that the Right and the Advance Party's representatives are listening to research that suits their ideological convictions. We saw that in the case of the right of reservation, and in the case of the Working Environment Act, with the biggest strike we have had in Norway in very many years. Does the Minister of Health and Health think that there is too much money for health and care in the municipalities, since he is ideologically so for commercial private actors, who want to make large profits to their owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1745	Point one: This government has launched a series of measures to increase awareness of the quality of municipal health and care services — a need that has been called for for decades, without the previous government lifting a finger to do something about it. A municipal quality register for these services is now established. We have reversed the removal of competence requirements by the red-green government in the Municipal Health and Welfare Act. One has to be a social democrat to believe that professional neutrality contributes to more competence in municipalities. No, the professionals contribute to the competence of municipal health and care services, so the law will again demand competence in these services. Whether it is whether the services are provided by local or private actors that contribute to better quality has not yet given us a clear answer. I have more faith that what is essential for quality is competence, management and organisation – but freedom of choice for users is a quality in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1750	The main challenge for health care in the next few years is the lack of skills and the lack of sufficient labour. When you know that 80 pst. of the cost of a nursing home goes to pay and retirement, it is obvious where to start cutting off private commercial operators. That's why the Workers' Party wants to have private ideals, we want to have locals, who are concerned with quality, who are concerned with putting older people first – and where you don't, as you see in our dear neighbouring countries, like Sweden, get a collection of four–five large commercial players who take dividends in the hundreds of millions of people every year, who would have gone to care for the elderly. Then it is time to ask the question again: Since the Minister of Health wants to have more commercial and not increase the number of the ideals, and it is believed that there is too much money in the health and care sector, does he think it is entirely right to humiliate the flow of care for the elderly and take great dividends instead of going to our elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1757	The representative’s question reveals why the Workers’ Party has been committed to finding solutions to improve the quality of care for the elderly. The Labour Party has gone wild in an ideological direction where one believes that the greatest challenge of quality in the Norwegian elderly care system is about the difference between public and private actors. No, the major challenge in Norwegian care for the elderly is the variation in quality between the different municipal actors. I absolutely do not believe that the answer to that is to make the municipal actors private. The answer to this is to make requirements for competence and quality throughout the care of the elderly, regardless of whether it is carried out by private or public authorities. And that's exactly what we have to work with. We're going to mark 1.2 billion. kr each year for competence enhancement measures in municipalities. We introduce competence requirements into the law, and we establish a health home security standard, precisely to enable managers locally to provide quality services.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1765	‘A new Sintef report shows that more than half of those seeking help in the final phase of life do not receive it, where it states that ‘persons with dementia [...] are a group who appear to receive very little specifically organised palliative offer’. In June 2015, the government asked for a selection. The selection was set down in May 2016 and will deliver the setting by the end of 2017. Why does the government spend so long on this important work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1772	From the outset, this government has had attention to the provision of services to people in the final phase of life. It is an objective that good palliative treatment and care are provided to all those who need it. We have therefore increased the allocation of measures that can improve the competence of providing relief. These include: funds allocated for the preparation of guidance material, the establishment of further training offers and the evaluation of the service provision. An evaluation has also been carried out under the auspices of the Health Directorate. We have also increased the investment grant to lucky places, which will help increase quality and increase the capacity of the offer. The grant is for all groups of users in need of lucky day services and those in need of relieving treatment. However, there is a need for a more systematic review and assessment of today’s palliative offers and, not least, advice on how this will develop in the future. It's now 17 years since the previous public investigation into palliation. For this reason, the government, even at the request of the Stortinget, has set up a public body to investigate the palliation field. This has also been a strong wish of many of the ideal, voluntary and professional actors in this field. The sample shall assess the content of the service regardless of diagnosis, age or other conditions throughout the period of disease and up to the end of life. The Committee shall also propose measures aimed at strengthening quality, competence, interaction, professional conversion and new forms of care. Patients and their needs are at the centre of the sample, and they are represented in the sample. Public sample sizes are often given broad, complex mandates for the work to be done. This is also the case for the sample to be subjected to the palliation field. It is therefore common practice for samples to spend one and a half to two years on their investigations. It ensures a thorough review of the field as a basis for proposing measures to improve the provision of services to people in the final phase of life. It deserves such work. This does not mean that other work related to strengthening and improving the palliative field needs to be put on hold as a result of the work of the sample. It is also the case that the government has implemented a number of measures that have been referred to, in addition to having now introduced that all people with serious illness are entitled to their permanent contact doctor in hospitals, which is important, among other things. in order to have the important conversation at an early stage for seriously ill patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1785	So with a big focus from the very first moment, the government took one year – one year – before they put this selection down. But I'll leave it. From the Hospice Forum in Norway, we hear that the relief departments are now becoming regular short-term departments, and that the municipalities are going down on the crew. Then an actually will not be able to meet people in the final phase, and their closest, with the dignity we all want, for one must have professionals present, and professionals with time. Why doesn't the Council of State take the necessary steps to secure enough places and professionals, so that the patients and their relatives get the worthy end of their lives that they actually enjoy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1794	In that part of the healthcare for which I have a direct responsibility, namely the specialist health service, there is a requirement to have my own team working on this field in all the health regions, and it is also established. In the municipalities, which the representative is aware of, one does not have the same ability to govern directly. It is the local authority in each municipality that itself assesses how they want to put together their offer. There is no doubt that the interaction reform, carried out by the previous government, has increased the pressure to turn places into short-term places in some municipalities. However, one of the tools we have to contribute to increased competence in this area is to provide earmarked money for empowerment measures for municipal health care employees, so that municipalities apply for this and thus contribute to increased competence. That's $12 billion. kr overall for the municipalities, for increased competence both professionally and in management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1801	Yeah, municipal economy is actually a key here as well, and I just want to remind you that the Labour Party has 2 billion. kr more to the municipalities in their alternate budget. I have experienced how difficult it is to be dragged between the desire to provide life-long treatment and that our loved ones should not suffer more. It's bad, it's hard, and one's totally dependent on professionals who's there, and that pain treatment is given in line with patients and relatives' will when they need it. I'm busy with this group and I want to take action, so it's completely incomprehensible to me that it could take a year from Stortinget to ask for a selection to be set down, and the government did. And now you're going to spend one and a half years working on it. What comes to this lack of action and this lack of focus from the government on such a vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1812	I totally disagree with that description. On the contrary, this is a topic that we've had a lot of attention all along. I would like to remind you that it was among other things: I, the undersigned, who made sure that work was started on developing the guidance for the field of palliation for children. That one has now also had its own education in that area, is something we have done in cooperation with the cooperation parties. An evaluation of the provision under the auspices of the Health Directorate was launched immediately. When we got that report, one of the assessments was whether it was sufficient, or whether there was a need for a separate public inquiry. I agree with the Stortinget that that report showed that there was a need for a public investigation. The fact that it took some time for the sample to be reduced is a case in point. to ensure both a good mandate and a good composition of such a selection in an area where we have to recognise that there is a great deal of disagreement and, in part, also conflicts about the direction to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1824	«The government has changed the investment grant to the Husbank for lucky places in the care sector. It has serious consequences for many municipalities, including Bærum. The rapporteur in Bærum, Lisbeth Hammer Krog, is critical because it goes beyond the necessary upgrading of already existing buildings. She and Torbjørn Espelien from Bærum Progress Party warn that the care of the elderly will be worse as a result of this. Why does the government not hear its own in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1831	Many old and inappropriate institutional and nursing homes have been renewed with investment grants through renovation or replacement since 2008. Figures from the Husbank show that during the period from 2008 to 31 October 2016, grants have been committed to 13,494 lucky day care places. A significant part concerns just refurbishment and replacement. One of the first governments to do so after accession was to correct and improve the investment grant scheme so that the State takes over half the bill. We increased the grant rate and we increased the commitment framework in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. During all these years, the framework has been sufficient. Municipalities have not applied for grants to more sites than the framework has permitted. The Government has proposed to amend the investment grant scheme from 2021 to include only areas that provide net growth, in order to have a scheme that takes account of the need to have more seats in the coming years. At the end of the transitional period, the scheme has been for 12 years, it must be said to be a reasonable time for municipalities to rehabilitate old institutional sites. At the end of the transitional period, it has been 22 years since the single market reform was introduced – at least a reasonable time for municipalities to rehabilitate old institutional sites must be said. In 20l5 was 97.5 pst. of the rooms of the institution exclusive. The government has also proposed that municipalities be penalised financially if they place long-term residents in nursing homes on double room against their will. The Government proposes a transitional arrangement for the years 2017 to 2020. This includes, inter alia: a result of recordings from, inter alia: the rapporteur in Bærum, so that the transitional period has been longer than that presented in the municipal proposal – so that the government listens, among others. to the rapporteur, Mr Bærum. The rapporteur in Bærum was also the day the State Budget was presented, out in the Municipal Report and was pleased that the government had listened to the Bærums rapporteur's input.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1844	The investment grant from the Husbank will be presented, a new policy will be put forward, and that is to ensure net growth. Lisbeth Hammer Krog is quite clear when she talks about the future. What they need is money both for new construction and for renovation, not least in order to ensure sustainable care services when the number of older people increases in a few years. Buildings shall be maintained continuously. The party leader of the main committee for assistance and care, Torbjørn Espelien, is equally clear. If the House Bank is no longer to provide grants for renovation, municipalities are forced to operate older inappropriate dwellings. At that time, care for the elderly is getting worse. This remains to be seen even if the period is somewhat delayed. Does the Council of State really believe that these two politicians, representing the government parties in one of Norway's largest municipalities, do not know what is best for their own elderly care?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1849	I also record what these politicians have said after the state budget was presented, that they just experience having been heard by getting an extended period. Therefore, Bærum Municipality has now ample time and opportunity to promote its rehabilitation projects during the four years of the transitional period. I believe that when the four years are over, the municipalities must have been able to reform and improve the quality and rehabilitation of their nursing homes. So this is a dream back to the mid-1980s, when the municipalities took responsibility for the hospitals in Norway. There would be a situation in which the state would need to give priority — in order to advance the development of several sites. The results of the Workers' Party's waiting-and-see attitude in the care of the elderly were very clearly documented as the government had to go off after the 2013 election. Everyone saw that the election vows, what the Workers' Party had tried to create an impression of, were not fulfilled in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1856	I thank you for your answer. I would like to remind the Council of State that attacks on the Workers' Party should actually be carried out in debates other than in the Question Time. We are in opposition, asking questions to the Council of State, and then he should answer his policy. What I still do not understand is why Höie is not more responsive to the municipalities. Why does he feel that, in the future, renovation should not be carried out at all, and will this scheme be phased out, when so many are critical? It's not just these two representatives from Municipality-Norway who have been critical, it's many others as well. It is tempting to think that being able to boast of new places in the care of the elderly is much better in TV debates when elections are to be won. Is that the main reason, or what really is the reason why you don't want to contribute to the renovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1863	The reason is quite simple: my main exposure is about the elderly. The representative may be more concerned with the system and the municipalities, but I am most concerned about the elderly. I have asked the municipalities to give me an answer as to how many more places they think they themselves need by 2030. At the same time, I've asked the SSB to calculate the same thing, and they're going to roughly the same estimate: between 22,000 and 30,000 places. I cannot then be responsible for a system that does not mean that the municipalities increase the pace of the development of several places. Municipalities are responsible for painting themselves and not least for maintaining their own buildings through the framework grant they receive from the State. The state must therefore transform the scheme so that we use it to a greater extent for what the elderly will need, namely several places.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1871	‘The country’s only public lung hospital, Granheim in Gausdal, has been proposed by the Inland Hospital to Gjøvik Hospital. The specialists, other employees, the municipality and patients have not been involved in the process of transferring this specialist lung disease service. Does the Council of State think it is right to lay down Norway’s only public specialised pulmonary hospital without either consultation or recording with specialists, other employees, the municipality or patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1878	There is no doubt that the Hospital Inland has a demanding distribution of tasks between their hospitals, both professionally and resourcely. I am aware that the Inland Hospital, in line with the decision of the Board of Directors of April 2016, is conducting a review of various professional areas in order to promote quality and assess how the services are as well organised as possible, and to ensure that resources are used as far as possible directly for patient treatment – the Board of Directors refers to the short-term migration measures. The review shall ensure that the operation of the undertaking is sustainable, and these are measures aimed at implementing in the period 2017-2020: The rehabilitation offer at the Hospital Inland is one of the offers it will be viewed. One option assessed is whether it would be appropriate to organise lung rehabilitation during lung medicine in a somatic hospital. However, the Inland Hospital informs us that this is an organisational and management act. The Inland Hospital also informs that a review is being carried out to ensure consistency between capacity and needs and that the treatment of patients in need of lung rehabilitation is in line with the professional leadership. Rehabilitation services at the Hospital Inland consist of treatment services operated by the Hospital Inland, as well as the purchase of treatment services from private rehabilitation institutions. Under its own direction, the hospital operates the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, located in Gjøvik and in Ottestad. In addition, the Hospital Inland Granheim operates a lung hospital. The new health business development plan guide contains recommendations on the process around different stakeholders and how this should be done. I assume that the leadership I have given is followed, and that any changes are carried out in a professionally sound manner, with good involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1889	Thanks for the answer. It is true that specialised lung rehabilitation requires specialised and multidisciplinary staff and facilities, including: training room, teaching and guidance room, pool and examination facilities with lung laboratory and x-ray. And this is in Granheim Hospital. Transferring this specialist service to a somatic bed post will in effect result in the closure of the specialised lung rehabilitation facility. According to the National Health and Hospital Plan, both the municipality and the specialist service are to be responsible for rehabilitation, and it was also decided that the provision of specialist health services should not be reduced. Does the Council of State believe that the plans of the Hospital Inland then follow the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1896	No decision has been made in the Inland Hospital about this, but that the Inland Hospital has a good review of the way they organise their services – how they offer them to patients and what kind of offers they have – that is part of the hospital’s tasks. The hospital must carry out such processes in transparency, in dialogue with its own professionals, but also with the relevant municipalities and with patient and user organisations. It requires that the processes are open, that the questions be raised. Of course, it creates uncertainty in some contexts, but the alternative to the kind of open processes would be that it happened in enclosed spaces. I don't think the representative or I do. It is then important that we, who have overall political responsibility, allow that kind of process to go, precisely in order to clarify the various questions, also the questions the representative here raises, without us intervening in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1901	I initially asked about this because there has been no consultation or recording round, and I share the government's wish that there should be good and open processes, and engaging processes in which you actually talk to the professionals and also patients. It is stated in the National Health and Hospital Plan that good rehabilitation is often essential to master your own life, and it is to be given to everyone who needs it, regardless of age and diagnosis. It also states that a good rehabilitation offer rarely gets a good result if it is not in a well-planned patient course. The government has presented in the budget an announced phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The escalation plan has been strongly criticised following, inter alia, the submission of: due to a lack of funding. I wonder if the Council of State in the situation we are in now, would it be natural to wait with a closure or transfer until that plan is realised and the parties involved are well heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1906	It is right that the Hospital Inland should carry out a good and open process, and I require that too. This is an early stage of the process, and we will follow up this question. It is true, of course, that the Hospital Inland is responsible for offering to its patient group and organising it in a good way. In the rehabilitation plan, we state that the specialist health service should continue to be responsible for the specialised rehabilitation. So the recovery plan does not affect specialised rehabilitation, because it will continue to be the responsibility of health regions. There will therefore be no shift of responsibility for the specialised rehabilitation or part of the specialised rehabilitation from the specialist health service to the municipalities. In the escalation plan, we therefore spend the money on building up the offer in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1914	‘According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare there will be a need for a total of 9 200 day activities places for residents with dementia by 2020. The Ministry of Health and Health estimates that by the end of 2016 6 120 places will be missing to meet the estimated need. How can the Council of State be satisfied with this in the last budget of this government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1921	Firstly, I do not expect this to be the government's last budget, but a budget in the range of many future budgets. Estimates from 2010–2011 show that about 9 200 day-time activities are needed for residents with dementia. Since the scheme was established in 2012, during the previous government, there has been an under-exploitation of grant funds annually. In total, around 2 900 seats are currently operated under the grant scheme. In 2016, we have allocated funds to 1,200 more day-to-day activities, but so far this year the municipalities have only applied for 570 more places. Daily activities are important both for many residents with dementia and for their relatives. For individuals, the offer can provide meaning, mastery and good experiences, and for many relatives, the offer acts as a long-term relief, as well as helping to prevent or postpone the institution’s establishment. The Government will impose an obligation on municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. It is therefore important that municipalities now use the grant scheme and the period up to 2020 to think innovatively and to create a varied and wide range of services – and that they take with them those who live with dementia and its relatives, in designing the offer. The government has also promoted Demen Plan 2020, the aim of which is to take care of and integrate people with dementia into the community and to develop better services for both them and their relatives. Under the plan, the government bets, inter alia: on the development and competence of services, adapted services and housing, user and family schools, discussion groups and research. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, the population was assigned to follow-up municipalities that did not apply for grants or that do not have day-to-day activities. Furthermore, the Health Directorate carries out extensive information work to disseminate knowledge about the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1936	I hear that the Council of States might not be as satisfied with him either, so we can hope that's the last budget he's going to present. Several denments require competence, and municipalities have slowed down in terms of annual care and care. Over 22,000 new municipal works came to our guard, i.e. 2,800 per year. Based on the answers given by the Ministry of Health and Health itself, that figure is now much lower, approx. 1,370 per year. The number of municipal health workers who have taken part in further training is also disappointingly low. Can the Minister of Health explain why it has become this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1943	This development began on the watch of the red-green government, so the development of the number of annual shifts in the municipal care service, the reduction in growth – I stress the decrease in growth – started already before the government shift. What's the reason behind that kind of vibration, it's not always as easy to answer. We're now in a period of lower growth in the number of people over 80 years, and then we're going into a new period of increase. It could be one of the reasons. With regard to the finances of municipalities, this cannot be the reason, because the finances of municipalities have been significantly strengthened during this government. I am also, as the representative, concerned about the local authorities' willingness to bet on daily services to this patient group, despite the fact that they are now notified that from 2020 they will have an obligation to have such an offer. And there are good grant schemes available, which they are unfortunately not using.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1952	We're probably in disagreement about local economy and growth. Research shows that demente has great benefits and joy of cognitive and physical training, both as a positive experience and in terms of slowing disease development. Can the Minister of Health explain to me what he has done so far to this vulnerable group in order to prevent?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1959	In the area of prevention in general, the government has provided a public health report to which the Storting has joined. It contains significant measures related to public health work. And in this budget, there's also a public health programme in the municipalities, which we've worked with KS on, where we're going to spend about 50 million. That's exactly what I'm saying. For this special group, this government has done something that is quite unique: to establish and develop the Demen Plan 2020. It has not been developed in the offices, but it has been developed in cooperation with people with dementia and their relatives, in a partnership with the National Association for Public Health and the Centre for Ageing Medicine. It has made us meet people with dementia and their relatives around the country, and they have been involved in designing the plan. There are then daytime activities, the possibility of being active during the day, one of the most important factors they point to, as well as follow-up and training once diagnosed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1969	I hope the Council of State's blood sugar will answer one more question after he's been here for almost two hours: "regulating your blood sugar is essential to living well with diabetes. Nevertheless, it is stressful — especially for children and young people — to go up to blood 15 times a day. The new Freestyle Libre glucose measuring system has made everyday life much easier, as it measures by means of a scanner and sensor on the arm. Will the Council provide a reimbursement scheme for Freestyle Libre ensuring that diabetics have access to a new and better means of dealing with their serious and chronic disease?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1976	FreeStyle Libre is a new product, and it is uncertain which patients the product is most relevant to as well as how much benefit patients will have from the product. Therefore, in June 2016, the Order Forum – in the system for new methods – ordered a rapid method assessment of the FreeStyle Libre and the corresponding system for self-measurement of glucose in tissue fluid in diabetes. It is the Knowledge Centre of the Institute for Public Health that is to carry out the methodological assessment. This methodological assessment will also assess, in addition to assessing the usefulness, resource use and severity of the measure, which patients may benefit most from the product. The knowledge centre shall use a maximum of 180 days for this assessment from receipt of documentation from the supplier. In the light of the methodological assessment, it can be clarified whether FreeStyle Libre is to be financed by the public and whether, in the event of such expenditure, it is to be covered by the BIP or by health establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1985	I thank you for the answer – I guess that's about the same thing I got in a written question that the Council of State answered on 13 October. I've calculated a little bit. From June until now, I estimate that 150 days have passed, so we are soon on the 180 days that the Knowledge Centre will use to make the assessment and obtain documentation. One question is whether this is going to be such a fast delivery that you get the answer within the 180 days that are now soon gone. The second question is whether the whole mission is not superfluous, because many other countries in Europe have made this assessment and found it acceptable. The Knowledge Centre has agreed with 77 other institutions in Europe not to do double work. Then there's two questions: is the answer coming within 180 days? And is it really necessary for Norway to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e1994	The answer to the first question is: Yes, 180 days apply from the time the Knowledge Centre receives documentation from the supplier. I am not familiar with when the supplier responded to the contact of the Knowledge Centre to obtain sufficient documentation, so I cannot respond to how many days have run since then. It is important in this system that suppliers contribute to the knowledge base for the assessment of the methodology. Then it is absolutely right that the Knowledge Centre has extensive cooperation with other actors and, of course, uses their work in their work. However, it is important that the Knowledge Centre make the assessments and deliver them to a decision-making forum that then makes such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2001	Thank you for that answer. A question in this regard is whether the Knowledge Centre and the Order Forum are the right address here, all the time most of those who are going to use it, relate to HELFO and the Primary Health Service, and whether it is not HELFO, who has ensured quality blood sugar measuring equipment for ten years, that could be responsible for that method assessment. They have a trades council where the users are also involved. Then we get a lot of information about this type of blood sugar measurement, especially from parents who see that their children and young people benefit from this tool. It is smaller, but not least it uses smaller insulin – this is a win-win. Although it may be expensive to pay NOK 20 000 and that the State will contribute, a lot of money is already spent on that equipment. The question is whether HELFO can't get the assignment, if the Knowledge Centre may not have even asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2012	Since there is uncertainty as to which patients the product is most relevant to, and therefore uncertainty as to whether the decision to use this product is part of the specialist health service or primary health service, it is the Order Forum that receives precisely that type of assessment. The issues raised by the representative here are precisely the kind of questions that will be considered when deciding whether to offer this product on public account is correct or not. Of course, there are issues that will be considered. Here's a work going on, and I hope we can get an answer quickly, so that you can find out if this is a proper offer for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2020	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The working party believes it is very important that care for the elderly does not become a balancing item in the municipal priorities. We are concerned that the tasks that local authorities are now going to do within their tight budgets will hit the weakest of the elderly. We believe that the growth in the number of annual shifts in care services is lower under this government than under the previous one, while the needs have increased. How can the Council of State defend the priority of 25 billion? tax cuts rather than better care for the elderly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2029	The government does not deprioritise the care of the elderly; on the contrary, we give municipalities better framework conditions than the previous government power in its period. In order to enable municipalities to further develop their services, they need an economic space for action. When we compare the draft budgets from 2011 to today, we see that overall the action space for municipalities is clearly larger in the period 2014 to 2017 than in the period 2011 to 2013. Even when we compare the actual development of free income, the speech of the figures is clear. The average annual real growth rate for municipalities in the period 2013–2016 was 2.2 pst, while for the period 2009–2013 it was 1.4 pst. If we look at the real growth per capita, it was on average 1.1 pst. in the years 2013-2016, against 0,1 pst. for the period 2009-2013. The municipal operating performance in 2015 was the best since 2006, and there is reason to believe that the operating performance will be at least as good in 2016 as last year. With regard to developments in annual growth, the figures from the Statistical Centre show that in the years preceding 2013 there was a significant decrease in annual growth — from an annual growth of 2745 in 2010 to an annual weight of 1514 in 2013. In comparison, the growth in 2014 and 2015 was 1630 and 1 109 year-olds respectively. Thus, the trend in annual growth was also evident during the previous government. It is wrong when the Workers' Party is trying to make it appear that the government has used the entire space for action to lower taxes. 15 pst. the action space was used to lower taxes, and less than half of these were cut in the taxes on wealth. The other 85 pst. is used to invest in transport, knowledge, health — precisely a high priority for local authorities’ economic space, because it is within the framework of both schools and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2044	If someone in this post-Trump era is looking for a place to look for a distance between the world of reality and the world of politics, the answer from the Minister of Health and Welfare can serve as a very good example, because in the reality of government there is no unemployment, there are no increasing differences, and there is no shortage of care for the elderly. But out in reality, the Right's own Kåre Reiten in Stavanger, who has been running for 21 years, tells us that now we can't stand any more cuts and reductions in the nursing homes. The operating budgets of the nursing homes are so strenuous that no further reductions can be tolerated, he says. We can't cut any more in quality, he says, the hospitals have had to save quite a lot in recent years, which has led to fewer employees, fewer night shifts. The question is: does the Council of State Bent Höie believe that this is helped by more money to the municipalities or even more billions in tax cuts to the absolute richest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2051	This government has recognised to the greatest extent the challenges posed by increasing unemployment in the South of the West, and this is also the reason for the significant action packages put in place for it. With regard to the challenges of care for the elderly, there is something that this government recognises much more than the Workers' Party did in government, and not least what the Workers' Party is doing now, in opposition. Firstly, as my first answer shows, we have strengthened the economy of the municipalities. Secondly, one has also recognised that the quality of care for the elderly is not just about money; it is also about the way care for the elderly is managed. That is why we have reinstated the competence requirements of the municipal health and care services that the previous government has removed. We have introduced a legal right to the care and care of luck, which the Workers' Party voted against. And we are now tightening up demands towards municipalities to establish several places in the care of the elderly, which the Workers' Party is opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2058	I record that the answer to Bent Höie's party traps in Stavanger is that there is no more money needed, that is better management of the care for the elderly – in a city that has been run for 21 years. Let's move to the Bærum, which is not similarly affected by the unemployment crisis under this government, where, according to the Evening Post, the hospital is described as: ‘the attack of rats’, ‘small rooms with ‘captoalette’ and ‘the living rooms are so small that it is difficult to use available facilities on them’. In this situation, the government chooses to weaken the investment grants. The Council of State is not even able to follow its own promise for the hospital budget. # Mr. kr this year was the more sunny one before the election – 12 bn. kr in the course of four years. You're miles away. So anyway, you have 25 billion. kr in the year to the richest to create more jobs, which do not appear – the greatest time off. Why is it more important to spend money on this than to put some of those billions, at least 10 pst. of the tax cuts, into the care of the elderly? Only it would be a big boost. Why don't you put this first?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2065	There is growth in the welfare that is put first by this government. I would like to remind you that the representative Giske herself has voted for half of these tax cuts. Bærum municipality has been listened to. They are given longer time and receive support schemes for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. In the case of Stavanger Municipality, one of the municipalities has good finances as a result of maintaining a significant proportion of the tax revenue locally. They have now experienced a sharp decline as a result of the fall in the oil price, but remain above other municipalities in terms of income base. But they can be happy that it's not the Workers' Party that runs the municipal income system together with the Center Party, then they would have been in a situation where they kept less of the values created locally. Stavanger is one of the municipalities that really serves that there is a Right-led government in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2075	‘Investigations show that approx. 60 pst. elderly people are undernourished. Why has the government rejected the Workers' Party's proposal for a national strategy on nutrition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2082	In spring 2017, the government is presenting an action plan for better diet. Normally, when government strategies are put forward, Storting requires action plans. I guess that's the other way around here. A number of measures have already been taken. We have submitted Competence Plan 2020. It is a separate plan for the recruitment, competence and professional development of municipal care services. We have strengthened the provision of basic, continuing and continuing training to staff in the services and increased support for management training. The contribution to competence through nutrition interventions in the care services was implemented in the period 2011 to 2015. The results are collected in an idea bank, and tools are spreading to other municipalities. We have strengthened the municipal competence and innovation grant in 2016 to enable municipalities to carry out competence, innovation and development work in the field of nutrition. The last country-wide survey on food and meals in hospitals in 2015 shows that improvements are being made compared to 2007. So there are results in the municipalities. But there's still only half that has written nutrition and weighing procedures. We are now working on developing a safety standard for quality in nursing homes, where food and meals will be among the themes. The first quality indicators for nutrition in the care service are published until next year. The circular on preventive home visits in municipalities came in 2016, and a guide on this issue of nutrition is now coming. Nutritional health care supervisor, the Dietary Manual, has recommendations on good diets for the elderly. National professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition shall be reviewed. There shall be a clear requirement for those attending the healthcare service to be able to identify the nutritional status and to receive a customised offer. From 2016 on, nutrition has become an input into the National Patient Safety Programme ‘In Safe Hands’. Furthermore, there are a number of measures that municipalities can implement in a simple way that does not cost anything at all — for example: both the Prime Minister and I travel around the country and the beach and tell the municipalities that they should do so, namely move the dinner serving in a nursing home from early morning/afternoon to the outside of the day, so that the elderly in a nursing home get dinner at the time that is usual. This leads to better nutrition, better sleep in the networks, less drug use, more activity in the day, and less malnutrition. All of these are actions that are now being implemented. In addition, there will be an action plan in spring 2017. I'm more concerned with action in this field than we're now spending more time and resources on creating overall strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2095	And you can get the idea that this is all very well. But what is real is that when there was consultation in the Committee on this proposal for a representative to which I refer, everyone who participated expressed the need for much stronger efforts in the field of older people and nutrition than we see today. It is both because we want action and also because we want a faster progress that has been called for such a strategy a relatively long time ago. Now we're once again told that something will happen in the future, and that the Council of State is really more than happy with what it is today, but the fact is that as many as 60 pst. users of care for the elderly may suffer from misnutrition or be at risk of being affected by it. Is a meal competition between hospitals the most important measure taken by the government in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2104	The answer to the last question is no, and I think the representative also got involved in my original answer, where I listed all the work being done in this area – and more is coming. Had it been the case that all was ‘well’ in the field of nutrition in the care of the elderly, we would not, of course, have given priority to starting all the work that has been done in this area. It is precisely because we recognise the scale of this problem that so many concrete measures have also been taken. Work on the National Action Plan in this area had a large start-up meeting in Stavanger in March 2016, i.e. before the Stortinget discussed the Workers' Party's proposal for a strategy. The action plan has generated a lot of commitment – a lot of input has been made – and the government will present it in the spring of 2017. I am more concerned that we have action plans in this area, that we are implementing actions, than that we are now taking time again to create strategies that are general, without concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2113	I thank you for your answer. Regardless of action plan or strategy, it is a key factor in success in this area, and it is whether you have enough staff to take that job out to each institution against each user. The Nursing Association writes, among other things: that there are busy working days in nursing homes and in domestic services around the country, and helping someone to eat is time-consuming — feeding a person with swallowing problems takes a long time. It's a good example of things that can be difficult to get time for in a busy everyday life. I also refer to the previous questions from the representative Trond Giske, who clearly gets the difference between government policy, which prioritises tax cuts, and our policy, which is to give municipalities the opportunity to hire more people in this important service. Does the Council of State think that employees today have enough time to care for the needs of the elderly at meals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2124	It varies considerably from municipality to municipality and from institution to institution. We also see that from the nurses' union survey among their members, where they describe their work situation. We see that in some municipalities and in some institutions good recruitment succeeds, people with a high level of skills are occupied in the various positions, reducing sick leave, so that those who are at work have better time, while other institutions fail. To a very large extent, it is about management issues, the willingness to invest in skills, and the municipal systems to work more at a leadership level are precisely these kinds of services. That is exactly what we are prioritizing, as well as what I pointed out in my previous answer, that we are also giving priority to a good local economy. These two things in combination, together with the action plan, I think I will help make a difference in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2129	We're now going back to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2137	I allow myself to ask a question to Minister of Health Bent Höie: ‘We have seen a pressure on the centralisation of child services in several places in the country. Hedmark is a very long-distance state. Nevertheless, there is a proposal to remove the newly born intensive and childhood wards of Elverum Hospital, so that Hedmark will be without these important functions. Is it a wild national policy on the part of the Council of State that hospital services specifically related to children and young people are centralised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2146	I refer to my answer to question 13, from the representative Storberget, and repeat the same answer here: There is no doubt that the Hospital Inland has a demanding distribution of tasks between their hospitals, both professionally and resourcely. I am aware that, in accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors of April 2016, the Hospital Inland is now reviewing various professional areas in order to promote quality and assess the appropriate organisation of services, and to ensure that resources are used as far as possible for direct patient treatment, which is referred to in the governance context as the short-term migration measures. The review shall ensure that the operation of the undertaking is sustainable. These are actions aimed at implementing between 2017 and 2020. One of the areas under consideration is the provision of children and young people. The Inland Hospital informs us that, no matter what the review ends with, there will be extensive outpatient services, daily services and daily services for children and young people in Hedmark and Uppland. An open, involved and predictable process has been set up, involving the relevant municipalities, user organisations and trustees. The hospital also discloses that only one internal process has been carried out in the enterprise. New guidance for health business development plans contains recommendations on the process around different interests and how to involve them. I assume that the leaders I have given are followed, and that any changes are carried out in a professionally sound manner, after any good involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2159	As a government council, you are professionally and politically responsible for which health services and what hospital services we are going to have around Norway. It is a publicly funded offer, which is ultimately the responsibility of political Norway. Hedmark is a very long-distance state. From the northernmost parts of Hedmark to Elverum Hospital, it's over 20 miles. If you're going to add 9 miles, it's almost 30 miles in travel distance for those who're going the longest, if they're going to the Children's and Youth's Department, or to the neonatal intensive care unit, if necessary. Does the Council of State Höie feel that it is right to have such distances and that such an offer should not be made in Hedmark, knowing what district challenges Hedmark states are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2168	It is absolutely right that I am politically responsible for health services in Norway, but I am not professionally responsible. It is extremely important to stress that the professional responsibility for the professional soundness of an offer lies with the management of each business. If you create uncertainty about it, it's very dangerous for patient safety and quality. I make very clear demands as to what kind of process the hospital is performing when they assess changes to the offer. One very clear requirement is that discussions about the kind of changes should be conducted in transparency, with investigations and involvement, involving professionals, users and municipalities that are affected. The alternative is that the process takes place in the enclosed space. I don't think anyone wants that, but then one must also accept that the kind of discussion is taking place in the open room, before any decisions are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2175	Of course, the Council of State is responsible for keeping the hospital service we have in Norway a sufficiently professional standard. One of the things that has been important in Norway is that we should be close to the offers. Hedmark is one of the countries of the country with the largest area, it's very large distances. Today, we have a heavy competence environment at Elverum Hospital, which has high local trust. Does the Council of State Höie see that it may be a problem that there can now be a travel distance of several dozen miles for those who are going to a children’s and youth department, if the Children’s and Youth Department and the Elverum’s neonatal intensive care unit are laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2182	Yes, it is clear that distance has an impact on the quality of healthcare in Norway and on the availability of healthcare for patients and users. The time it takes if it's urgent is of importance to quality. This is one of the reasons why the national health and hospital plan is so clear that a person should have safe health services throughout Norway, irrespective of where a boron is located, and that distance should be a factor to be considered. However, the quality of Norwegian health services is not only measured by the emptiness, but also measured by other factors. If an assessor is considering making changes to offers, all the conditions relating to them must be clarified, they must be taken out into the public space. It will lead to discussion, sometimes also to uncertainty and concern, but the alternative is that the kind of processes are going on in the closed room, and I don't think the representative or I would appreciate that. It is the Hospital Inland and Health South-East that finally have to assess whether the changes made here are correct within the framework laid down or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2191	The President would like to thank the Council of State Höie for the 18 answers he has given in this ordinary Questionnaire. We proceed to Question 30 – and to the next questioner, who is the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2201	‘The Minister of Knowledge is now considering a proposal from the Loan Fund to close offices in Tromsø and Ørsta, as well as a gradual decline in Bergen. The justification is more effective through digitisation. However, digitisation makes it possible to carry out the tasks of anywhere in the country, which is also being done today. As a result, this is primarily a centralisation measure. Afterwards, the Council of State has asked for new solutions where Ørsta is included. What is the reason that Tromsø is kept outside?"
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2208	The Loan Fund is an example of a public enterprise that has succeeded in using new technologies to provide customers with user-friendly and efficient, high-quality services. It is a desirable development in line with the government's objective of an efficient public sector. One consequence of digitisation and increased automation of processing is the need for fewer employees working on manual handling of issues in the Loan Fund. It is also a desired development that will continue in the future, regardless of how many offices the Loan Fund has. At the end of August I received a proposal from the Board of Loan Banks to wind up the district offices in Ørsta, Bergen and Tromsø. The main reason is that the Board of Directors of the Loan Bank believes that a collection of manual processing in fewer places than at present will best ensure good professional environments that can ensure the quality and effectiveness of the procedure needed in the future. I therefore disagree with Knag Fylkesnes’ description of the proposal as a centralisation measure, because fewer offices are not an objective in themselves, but an instrument to ensure that the quality and efficiency of the services provided by the Loan Fund is best achieved in the future. The loan fund has carried out a thorough investigation and concluded that these considerations are best taken into account if the operations of the Loan Fund are grouped in three locations. I would also like to remind you that the largest reduction in staff working with manual processing is proposed at the Oslo office, with a reduction of 30-35 years. If implemented, the proposals of the Loan Fund have implications for jobs in the regions concerned and for individual employees at the offices of Ørsta, Bergen, Tromsø and Oslo. The Government aims to ensure the distribution of state jobs that contribute to the development of good labour markets across the country. The work on locating new and existing jobs outside Oslo shall be reinforced. The Government, in cooperation with the Left, shall submit a plan for the location of State workplaces. My decision in this case must be based on a balance between the efficient operation of the Loan Fund on the one hand and the impact on the regions concerned on the other. Ørsta is – compared to Bergen, Tromsø and Oslo – a limited labour market in a region with relatively few government jobs. I would therefore like to have a better decision-making basis by having a more detailed assessment of the impact on the Loan Fund's achievement of either continuing the Ørsta office or resolving it differently from what has been proposed. But at the same time, I would like to stress that although we are now asking the Loan Fund for more information about certain local offices, this does not mean that we have drawn any conclusions about the Loan Fund's proposal to wind up the offices, either in Ørsta, Bergen or in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2225	There are several aspects of the process that have led to the proposal currently under consideration by the Council of State that has shuddered. Firstly, the selection that was responsible for making proposals for efficiency improvement explicitly stated in its mandate that Trondheim and Oslo should be kept out, that is, that they should be protected from closure. This means, of course, that it is the other offices that have to take the noise in order to assess efficiency. So it hasn't been a real and open process about what will create the best possible efficiency of the Loan Box's activities. What makes this special is that when you have negotiated another type of solution in Bergen afterwards, and then you try to get another type of solution for Ørsta, and the only one left, and that will be the victim of this closure, is Tromsø. My question to the Council of State is, Is he satisfied with the process that has been set before him for the basis on which he is now going to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2234	When the representative Knag Fylkesnes takes up this matter, it is of course not just in place, but quite right. But when he describes the process as not fair and open, it must be seen as a gross mistrust statement to the board of directors in the Loan Fund. I don't share that description. I believe that this has been a good process, and I have full confidence that the board of directors in the Loan Fund has managed this in a good and proper way. So this is a reason why Oslo and Trondheim have been kept out of closure – but not downstaffing. Oslo is where most of the proposal for the Loan Fund is to be reduced. The reason is that very much of the operation of the Loan Fund in the future is about the development of yet another new technological digitisation solution. There are a lot of things you can spread around the world, but precisely those developing environments need to be close to large, heavy ICT environments, and the big, heavy ICT environments have, among other things. around the offices of the Loan Fund in Oslo and Trondheim. Finally, I would like to stress that no conclusions have been drawn in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2243	I think it is good that no conclusions have been reached, and that the Council of State also underlines it. For me, there would be a much cleaner process if you had looked at it completely openly, looking at what possibilities are in the new technology. There is no indication that he needs to lead to it or that – it doesn't need to be centralization, there may be a lot of solutions out here and go here. But then one gave it the mandate of a group that is going to work on this, with such a commitment, so I think that one has already taken part in how the conclusions of the report should be. What I mean is a weakness in it. The composition of this group has also been special: people from the offices now proposed, representatives from there, have not been part of the group, while those in this «Vernesona» – to call it it – Oslo and Trondheim, were the ones who made up this group. So finally, actually more to the process: when does the Council of State think that one will land this case, and has one also evaluated the arguments that have come in the open letter from the Loan Fund in Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2252	I consider all the arguments, and have also had meetings and got more input about this – of course, it should just be missing. I haven't set an end date. Of course, the loan box is interested in making this decision as soon as possible. I would like to believe that employees also want both a thorough process and that they should not withdraw the process for so long that it creates more uncertainty than necessary. So there's one thing I think is absolutely certain: one of the reasons we're going to have digitisation and modernisation of the public sector is to use resources better, so it's an impractical alternative to maintain today's structure just for the sake of more district offices. So we need to take advantage of modernisation and efficiency – when we need less manual handling, we need to take the consequences. This means that the Loan Fund will have fewer regional offices than today. But there are many discussions that remain, still, about which offices to dismantle, and how.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2264	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Culture the following question: 'Wonderful,' said Mr. Wohnn-Arnesen when the government proposed to cut the cultural walker's stick. The exposure was large among the people, and the scheme was saved by the Stortinget. On question 473 from 10 October 2016, which calls for the status of the scheme, the Minister of Culture answers that, as there is no reporting obligation on the funds, the Council of State cannot say anything about the use of the funds. Does the State Council consider that the Storting does not have a right to know the status of the scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2271	The cultural spa was previously a uniform subsidy scheme for the municipal sector, earmarked culture for the elderly, financed jointly by budgetary resources from the Ministry of Health and Welfare and funds from the Ministry of Culture. The distribution of funds is determined by the Royal Resolution and the funds were mainly to be used for high-quality professional art and cultural dissemination. It was the municipalities that applied for grants to the scheme. The scheme was then regionalised from 2014 onwards by providing a total of 30.8 million. kr was granted as a subsidy to all counties for further distribution to the municipalities. Subsequently, the Ministry of Culture's share of the scheme, as the representative Haukeland Liadal probably knows, was completely terminated in 2015. At the same time, the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s contribution to the scheme was transferred to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation’s budget for 2015 and committed as earmarked grants to the county councils and then continued as free revenues in 2016. Free income is, as Stortinget knows well, funds which the municipalities and county councils freely dispose of without any other consequence from the state than the applicable laws and regulations. Thus, neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Ministry of Health and Welfare have the authority to ask the municipalities to report to them in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2278	I thank you for the answer, if anything was unclear. A worthy old age deals with, among other things, on access to cultural experiences and cultural and art experiences for all older people in the country are the responsibility of the Minister of Culture. The exposure, which was triggered – and which is still present in the Stortinget – by the government’s unwillingness to the scheme, may have surprised the Right and the Advance Party, but the support parties understood it, and a compromise was negotiated. I am somewhat uncertain from the previous response of the Council of State whether she believes that the cultural spaserstock was laid down in 2015, or whether she can inform the Storting whether we still have an offer for the elderly named the Cultural Spaserstock.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2283	It will be a little difficult to answer this question when the representative Haukeland Liadal claims it is unclear. Then I wonder what's unclear. Is it such that the Workers' Party has now changed its practice that the Workers' Party on the Stortinget wants municipalities to report on what they use the free resources for? In that case, there's something completely new, and I don't know. Can the representative explain whether the Workers' Party now believes anything other than that we should have confidence that our local politicians will do the best for their older people, so that our older people can experience the cultural walking stick – that we trust them to make good disposals? And then it's nice to make it clear if you've changed that practice, because in that case it's something completely new that I've never heard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2288	At least there is no doubt that the question mark and its function are in order, among other things. We as a party can ask the Council of State questions, and that's the way it's going to go. I thank you for the answer – which once again was quite disgusting. There's a lot of commitment in this room to how the cultural walking stick works out in the country. The working party provides for an increase in the scheme. We add up to a scheme that works directly from the state budget and not in the municipal framework. Once again, I want to challenge the Minister of Culture: the government lost the fight to put down the scheme, but has today also said away the responsibility of explaining to the Stortinge how this scheme, these appropriations, works out in the country. I have to say that it is surprising to a magnification that has clearly given notice of what they think about the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2297	Then I want to repeat what I said, and then I hope the representative wants to listen to what I say. I am dealing with the current legislation, and as the Storting has said about the use of free funds. The state's free resources for municipalities and county councils can be freely disposed of by those politicians without us asking for reporting as magnification and authorities. If the Workers' Party wants a change in how it does so, and does not trust that our local politicians will experience the cultural walking stick and good culture, the Workers' Party will almost have to notify it, because then we will have to change the system so that politicians will report on the use of the free resources with which they have and support the municipalities. But it's something completely new for me, from the Workers' Party, that has never been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2302	Then there's case no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-16.ana.ud119e2316	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anything require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
