ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e66	Honourable co-representatives! On November 27, 2015, former depositor Ragnhild Barland died, 81 years old. The Labour Party politician from Skien was elected to the Stortinget in 1985 and set out for 1997. From 1983 to 1985, Mr Ragnhild Barland was rapporteur of the Skien. The experienced politician was placed in both the Storting Transport Committee, the Agriculture Committee and the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. She trained as a physical trainer and was also an instructor at Skien Gymnas until she became a staging representative. Ragnhild became a member of the City Council of Skien in 1975, where she participated in the debate for many years. In 1980 she became head of the Skien Arbeiderparti. In 1983 the Skien Arbeiderparti nominated two ladies at the top of the list for the municipal elections, Einfrid Halvorsen and Ragnhild Barland – and the ladies were elected! Skien got his first female rapporteur and vice-rapporteur. Ragnhild Barland was also interested in foreign policy and was among others. Delegate to the 1991 UN General Assembly. From 1989 to 1997, she was a member of the delegation to the Nordic Council, where she met several times. But it was environmental policy that was closest to her. And she was not afraid to turn on the big bang: in a big interview in Telemark Arbeiderblad, she concluded that the Workers' Party is Norway's best environmental party – and that she signed up. Ragnhild Barland was one of the Bautaene in Telemark Arbeiderparti. Ragnhild was one of those who deserved our thanks for everything she did for others. Ragnhild Barland was an active and committed person. She got involved not only in politics but also in volunteering and sports. Ragnhild Barland's sincerity and genuine commitment nevertheless come best to expression through all the duties and roles she entered and assumed through a long and rich life. She took her responsibility locally, in the municipality and in the national arena. Without people like Ragnhild Barland, our society would be poorer. We thank her for all the efforts she made for the party and society. We bring peace to Ragnhild Barland's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e94	The following nominated alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor More and Romesdal County: Kjell NeergaardFor Telemark County: Dag Sele The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e115	On behalf of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to follow up the Storting's decision on the structure of operating and base organisations in the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e120	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e138	Norwegian oil and gas submitted a report last week showing that a total of 50000 Norwegian oil jobs will be gone in 2017. 38 000 of them have already disappeared, while 12000 more jobs are to be lost during this year and next. The Paris agreement gave a clear signal: 195 countries have set an ambitious target on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and Norway cannot turn its back on it and continue just as before. We need a green shift, not just for the environment, but we also need to use the advantages we have in Norwegian business. Tomorrow's winners will be companies that start using green technology early, and the communities that are able to organise themselves smart, efficient and green. We have to change, and we have to retrain. We need to create new green industries with new jobs, and we need to make existing industries greener. We need to transform Norway into a green industrial nation and exploit the forest and marine resources through better bioeconomy. Figures from the SSB in February show that we now have 90 903 registered unemployed in Norway. There's almost 10,000 more than at the same time last year. When we checked yesterday, there were 16,683 full-time jobs and 2,952 part-time jobs available at finn.no. While we are seeing increasing unemployment, we are in the midst of a major refugee crisis that is creating headlines all over Europe, with a greater number of asylum seekers and also more refugees coming to Norway. It seems obvious. There is a broad consensus that the best thing is to get the refugees out of work as soon as possible. But where do you find jobs for tens of thousands of people, who do not necessarily master the language, in a situation of low economic growth and higher unemployment in a country? For some immigrant groups, the employment rate is also much lower than for the rest of the population, and they have to fight for even more jobs. As of today, we do not have a large labour market in Norway suitable for people without higher education, or unskilled. Many of them are related to the service industries, where at least languages are important. And we're not exactly in a boom. This, together with the refugee crisis, poses many challenges for Norway. But there is a solution that helps us with all of these challenges. It's to bet on foundation. We need to make it more attractive to create our own jobs, whether you've been in oil before, or you're coming to Norway for the first time. Entrepreneurship and innovation will also be important to bring about a green shift in Norway. Norway needs many new businesses to keep the well-being of us now, up to future generations. The main action to achieve more start-ups and growth businesses is to ensure significantly better access to both risky and competent capital for entrepreneurs and innovative enterprises, both through public instruments and through the launch of private investment in jobs. In addition, it is important to simplify the everyday life of business so that the public sector contributes to both conversion and innovation, and that we have a tax system that stimulates investment and ownership in Norwegian enterprises and jobs. Founders are going to play a very important role in getting the green shift. Take as an example the trade in goods. Now we've got colonial.no, which opens up for home delivery of food. It is much more environmentally friendly that one car trades for hundreds of households than that hundreds of households drive back and forth to the store. If the delivery car goes on hydrogen as well, we have a proper cheek egg. At the same time, home delivery frees time for consumers who can be used on other things, such as innovation and business start-ups. When the Left and Christian People's Party met the government parties in the Nydalen last, we made 32 proposals to facilitate better start-ups. Among them was the exemption from the employer’s fee in the first years of a start-up enterprise with less than five employees, or the creation of a scheme for subtracting green public procurement from municipalities. It is about changing the mandate and tasks of Innovation Norway, Siva and Argentum, so that they focus on the transition Norway is going through, or turning Investinor into a State venture capital fund. State and municipality must go ahead. And when the Norwegian industry is going to develop green technology, someone has to go ahead and buy it, so that it becomes a market for those conversions. The second major challenge I give the Prime Minister is to look at the social rights of entrepreneurs. We know that the main reason many people refuse to start their own business is poor social rights for mariners. The academics received a report last November — among their members — on the kind of opportunities and challenges faced by seafaring entrepreneurs. On questions about what was the biggest challenge of starting up or running your own business, 65 pst answered. that there were insufficient rights in the event of a disease, and 48 pst. black economic uncertainty/insecure performance. In addition, 60 pst. on the question that they want more information from the authorities, they want more information on pension entitlements and welfare schemes for maritime operators in relation to sickness, maternity, care and unemployment. In addition, we know that this is one of the biggest bends in getting women to start businesses. In addition, we should have had much more work to do with the founding of immigrants. Nav is good at teaching people how to set up CVs and apply for jobs, but we need other tools, such as founding training and bets on the opportunities of many of the immigrants who come from communities with strong entrepreneurial culture. The aim must be that those who attend these courses are involved and use their skills and think innovatively, and also learn something about Norwegian business and can connect with them later. In recent years, a bunch of courses and websites have been developed with tips for entrepreneurs. Is it certain that these are adapted to refugees and asylum seekers who have been accommodated and who want to start their own jobs? Are we finding information in the right places? I think that if you want to start a Syrian restaurant in Oslo, you have a big market, but you also have a big, demanding partner like the Food Authority, which I'm typing is not present in many of the Syrian cities you come from. So it's important to turn the culture into very many arenas here. All of us who have traveled and experienced Silicon Valley have seen the amazing combination of an academic culture linked to a founding society while having access to capital linked to academia and belief in academia. We have few such examples in Norway where we really manage to exploit the environment and place them together. I know that the Prime Minister has visited one of the few we have, Oslo Cancer Cluster, where we place research, business and education all the way from high school into the same environment. That's how you can build cultures that also lead to innovation. We see that we have many fields, for example. in medical research where Norway is at the forefront, where Norway is able to find researchers and research results that we could use to a much greater extent for business start-ups. But very often Norwegian ideas are bought up by other countries and are founded in other countries, both because we have poor access to capital and poor culture in academia on foundations and innovation, and because we are not going to be good enough to develop ideas in meeting money and research. Norway has a lot of opportunities to use the tools we have in the public sector, which are strong and good in Norway, but which must be turned from a very oil-based thinking to become much more open with regard to which new ideas we are going to pursue further. We have three major challenges: unemployment, transition to the green shift and many new Norwegian citizens entering the Norwegian labour market. There's actually one key that works on all three challenges, and that's that we're going to become a nation of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e170	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing an important theme that is absolutely fundamental to the government's work and certainly also for the work of all other parties in the future: how to facilitate entrepreneurship and innovation, so that we can solve the major challenges facing Norway. Norway is on its way from being in a special position and into a long period of transition. We need to renew both the public sector and our business. Therefore, the government believes it is important to make everyday life easier for businesses and people, to use the resources of society as efficiently as possible and to strengthen the competitiveness of business. The transformation we are facing requires renewal in existing businesses, and it requires the establishment of new businesses. That is why we need more entrepreneurs who establish and develop tomorrow's jobs and who contribute to the necessary transition we face – to a greener and more knowledge-based business. The recent report on productivity presented by the Commission shows a trend in productivity growth in recent years. The further development of our well-being requires that we increase productivity growth. Trine Skei Grande points to a number of challenges facing Norwegian society. It is important for example: stressing what the governor said in his year: After two decades, which can be described as a golden age, the Norwegian economy is within a demanding period. We've always known that a long-lasting oil-powered rise had to end once, either because the activity level is above the top, or because of an oil price drop. Now we're there. That's why we also see that we have increasing unemployment, especially in coastal areas. It affects businesses, it affects individuals, and it affects families. At the same time, we see some points of light in the Norwegian economy – with low oil prices, the crown has weakened. It is positive for the mainland export-oriented industry. Therefore, we could see that the marine food industry in Norway had an export record last year, and it continues into this year with growth so far this year of 24 pst. compared to the 2015 record. Another challenge we face is that there are many refugees coming into the Norwegian labour market. I agree that in the short term this is a challenge for Norwegian society. At the same time, it is important that we take care that there is also an opportunity for us in the long term. Then the transition to climate-neutral society requires major transformations into Norwegian business. The threat of climate change itself is a strong argument for the conversion of the Norwegian economy. It is vital that the world succeeds in reducing the extent of man-made climate change. In a future low-carbon society, value creation that does not entail harmful greenhouse gas emissions will be a competitive advantage. Norwegian business needs to be rusted to participate in this competition. The government is committed to Norway becoming one of the most innovative countries in Europe. For this reason, the government, very often in cooperation with the Left, has promoted a number of initiatives aimed at strengthening innovation and value creation. It's about seeing the opportunities and taking advantage of our advantages. It is absolutely necessary in the future if we are to succeed in having a diversity of industries in this country that are creating and employing new technologies. For me, it's important to state that we're not going to have one growth engine in the Norwegian economy in the future, we're going to have more growth engines. Therefore, it is important to do what we do in terms of tax relief and the great effort we now have in research and development. We've switched off at the top of 1 pst. of GDP for research and development in 2016. We have presented the first long-term plan for research and higher education. In October we presented the founding plan, where it is set at over 400 million. kr this year to make Norway a better country of business. Easier access to money, skills and networks are among the most important. Following the revised national budget last year, on the initiative of the Left, we introduced a 40 million pre-seed fund. kr. It's increased to 100 million. kr in 2016. This co-finances the State with private investors. This makes it possible to invest in young, innovative enterprises – an action that the Left has been a driver of implementation and that the government is now following up. Right now, the Minister of Industry and the Left at StartupLab is here in Oslo to present the call for funds of the year in the Eastern region. Another founding measure is the establishment of the grant scheme. We strengthened it in 2015 by 110 million. kr. Thus, in 2015, 938 entrepreneurs received support in the difficult early phase. That's twice as many as the year before. This year, through the budgetary agreement, we have strengthened the scheme by a further 150 million. kr. This will provide even more entrepreneurs with support for the realisation of their projects. It allows entrepreneurs who have new ideas with great potential to receive grants. That's why, on the government side, we're busy facilitating people to create their own jobs, and create jobs for many more. I am pleased that the representative Skei Grande addresses the social rights of self-employed people. I can inform you that the government will review the conditions of self-employed workers, in particular with a view to the relationship between payments to social security and social rights. There are many themes that you could address that contribute to growth – simplification work, road construction – but I want to say that it is important that we have room to stimulate those who have new, good ideas. Governments have promoted schemes to help uplift the founding and renewal process, including: TAX FUNN, FROM 2020 AND BIA. What we see is that all of these schemes have increased popularity in a difficult situation. The user-driven innovation arena, BIA, can be taken as an example. From the beginning of 2006 until 2015, there are 4.4 billion distributed. SEK to 520 projects. A krone of government support triggers about two kronor from other sources, mainly private. This means that this scheme has mobilised R & D activities in the business community of at least 12 billion. kr. It has led to 900 new products, services and processes and 160 new companies or research areas. It's estimated that this has given values of over 30 billion. kr. In 2016, 50 projects with a 530 million allocation framework have been committed. kr. This is an important example, but it is also important to look at how we contribute to the balance of public functions. The solutions of the future will often interact between the public and private sectors. This makes it important how we demand innovation from the public. The public sector is a domestic market for Norwegian business, often also in new areas, and it can contribute to the uptake of new knowledge. This applies, inter alia, to: for welfare technologies, based on the interaction between users, the public sector, industry and the research environment. The government will facilitate, inter alia: by simplifying procurement legislation, strengthening work on standardisation in e-health and welfare technologies and by increasing efforts on the national supply development programme. This provides several projects in which municipalities and public agencies cooperate with business to find better solutions. Being creative in purchasing is incredibly important for many newly-established companies, because they feel that the usual processes from the public make it difficult to get in with their new products. We've also seen some good examples of the green shifts lately. Hydro decided in February to invest SEK 4.3 billion. kr in a full scale pilot plant for energy and climate efficient aluminium production on Karmøy. A few days later Elkem Solar announced that they would start production in REC's old factory premises on the island of Porsgrund. The government authorised quartz mines for Elkem for this type of production in Mo i Rana. A few weeks ago, Statkraft decided to invest 11 billion. kr in wind power on the Fosen and in the Snillfjord area. These are big green conversion projects, and I want to take the opportunity to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for the active participation they have had in this. There are many good examples of immigrant entrepreneurs too. I just want to mention two: one is Nasim Rizvi, who started a company that produces halal baby food. She has conquered the Norwegian market and has now begun on the United Kingdom market. The series founder Shafi Adan started the teaching company Golden Academy AS, which offers homework. These are examples of many of our new citizens being able to contribute a lot of new and many jobs in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e210	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very thorough and thorough review. I would especially like to thank her for choosing to go through it with social rights. We get an increasingly educated population, and we know that foundation doesn't exactly increase by the number of years at university. Many of those who run small businesses around us have vocational education, which has the easiest link to the entrepreneurial culture. But it's important to do something about the whole culture of our society, from focusing on entrepreneurship in primary school to realizing that the academy is also linked to founding and getting new ideas. Therefore, it is important that the social rights that provide the security and the floor plan for many who already have a high student loan can help to facilitate. The other thing that I think was good was that the Prime Minister took up, but on which I would like to challenge her more, is about the public sector – and not only the tendering rules, but also the founding of women. Norway has an extremely gender-based labour market, and very many women work in the public sector. In Sweden, a large part of the debate on women’s wages has also dealt with the possibility of start-ups and entrepreneurship in the public sector and in traditional women’s churches. If you have a really good idea as a nurse in a small municipality in Norway today, you may not be able to set up a business within the framework of the municipality. I think it would have been possible to pursue good ideas even within traditional public women's churches. So it's very good that we get to the big grips of the big engines like Hydro, Elkem and Statkraft, but here we also have to be willing to use both the charging system and our subsidy system, so that the changes actually happen. So one last comment, which is based on our new countrymen. Many people ask, where are the workplaces of these? Workplaces are not a static size that will always be like this, that when you put two in, you get two out. Workplaces are what you create it for. Directing people, especially those who end up in the Nav system, also to the foundership, not only for CV writing and application writing, I think the key to being able to turn culture also with those who want that device to turn against. I know there are Nav offices that are capable of this, but there are also Nav offices that are not so good at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e223	Firstly, I agree that it is important to ensure that you have a security when you are a founder. One of the things we've done now is to change the daily allowance code, which is for treatment in Stortinget, from keeping the daily allowance for nine months when you're a founder, to twelve months. It gives greater certainty in that situation, it gives greater stability. And then we've said that we're going to go through the social rights and the payment that's made to the population. Then we have a basis for deciding, if necessary, what the situation is going to be like in the future. I would like to say that I disagree a little with the representative Skei Grande about one thing, and that is that there is not much founded on academics. In fact, those with high levels of education in Norway start up more than those with low levels of education. There are many of them sitting on technology and other things. This has often been a myth, perhaps with the image of some very well-known entrepreneurs in Norway who have had low education. If we look at the statistics, there's a lot of foundation here, but there's too little total -- that's where I think we can agree. It is probably a particular challenge that in Norway there are fewer immigrants compared to many other countries who are entrepreneurs, and fewer women are entrepreneurs compared to many other countries. It has enough to do with the sex-shared labour market, it has to do with the fact that where you have the competence to start your own business, there is one buyer, and that's the public sector. At the same time, when we have an over-ideological debate about not using private companies into parts of the welfare services, we have challenges. I've been following a business for a long time that I think has a great story. It's Asap of Asap of Astrid Skreosen. It's the assistant nurse who worked at the obstetrics clinic, who saw how much blood and does that comes out – President, I'm sorry, but it's the way in birth processes that there's a lot different than a child coming out – and who saw that you had to do something different and do it better, and so found a sheet to absorb all the fluid that comes out. She has told quite a few times about how difficult it is to be a founder in this context when there is a large public sector you are going to sell to. Therefore, she has developed by-products of this idea, even if she comes into markets, where she, among other things, has. have looked at typical private sectors. So now, among other things, she's delivering. to plumbers and others the same type – because there is a lot of work that comes out of the pipes even when you're doing it. So that's her idea and her background. I think we should have a public sector that was better off using this. So I want to say that the founding of immigrants is going to stimulate more. I'm glad that the Competence Center for Multicultural Value Creation in the Drama last year's anniversary. When I agreed to give the first money to set this up, we were excited, because we thought we were too bad at the foundation. I think we need to find more tools in the future to make sure that the knowledge and competences they have with them can be exploited in a more complex society. It's too few of those who come here who should create their own business, who do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e236	We live in difficult times. The fall in oil and gas industries is hitting businesses hard, and unemployment is increasing, particularly in the South and the West. Fresh figures show that in my home country, More and Romesdal, unemployment has increased by almost 35 pst. compared to February last year. Kristiansund is hit hardest with a total of 5.5 pst. unemployed. The government's response to dramatic developments is a so-called crisis package, a package few have seen anything about in the areas that are experiencing the crisis. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party has proposed a number of concrete measures such as business and working life demand. These include the exploration of oil wells, the provision of ferry services, measures to implement more environmentally friendly technologies, several action areas, increased apprenticeship grants, several study places and a more flexible permit regulation. The working party has constantly pointed to and thought in three tracks: activities, actions for new jobs and measures to ensure competence. It is sad to note that the government devalues the increasing unemployment. When the Prime Minister says to the VG that she believes that unemployment is not particularly high, it must be allowed to ask if this is really something she believes, or if she was misunderstood by the journalist. The truth is, unemployment has not been higher in almost 30 years. It's dramatic for society and even more dramatic for the people who become unemployed. When More and Romesdal County Councils expressed their opinion on the state budget before Christmas, they demanded a more flexible law of leave, as the workers' and employers' organisations have requested. The Right Party and the Progress Party in More and Romesdal support this claim. But governments say no, no, no. It is sad that the government ignores clear signals from both social organisations and private parties in the country. The government should listen more to those who have their shoes on than clinging to political captors. The consequence of the government's saying no is that businesses are losing important competences that they need right now during their transition, for innovation and for the future. The Prime Minister’s response to the demand for more flexible rules of leave is that the government will not lock the workforce of low-profit enterprises in the West. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister insulted many business managers and employees with this opinion. In today's newspaper, Minister of Labour Annicken Hauglie maintains that the government believes that there is no crisis and that they will not do anything about the rules of leave. The government obviously needs a reality orientation. Targeted policies to promote entrepreneurs and contribute to innovation are important. In this debate, it is also important to remind ourselves that most of the forward-looking innovation takes place within established businesses, clusters and industrial environments. The Labour Party has proposed a number of measures that will improve the conditions for entrepreneurs and businesses that will contribute to development and innovation and to the transition to a climate-neutral society. The workforce of the Workers' Party is directed both at entrepreneurs in the start-up phase and towards existing businesses. In our budget, we propose more than the government, and we have, for example, priority both instigated grants, pre-seed funds, seed funds, loan schemes and guarantee schemes. The working party also places more emphasis on early-stage capital for entrepreneurs than the government. In addition, we're proposing $100 billion. kr to the Climate Technology Fund, ferries electrification, smart cities programmes, increased investment in climate research, development of hydrogen-based transport infrastructure and pilot projects in Norwegian industry that can lead Norway in the development of new climate technologies. The Labour Party has an offensive and targeted industrial policy. Last week we put forward a new industrial strategy for the country – while the government spends its time. The industry message that Stortinget asked for a year ago comes at best before Christmas. The bioeconomy strategy is waiting, the forest report is waiting, and the travel news is waiting. The government is surprisingly passive at a time when we need an active state to facilitate business development and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e259	I'd like to commend the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic, which should be discussed a lot. I think she's right when she says that we might need a cultural change throughout the debate, because Norway actually has to find out to future winners elsewhere than in the long run. Let's hope that we continue to find them there, too, but maybe we'll start adopting some of the culture that's behind the tribute we have from athletes to succeed. We must cultivate an understanding of what is needed to succeed, and an enthusiasm and support for those who dare to sacrifice what is needed to create the winners of the future. And then we'll find some of the nucleus. Then we all know that we are facing a crisis today, and it is completely different from the financial crisis. There are in many ways two waves that hit us – we're going to a greener and more sustainable bet, and we've got an oil crisis that no one could control. Green shifts aren't, as you can see, something magical, it's been running some sectors in Norway for 100 years, and the previous speaker mentioned one of them: the forest sector. It's been a green sector every year. We have a lot to build on. But I also think you're a little too quick to write off the oil, because the oil has carried us up to today, and it's a question of also finding technologies that can change the image we have of the oil today as something that needs to be phased out. I think that's what the Minister of Oil and Energy says, that the person who turns back the last crane in the North Sea has not yet been born. So we have a lot to build on. But we have a challenge in saying what the future will bring, no one can predict it. I think the example from Lillehammer-OL is perhaps the best. Under Lillehammer-OL in 1994 — not so long ago, many remember it — there were three or four PCs connected to the Internet, and only some American journalists used it. Over 20 years, the world has turned its head, today no one lives without being on the Internet almost every day. What we can say is that knowledge is going to be absolutely central. The government has made a lot of efforts, and we have a lot of goals in terms of the results, among other things. for real subjects that are important. A strong ownership I think will be absolutely central. We are discussing the safety of entrepreneurs, but I think that you know that you can also harvest fruits from a successful bet, is absolutely central. Equity and a tax system that stimulates innovation become central. That's where we know the wealth tax debate. Without equity, there will be no new jobs, either in existing industry or in new industries and new businesses. We know that infrastructure and transport and expanding labour market regions are going to be central to innovation and to creating the kind of clusters that will carry us forward. We have discussed this with productivity. The development of productivity in Norway has been desirable since 2005, and I believe, as the Prime Minister also pointed out, that opening up new sectors that have so far been fully dominated by public actors is extremely important, not just to increase productivity, but to give women opportunities for entrepreneurial activity and to create their own future. Here we have a lot to discuss in the future. The main element is that we politicians have a very important job in facilitating the framework conditions, but we don't have very good assumptions to pick out future winners. We have to admit that. We're pretty much familiar with the business that has problems. Then they come to us. We almost never get a visit from those who are busy creating the jobs we're going to live on in 20-25 years. I think we should remember that. The government has done a lot and is on track to facilitate the framework conditions for the future business life we're going to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e276	Let me first of all thank the interpellant Skei Grande for a very timely and not least important interpellation. We are now facing one of the most demanding economic situations in a long time. Parts of the Norwegian economy and business life are strongly influenced by the sharp fall in the oil price. Around the summer of 2014, the price of a barrel of North Sea oil was about $151. A few months ago, we reached a preliminary tip of the $27 barrel, and still it's very uncertain what evolution will be like in the future. This situation has had serious consequences for many of its businesses and businesses. A number of companies have been embossed by crews, lay-offs, order-and-order droughts and ships in circulation. Many individuals who had safe jobs and were longing for employment have now lost their income. Their financial obligations, on the other hand, have not disappeared at all. This situation is therefore very serious for many people. In addition to increased unemployment as a result of the challenges in the petroleum industry, we are facing a historical migration wave. Many people have come to this country to seek a better life for themselves and theirs. A major challenge in this regard is to get these people out of work. One of the core issues facing the Norwegian economy is therefore the demand for public welfare transfers at a time when tax revenue is significantly lower than in the past. Everyone in this room knows it's not sustainable for a long time. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, contribute to stimulating the Norwegian economy and business by facilitating the creation of new jobs. Future jobs are created, they are not adopted. It is therefore essential that we facilitate an offensive innovation policy that stimulates entrepreneurial activity and entrepreneurship. Future jobs are created by people who dare to take a chance, who dare to bet on their own ideas, abilities and resources. We need more entrepreneurs that start profitable companies that contribute to increased innovation and value creation. It is essential that Norway is a good country to start and develop new activities in order to meet the need for industrial change. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that has worked since day one to make it easier to be a founder in this country. Last year the government presented its founding plan, which presents a historical venture on foundations. Strengthening the establishment grant scheme, simplifying the regulatory framework for start-ups and setting up grants for young entrepreneurs are some of the several measures included in this plan. This is good practice that can transform good ideas from individuals to future jobs in the short and long term. However, innovation is more than just the start-up of enterprises based on individual ideas. For the Progress Party, it is important that those who start their own business have more freedom to create and operate their businesses. It is therefore important to increase access to start-up capital for entrepreneurs. High taxes and taxes are also often a handicap in business, and many companies find it challenging to pay bills. Founding Mathias Mikkelsen, in a chronicle in the evening post for a time, stated that ‘the Norwegian property tax makes it impossible for entrepreneurs like me to build new businesses that Norway wants and needs’, and that the company as Facebook could therefore not exist in this country. The party of progress has always been clear about the need to reduce taxes and taxes on business. High public costs hamper companies' development, which is the last thing we need with today's economic situation. In these days you can see offshore ships that stay at berth for weeks, yet they have to pay bills to the state, even though their earnings have fallen sharply. Much of the answer to what creates the jobs of the future lies in the extent to which politicians are able to give greater economic freedom to those who start developing this country's businesses. It will help meet the need for change and will create more jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e295	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important topic at a time when we are experiencing a severe fall in the oil price. It makes people lose their jobs. As a result, industry, especially in the South and West, has difficult times. This will be more noticeable in the rest of the country gradually. There's no reason to enjoy the situation that this has brought us into. Firstly, it increases unemployment and reduces income. Secondly, the oil price is not a low start on any green shift. It is not that the oil will lose because it will be cheap; on the contrary, low oil prices will reduce the transition to other energy sources. Therefore, I hope it was a small delay on the part of the Prime Minister when she could be perceived as clearly positive that the Norwegian krona had a low value. It's like a low dollar rate is a sign that things aren't quite good at this, and that it's best to have a high value on the dollar. It is a challenge when we talk about this year’s new word 2015 – ‘the green shift’. It is definitely necessary to fill with content. I have registered that the verb “on foundation” has been launched as a candidate for this year’s new word 2016. It may happen, but we have a debate that is too full of honorary words. ‘Sharing economy’ is used when you need a pause of thought, and I also fear that ‘foundation’ can become a honeymoon without sufficient content. Because it's okay to live off and get an income from delivering food on the door to people. It is quite okay to get their income from running a car park company and pay fines to people who have parked in error. It's possible for the individual to live on, but we as a country can't live by driving the food home for each other and giving each other fines. So what we produce, the term ‘trade balance’ could perhaps be a candidate for the 2016 new word of the year. I hope the Prime Minister will contribute to that. Founding — yes — but never forget the existing companies, the locomotives in Norwegian business, Telenor, Statoil, Hydro, Kongsberg Group, State Power, to name a few, and the wide variety of small and medium-sized enterprises. The vast majority of innovation and value creation are going to be based on these companies. In the short term, I believe that the government has to do three things: the government has to extend the permit. Many companies that have supplied oil and gas need time to convert, and there is a need for increased access to permitations. Give businesses that opportunity. Then we need a package of measures targeted at the South and the West – and not a package of measures where parts of the package go to the South and the West. I am pleased that Rogaland Højre's annual meeting also underlined the need for new measures in the fight against unemployment. And then the Prime Minister has a great chance of saving a few hundred – perhaps up to a thousand – jobs in Eastfold by not introducing the fare from 1 April. Take it with you. Much that has been said in the debate is good, and the Central Party supports it. It is also good that the Prime Minister launches a review of the social arrangements for entrepreneurs. I have noticed something about the use of the word to the government. Often someone says where you want to go, and I hope that this is a so-called review with a view to improvement. Furthermore, simplification is important for entrepreneurs. Let there now be measures such as exemption from audit obligations and the type of action, more than symbol actions such as: Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e312	Norway is on the way from a very good situation to a necessary transition. To meet the changes and seize the opportunities that the changes give us, we need to renew our business. I underline change and renewal. We need both innovation in our established businesses, and we need more innovative businesses. We need more good entrepreneurs to establish these businesses and develop jobs for tomorrow. However, many innovative entrepreneurs struggle to access capital at the very earliest stage. The Left has therefore fought in several budget rounds to establish a so-called ‘pre-seed fund’ scheme. It will increase access to capital in the difficult early stages of innovative business start-ups. Incubators and networks of business angels shall manage the funds, which shall be matched by private investment capital. In the context of the revised budget 2015, 40 million were allocated. SEK in grants to the plan and in 2016 the plan was increased to 100 million. SEK, of which 50 million. kr. is a one-year bet. The left has been a strong driver for this, and today the government – together with us – is launching the scheme at StartupLab in the Research Park. I am very pleased about that, and this was also the Prime Minister inside his first post. Very good! The Presåke Fund scheme shall contribute to the financing of young, innovative enterprises with private capital. The investment must therefore be matched with private capital. This implies at least as much private investment as public capital in enterprises. This is important for the Left. Investors have a strong influence on which projects are funded and will also impart competence to the entrepreneur through its ownership. The scheme will make a good contribution to conversion by supporting new innovative businesses and technologies. The funds could provide important support in a demanding start-up phase for about 50 entrepreneurs. In addition, the Left wishes to extend the system of nationwide grant grants to growers. Although the scheme has been significantly extended through the last budgetary agreement with the government parties, Innovation Norway reports that the entire amount has been used up and that it is only about. 1 000 of the more than 50000 enterprises that start each year, supported by Innovation Norway in this area. This is too low, especially when we see figures from the SSB showing that enterprises supported by Innovation Norway – which cooperates with Innovation Norway, if you like – have almost 10 pst. greater growth than non-assisted enterprises. For this reason, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister on what plans the government has for establishing the grant in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e329	Thanks to the interpellant for taking up a very important topic. Now is the time to reflect on why the downturn in the oil industry is hitting us so hard. Of course, the oil has been a blessing, but for many years the oil industry has also been a ginger in the Norwegian economy that has pushed sustainable industries out of the nest. The cost-effectiveness of the petroleum activity has reduced the possibility of profitable activities in other areas, the possibility of further processing Norwegian resources in Norway and the possibility of taking positions in new markets. Many sustainable, innovative jobs and businesses have been sacrificed in the interest of the oil industry. Therefore, it is time to realize that we now have to approach a competitive cost level. What we need in the years to come is to develop a much more varied business life within the framework of nature, not more private purchasing power. A selection of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens Firstly, Norway should become a leading player in international renewable energy, thus creating large environments where Norwegian competence can breed – both outdoors and at home. Public ownership should be used to develop State power and other companies for heavy international renewable actors, and we need a national strategy for investing ownership of renewable energy in developing countries, with a green investment bank and risk capital for Norwegian investment. After that, for example: the oil fund enters and provides long-term security to investors. Another proposal is to change today's depreciation policy. It requires large investments to implement a green transition. Inefficient and fossil technologies need to be replaced by efficient technologies and the renewable energy industry – in public transport, shipping, the bioeconomy, etc. Our committee therefore proposes to introduce full deductions for investment that reduces the burden on the environment. Enterprises that invest in this way will then receive little or no tax in the investment phase – until it is over and an accounting surplus can be taxed. A third proposal is schemes for innovation and commercialisation that increase risk capital and are designed to promote green activities where Norway has competitive advantages and/or resources. The country needs to take a greater risk of success in large-scale projects, and it needs to establish tool packages for selected bet companies – game change, which it is called in neo-Norwegian – for example. by matching public risk capital. A fourth proposal is that innovation and investment schemes must be developed from just focusing on small innovation to also boosting large, green transformation into existing private and public activities. In addition, in the Environmental Party De Greenen's 2016 alternative state budget, we have, among other things, proposed that Norway should focus on our large remaining energy resource and use our world-leading competence and competitive advantage to build industry on sea winds. Sea breezes are now expensive, but it's going to be cheaper when some bets. The question is who. Today’s technology-neutral support regime in Norway has led us to only two test mills at sea, and other countries are moving away from us in the development of sea winds. So we have to choose completely against the government's disastrous execution of Statoil's strategic sea win. We also need to invest in Norway. The scale and level of ambition of the Mongstad project is an interesting scale. In addition, we have proposed a major effort on the management and processing of living natural resources. Such a biostake requires much more knowledge than today about nature, it requires more education, more screening and a bioprospecting programme. Norway needs a ‘Bionova’ based on Enova model in order to systematise innovation and increase the commercialisation of biobased value creation, and we probably need a similar development centre for marine industries, a ‘Marinova’. We need to shift taxes from work to consumption and environmentally harmful production. Entrepreneurship needs to be facilitated, job creation needs to be facilitated, and job creation needs to be profitable in environmental technologies, renewable energy, recycling and repair. We have to do that to carry out a real green shift. We hope, not least, that the Financial Committee will meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e353	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda. Working for everyone is the number one job, is an old and good slogan for the work movement, and now it is clearly absolutely necessary to clear this slogan again. Today, in the newspaper, we could read that Minister of Labour Anniken Hauglie rejects the fact that there is some ‘unemployment crisis’ – and we are actually in the middle of the greatest unemployment in almost 30 years. The government cannot load for the low oil price, but the government is responsible for managing the unemployment situation, and the record high unemployment rate is on the Right and the Guard of the Progress Party. The government will probably cancel the handling of this when writing history. The situation in the South and the West is very demanding. Therefore, it is important that an active enterprise policy should be followed by action on concrete measures to improve the situation — not bringing about new distributions. We see a government that conducts a business-neutral policy, and rather prioritises tax cuts – 18 billion. kr so far – and call it growth-promoting tax havens. No, that's not it. The government's own experts are also not able to demonstrate remarkable growth effects. It's tax havens for the richest. I have to admit that I'm starting to get a little tired of words. We follow the situation carefully, and it has been a repetition. But then the Minister of Labour took the magazine from his mouth today and said straight away that the government thinks there is no unemployment crisis. How many more people need to lose the job before they want to respond? Today, Aker Solutions announced that they're cancelling an additional 600 people, now they're up to 1,500 this year, and there were about 1,000 quits last year. But instead of taking the word "unemployed" in your mouth, say a conversion. It's actually not the same thing. The switchover is also not a matter of suddenly being invented by the government, but some Norwegian companies have been operating on a continuous basis. It is precisely a matter of conversion that has been given priority to Norwegian companies. I also have to admit that the interpellant and the Prime Minister spent a lot of time on small entrepreneurs, and that is important. But what about concrete actions for bud-shooting in existing businesses and concrete actions to get people to work? The top boss Walter Qvam in Kongsberg The group gave a big interview just before Christmas. There he also received support from the other leaders who were asked – in Hydro, Elkem, Janusfabriken and Kleven Verft. His message was ringing clear: ‘It is paradoxical that government instruments go almost exclusively to start-up businesses, while there is very little focus on all the hundreds of medium-sized enterprises with sales from 20 to 3 million kroner. It is these companies that are to become the new tribe of Norwegian industry.» These include: here the permitting code comes in as one of several elements. It's not lucrative to go out on the spot. A person does not lose the motivation to search for other enterprises, but as long as companies can permit rather than quit, they maintain the valuable contact with what is invested very much, namely the skills workforce. It is not that the unemployed person feels like a punch for something better. For most people there is actually a big blow in the face: the economic uncertainty – and one loses the community of good colleagues. It is that nine out of ten lay-offs return to work, and eight out of ten in the same company as before, not necessarily in the same job, but the same company – and the company retains competence. I've been visiting almost 20 companies this year, and there's an unisoned demand from the vast majority of these: please, change the permit code, let's keep our skills workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e377	Interpellant addresses a very central theme in a challenging time in Norway. We have an increasing unemployment, mainly caused by the fall in the oil price, because we see that it is very different around the country. In quite a few counties, there is no increasing unemployment; in some places it actually goes the other way. What applies in such a situation is, in short and well, as the interpellant also mentions, creating new jobs. Then the question is, what is the role of the public in this? I would like to give tribute to the Left for the cooperation we have had through more budgetary conciliation in the Grand Duchy. It is precisely about creating new jobs, focusing on entrepreneurial activity and on small businesses both in individual actions – of which we have done a lot – and also the big picture of creating new businesses in Norway. Then I'm talking about prioritising investment in knowledge, education, research – not least linking research and business together. We are talking about prioritizing and streamlining investment in transport, which is at the bottom of what is needed to build new jobs in this country. Being able to expand living and working conditions is one thing, getting goods and products out of the country something else. In addition, what I heard from one of the speakers here is a little scornful calling for growth-promoting tax relief: tax is important for businesses, and it is also important for entrepreneurs. When Trine Skei Grande says that entrepreneurs are going to play a significant role in the new development of jobs, she is right. But you can expand that concept and say that new ideas can play an important role in the development of new jobs. Then it's right, as several others also point out here, that new ideas not only arise from entrepreneurs. New ideas arise not least in the existing companies. Then we come to one of the critical points that the interpellant also has in mind: she says that entrepreneurs experience economic uncertainty, uncertain earnings. But they experience one more thing: how are they going to be able to finance both what they're starting up, and what they're going to think about going on with? Then we come to the capital. Yes, the public must be in and contribute capital, but with the private. In fact, this capital cannot be taxed in such a way that it cannot contribute to precisely these new jobs. It's this symbiosis, that is, this collaboration between entrepreneurs who have contacts with the owners of existing companies. They may not only own one company. They may be interested in, and they may also own, more. It's using capital effectively towards something new, towards the green, towards what's new and green, but also towards what's greener than what's existing, which is quite important. Finally, since we are talking about action packages, and that alternative action packages in the alternative budgets would be even more effective for the situation we are in: let me then just remind some of the parties that say this, that in their alternative budget they say that industry and those who wear shoes are asking for them and the arrangements. I also meet many people in the business world. I have not heard any demand 10 billion. kr in tax reliefs to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e390	I would also like to start by thanking Trine Skei Grande for a very important discussion and the Prime Minister for her answer. We have two strong, female party leaders who one day can discuss value creation with great clarity and the other day can discuss the major migration challenges in the world. The world is actually a good entry into this discussion. Over a decade or two, we can approach 9 billion people on Earth. Some of the billions of people will face some major health challenges — many of them already. It says something about the world going to need Norway and Norwegian knowledge, especially in the health sector. If we dare to take the opportunity that we have right now, we are in a window of time where we have invested both great money and great human resources in knowledge that the world may have enjoyed. One of our legacy silver is the Norwegian biobanks. It is world-class public health that the North-Trunde Team Health Survey and the Tromsø Survey have been in place for four decades and have taken systematic care of, and that the health scientists of the world are working on. We have seen in the last few years how Norway has contributed to vaccine development. There will be a great need for vaccines in the future. Antibiotic resistance challenges world health. In this area, Norway is well advanced and can make a significant contribution. Water is going to be a challenge for many parts of the world in the future. In this area, too, Norway has an amazing knowledge and a huge resource, which we take a little too often for granted. Where there is a lack of health, there is often also a shortage of water. If Norway is to make use of this knowledge, we need a small cultural change. We have a very good public welfare system in Norway and a very good health sector. But we have to harness the knowledge of those who work in that sector, and then we also have to look at how it can become something more dynamic and not as theoretical and introverted as parts of it are today. If we are to get more women to ‘found’ in the health and welfare sectors, we must give them the opportunities. This implies a security of daily life. If you're going out of a safe job in the public sector, you have to be able to get social rights that make you dare to take that chance. Today, employees have 100 pst. sickness benefit from day one. Sick businessman has 65 pst. from Day 17. That's one of the challenges we have to look at. There are also many other small measures that we can take. It's about unrequited research effort. Many of those in the health and welfare sector are willing to reduce the research effort without excessive contributions, especially if the country can make a small contribution on the road. Pre-qualification of investors – so-called business angels – is another small instrument that can enable the State to provide it similar to that of a business angel. Direct deduction of research and development costs is an instrument. We can extend the gift-enhancing scheme to the health sector, especially for university hospitals. Public-private cooperation to a lesser extent, so that private individuals can play a little more on the commercial support apparatus that the public sector has, can trigger more innovation, development and entrepreneurial activity. Not least social entrepreneurship, where entrepreneurs get to join and develop the public sector and the public sector can buy back models that we all enjoy, I would also mention. We see good examples. The Prime Minister reminded us of someone. Speaking of ‘some’: some AS in Steinkjer has shown that there are opportunities, and I think we can enjoy this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e420	I also want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. As several speakers have pointed out, all experience shows that we have the greatest potential for innovation in existing business environments and industries where we have natural advantages, such as marine, maritime, hydroelectric and energy. It is then important that the instrument be further developed – we get very good feedback on the tax FUNN – but we may also need new tools to get the transition to green blue development. However, the health industry is also an important and new area, in which Mr Ketil Kjenseth was also involved. We know that we have a strong public health system, unique register data and high level of education, created competitive advantages that are quite unique. There are also few jobs that are as international as in health, which also provide opportunities for our new compatriots. But all industries have their characteristics, and the development of new drugs and treatments takes a long time. It requires that we find good models to finance the long time it takes for clinical trials. We are also very pleased – it was also with the help of the Left – that we established a seed based on the experience that Sarsia Seed in Bergen has gained in medicine and biotechnology. The Labour Party has put forward proposals for personalised medicine and spent money on this in our budget. We have also made proposals, which are now being dealt with in the United Kingdom, on the need for a national company that can benefit from all the system benefits Norway has in the form of unique biobanks, registers and health data. However, in the view of the Workers' Party, cancer research and cancer medicine should be a new strategic focus. Norwegian researchers and companies are world-class in immunooncology, and with our good access to cancer records and biobanks, we can take management internationally in precision medicine. There is international competition for the good minds and innovative health and ICT enterprises. Norway must therefore act quickly, otherwise the United States or other places that appear to be more attractive are chosen. In order to develop a new health industry, it is wise to invest in the strong environments. We need locomotives that can drive development, just like we've had Statoil, Telenor, Statkraft and Kongsberg Group. Oslo Cancer Cluster has demonstrated in ten years that they can take that position in Norway. They have 180 employees today. They traded for $760 million. kr in 2014 and last year they collected 965 million. kr. They have set up both a national — for all major cities in Norway — and an international network of enterprises and research communities that are very close to development. This morning, we were told that Oslo Cancer Cluster, together with six corresponding European clusters on medicine and ICT, has succeeded in awarding 45 million EU projects. NOK 35 million. kr of these shall go unabated to small and medium-sized enterprises which are part of the clusters. They shall use the digital revolution to develop cancer treatment systems. It is now that they have made the plan, and it is now that they need support to get the governance they need, so that Norway, even though we are a very small country in relation to the global health industry, can capitalise on all our advantages and create jobs also in Norway. Then there's the good thing about the health industry: it's a dual-profit industry. It creates smart and effective treatment that will increase the quality of life and save many lives, while creating highly attractive jobs and unique value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e437	First of all, I want to thank so many people who have chosen to participate. I notice that it is only SV and the Christian People's Party who have chosen not to participate in this debate. Both the Right, the Working Party and the Left – the three big – have participated with many posts. I think that's great. It's like if you just have a hammer, every problem shows up like nails. But this is really a hammer that works for many of the challenges Norway is facing. What I think is important to notice is the understanding that we have to turn cultures around. Sometimes large companies shoot buds, but sometimes there are also seeds or cuttings from other industries that produce new businesses. It is illogical that the Norwegian breeding adventure woke up at Ås. There is no logic to suggest that it was the geographical place where you realized that you were going to start breeding fish. In the same way, I think maybe we nordics are not good enough to see what talents and environments we have, as the last speaker – and also I – raised about Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is an important engine that we do not fully recognize that we have among ourselves. We need to be more competent to bring forward those who are really going to reverse such trends, and we have to admit that we have an environment in Norway that has a potential in itself that is much greater than what is being discussed in the daily debate. Three to four years ago, I had a play where I said that I thought it was stupid that so many young people trained against the oil industry. Then I was strangled by the Workers' Party to talk the oil industry down. What has happened to the oil price in the last year has not happened because it is so good for the environment – high energy prices are good for the environment – but it is a ‘wake up call’ for Norway that we should be happy for, because we have to make such a big transition that we really have to get up early. The fall in oil prices we have now experienced has been a wake-up to the entire Norwegian economy, to the entire Norwegian labour market and to the entire Norwegian industrial policy. We have to take it seriously, and we have to get up right away, because it's a pretty long working day ahead of us turning an economy that's been so oil-powered, in order to create the new businesses that will be the basis for our well-being forever in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e451	I too would like to thank you for an interesting debate. There have been many good examples of good enterprises, good conversion measures and good start-ups. I want to initially just answer that no, I do not mean that the lower price is good, but in today's situation we all have to admit that the lower price is good. Lower exchange rates will stimulate other parts of the Norwegian economy, and it is part of the Norwegian economy that has paid for the high price. We have lost jobs, we have lost businesses – which in today’s situation would be competitive – in the adaptation we have had to the oil age and oil activity in Norway, with a higher wage level and greater competition challenges. That's why the exchange rate helps a lot. Unfortunately, I cannot give a strategy here for establishing the grant – that is part of the budgetary procedures we have every year – but we have prioritised increasing the grant of the grant for the last few years. Therefore, there has been a significant increase in it during this government. We believe it is important that people should be able to start their own businesses. And we know that in situations like this, there are many good ideas that can be realized, because people think differently and want to do something new. I think it's important to look at people's skills and know that on that basis we have great adaptability. We have gradually gained a fantastic cancer industry – we have a lot of competence. We have a lot of competence in health. I've been saying for a long time that welfare and health technologies think I can be a great industry in Norway, but we need to discuss how we make sure to stimulate it. And then when we get examples like Astrid Skreosen, who tells us how hard it is for her to sell into the decision-making processes in our health care system, and describes how it makes her find new ways, among other things. To bring it up in other countries and in other markets, there must be a danger signal for us about how we do it. If we believe that it is only the public sector that is to promote well-being in Norway, we say no to entrepreneurs in this whole area. Then we say no to those who are going to contribute, we say no to creating new things, and we make it harder. It also has to be taken over by the Working Party. Then I want to comment on one thing. There are several from the Workers' Party who have quoted part of a sentence that was written in the VG, that I believe that the vacancy is not particularly high. I answered a question about high-record unemployment. I said yes, in numbers, but not in percent – ‘in percent the unemployment is still low,’ [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e466	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is going to be equal to 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e480	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e487	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the occasion of the case. So first of all, I would like to promote the proposal contained in the document, a minority proposal from the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, which says that we ask the government to propose the necessary changes to the rules and measures to ensure that minority-speaking people are able to combine different schemes such as language training, introduction and other formal training and work schemes – on the basis of the model of the trials of training for health professionals in the municipalities of Røros and Gloppe. Then I expect the majority to explain their views. What the proposers point to is the need to spend both time and money more effectively when integrating refugees and getting training and education in Norway, and that the necessary flexibility throughout the system responsible for integration, education and work, we need to achieve. In addition, it is necessary to look at changes in the housing arrangements. We must all help to reconcile the forces that want to contribute to good integration. We must not contribute to disunity and negligentness under fear and uncertainty. This is incredibly important in order to succeed in integrating those who are allowed to stay and who are about to start their life as contributors in Norway. A prerequisite for integration is fundamental values that over generations have shaped Norwegian society: democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality and equality. The state, the municipalities, the volunteers and the individual have an important role to play to ensure that we all succeed. Those who come to Norway represent a resource if we give them the opportunity to succeed. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands. We have to make sure that everyone who becomes part of the Norwegian social contract does their duty, and can then claim their right. An organised working life, equality and inclusion is the key to strengthening the Norwegian social model and creating a society with small differences between people. The clear starting point is that everyone should do their duty and demand their right, but then we also need a policy that facilitates more people getting into work, and an integration policy that includes. The contribution of newly arrived refugees should be promoted and stimulated. It must not be complicated, nor by simple rhetoric. It is very important to include refugees with a residence permit in the ordinary working life as soon as possible. Nav needs to use the regulatory system flexibly to get people in action. For refugees with a residence permit to be able to serve for their lives, it is not enough to require that you set up and learn Norwegian. The Community must also facilitate our success. Therefore, it is important that the legislation relating to the introduction programme, Norwegian training and work is practised and that it is complied with, but that it also becomes flexible. It is also important that all those who come from a life of little or no education receive an offer tailored to their level. It is vital for integration not to be forced into a course of education that is unrealistic, just as we need to identify as soon as possible the competences and higher education of newly arrived refugees that can be used in working life. So it's a special challenge to get women to participate in the world of work. Integration is not just integration, it is also an equality struggle. Here it is important that the community imposes participation while at the same time we have to set up. Here, the continuation of existing practices and the establishment of new courses, such as Job and New Chance, aimed at women, can become important. We also need to benefit from such schemes by making active use of the input from women participating in such programmes. Then we can learn more about how more women can get into work. However, flexibility in the mechanisms currently in place and regulatory changes need to be made in order to cope with the important integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e508	The representative Eirin Sund has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e511	It is important to have a strong focus and a strong pressure to facilitate, so that everyone who has a working capacity and is out of work comes to work. These are refugees, immigrants, those who have become unemployed, and people with reduced working capacity who need some organization. Work is important for anyone who can work. It's about self-respect and quality of life. It's a saying that says, "Retirement is the root of all evil," and it's very true in it. Being idle and having nothing to do is actually going on. It feels pointless and depressing. That's why it's important that we use time and money effectively in training and qualifying refugees and immigrants who come to our country and stay here. Language training is important and also more flexible in legislation regulating the introduction programme, education and Nav’s various schemes. As the Council of State refers to in its response to the Committee, there will be a communication to the European Council on lifelong learning and exclusion this spring. The notification is directed towards adults with poor basic skills, low education or who do not receive their education recognised and who are at risk of falling out of or have fallen out of the labour market. Immigrants are a central part of this target population. The notification has been jointly prepared by the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion. The aim is to achieve a more coordinated and comprehensive policy and to improve the system in each sector, so that the provision of services is more coordinated, because more flexibility is important. It does a lot of good that may not be well known, and that should therefore be shared. We have a business and companies that take social responsibility and help more immigrants get into the labour market. I want to mention Telenor. They have developed, in cooperation with Nav, a program called Telenor Open Mind Integration. The programme targets high-educated immigrants from the non-Western world. Many of these people only experience jobs as taxi drivers or cleaners. The programme is a targeted training in communication, project work and cultural understanding, and what challenges people from the non-Western world face with Norwegian working life and our way of being. Participants gain valuable knowledge and real work experience in Telenor or in companies with which Telenor cooperates. They are introduced into informal and formal regulations in Norwegian working life and training and assistance in job search. It is a win-win project: businesses are given access to good labour, participants are shown what they can do, and society is given access to available labour, which creates values. Telenor on Fornebu has hit the blink. The integration program is a huge success. Of those who have applied for and been included in the programme, three out of four have got a normal job or started their own business. One example is Izzy. During 18 months in Norway, he received 125 rejections of job applications, before he got a job after a short time on the Telenor Integration programme. Izzy's a find,' says his boss. Cooperation with normal working life is a success factor for success, and the government will therefore strengthen the system of working practices and training in ordinary working life, motivate employers to take a greater chance of hiring those who are initially somewhat uncertain by offering different arrangements, increasing the use of wage subsidies, introducing a new inclusion grant to cover the costs incurred by the employer in the deployment of action participants, and establishing a new follow-up and organisation agreement that ensures both the employer and the action participant follow-up and the contact person in Nav. If we are to succeed in including more people who are striving to get into work, everyone must be involved and contribute. We have to divide the good examples, and we actually need more companies that see opportunities and not constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e530	I'm glad that the integration agreement in Stortinget clearly states that there is a connection between the number of immigrants Norway accepts, and the chance we have of happiness in integration. The most important integration measure is a restrictive immigration policy, and is there one thing that the current situation with halving the oil price has shown us, is that work cannot be decided but must be created. Participation in the labour market is crucial in order to achieve good integration. Employment policy, business policy and immigration policy form the basis for a good integration policy. A too fast immigration not only leads to a lack of labour supply, but can also lead to several other challenges for our society, for example. challenges related to training in Norwegian norms and values. At the same time, we are forced to work to help immigrants who are likely to be permanently suspended in Norway to enter the labour market. The welfare community depends on our being able to increase the participation of several immigrant groups. We would like to create more taxpayers and fewer recipients of social security among those groups. We need to make effective use of time and money in the training and qualification of refugees who stop in Norway. It is important to ensure the proper implementation of the introduction programme, education and work opportunities. At the same time, we should stress in all respects that successful integration depends on the efforts of the individual refugee himself. I would warn against creating the impression that the state should solve all the problems refugees and asylum seekers face in their everyday lives. If a bus stops in a country with a different culture and language, we as a society should be clear that the refugees themselves have to make a significant effort to learn the Norwegian language and our culture. In the spring of 2016, the government will present a Communication to the European Council on Lifelong Learning and Outreach, an Integration Communication. The message is directed towards adults with poor basic skills, low education or who do not receive the approved education and who are at risk of falling out of work or who have already fallen out of work. Immigrants are a central part of this target group. The aim is to develop a more co-ordinated and holistic policy to help more people have a stable employment relationship. The Government will use this message to provide measures to improve the arrangements in each sector and to improve the coordination of service provision. This message will provide a solid basis for discussing these types of integration challenges, and I look forward to the debate that the Storting will have after we have received the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e543	The Christian People's Party supports the intention of the proposers in this matter to improve the framework and regulatory framework for integration so that we can spend time and money more effectively when integrating refugees. We believe in more flexible ways of combining language training and work or working practices. It could be a key to moving on. For many, language training will go much faster if you learn Norwegian in interaction with others, colleagues, at a workplace rather than just sitting at a school desk. In this connection, we show that in the asylum agreement on the Stortninget between the government parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, there was an agreement that the government should assess the possibilities of more combining work and language training. The Christian People's Party also believes that the rules and practices for granting temporary work permits need to be considered. Today, too many asylum seekers become passive. It seems destructive, and it doesn't make it easy to live a decent and meaningful life. Getting more into the labour market will facilitate integration and save Norway for millions of dollars. Today's scheme is a liability and makes it difficult to become independent of public support. Proposalers also point out that several places in the country are running a four-year course for the training of health professionals, which will provide both enough health professionals and help foreign-language workers get to work and can support themselves. These are very interesting schemes, which should certainly be facilitated by a more flexible regulatory framework. The Christian People's Party also wants to take a closer look at Nav's meaning. It is an important institution, and they must be given the skills and resources needed to get people to work as quickly as possible, so that new citizens can make a good contribution to society. I also want to challenge the business community to look at these opportunities and open up the way for them to take in apprentices and trainees and otherwise have father schemes, so that people with skills can meet similar competences in Norway and get to work faster. I would also like to point out the responsibilities of municipalities and county councils to organise projects in which they can carry out important societal tasks. That's enough to get hold of. The Government has notified a communication on integration policies during the spring of the follow-up of the asylum agreement. The Christian People's Party expects the government to propose new and flexible ways of combining work and language training. We also hope the government will show the willingness to make it easier to get temporary work permits. Otherwise, there are clear orders in the asylum agreement. This work is urgent, and the Christian People's Party is looking forward to dealing with the integration message in Stortinget. As regards the settlement arrangement, the Christian People's Party wishes to maintain the contractually based Norwegian model. At the same time, we refer to the asylum agreement, where the government has committed itself to looking at new incentive schemes, so that municipalities can make people live faster. However, the situation today is such that several municipalities are ready to accept, but we are in doubt if the UDI is able to handle enough issues that result in a residence permit. The government must now ensure that the UDI prioritises well-thought-out asylum applications so that they do not become a clog in the settlement work that municipalities are able to carry out. Then I would say – a little boldly – that Karmøy Municipality has in many ways succeeded in part of the integration work. I've been invited there on Friday, to the Adult Education Center. They have a long experience, they see challenges, and they have the competence to provide optimal training. I look forward to getting tips from those who have the shoe on and who know where it presses. There might be a lot of good ideas to bring with you. The Christian People's Party will contribute to this and in a constructive way be involved. Otherwise, I support what was said by the representative Eirin Sund, that it is important to map the resource that these new peoples have. It's a human capital that we can't afford to miss, and that we have to manage wisely, for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e566	The representatives behind this proposal, Karin Andersen and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, point out in their explanatory statement that there is a need to spend both time and money more effectively when integrating refugees. That's an assessment we from the Center Party would like to get behind. The proposers refer to municipalities that have taken the lead in the development of new models, and it turns out that they are working. Røros and Gloppen have experiences that more people could benefit from. Any municipality wishing to do so should be able to set in motion similar schemes. Immigrants are trained there before they have completed language training. It is a special scheme designed to make it easy to combine, and at the same time, the business community in these municipalities is trained in the skills that are very intrusive. In the integration agreement, which the majority here in the United Kingdom have supported, and which will form the starting point for the integration communication announced in May, there are a number of actions under ‘Activity and work’ that are related to the proposals in this proposal for a representative. From the centre party we are impatient. We believe that the notified communication of integration must come as soon as possible, so that we have time to deal with it in the spring session, and so that the financial instruments that need to follow the measures can be dealt with in the context of the revised national budget. The Central Party introduced what we called an ‘integration billion’ in its 2016 alternative budget to meet the challenges of resettlement and effective integration in municipalities. Better and faster language training is one of the first measures to be taken. In its proposal, the Centre also increased budgetary resources for Job Opportunities and for a qualification programme for refugees. Unfortunately, it is not the case that the workplaces are waiting for newly settled refugees around the municipalities. It is clear that the initiative of the refugees themselves is required, but they must also be backed up by the reception and response apparatus in the municipalities, and the employers who give practical opportunities to immigrants must receive the necessary support. This is completely required if we are to succeed. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal put forward in the draft representative. We believe that the government needs to come back to Stortinget with measures to ensure that minority-speaking people are better able to combine language training and work. When the majority do not support the proposal here today, I expect that the communication of integration presented to the Storting will make proposals for similar measures and, in particular, the revised national budget, which will be discussed in the Storting, will have to ensure that the necessary funds are put in place to follow up these measures. We have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e583	These are many good examples, Røros and Gloppen, which the previous representative pointed to, but also many other places in the country. Good organisation for work in combination with language training is the key to good integration. Long-term passivity in reception is devastating for good integration. It's with refugees that with us others – if we're too long away from the labour market, it'll be harder to get back. That is why we need to step up efforts for faster integration into working and social life. We are therefore pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget agreed on a number of measures in this area before Christmas last year, and we expect the government to follow up on the announced integration message coming in our spring. The left supports the intention of the proposal that has been put forward, but we are waiting for what is proposed in the communication on integration. In the December integration agreement, there was a broad consensus that a need to take greater action in the field of language training and the introduction programme, as well as to ensure better organisation for work through the mapping of competences, the use of non-remunerated working practices, etc. There is a clear need for different courses in both language training and work organisation. It is therefore important that we have an overview of the competence of asylum seekers who are currently in reception. Many mean a lot, but we still know very little about it. Perhaps today there are doctors and nurses, for whom some municipalities have a screaming need, in reception? We don't know that per day. So it's important that we recognize that we can't have the same training course for everyone. Rather, we have to assume that each individual already has different competences. Furthermore, it is important to get an early overview of that competence and to start the process of obtaining recognition of training from abroad and to clarify what kind of additional training may be needed to enter the Norwegian labour market. Although the number of asylum seekers in Norway increased sharply last year, the situation is fully manageable, but it is required that one makes the right grips. If we do not get into integration, we can have long-standing challenges. And it's not going to come from the fact that it's different how municipalities can handle this, it's different from the size of the municipalities, and it's not least different from what kind of competence exists in the municipalities of the country. I'm not going to say that this is a hugely good argument for looking at larger municipalities, but it's definitely part of it in terms of looking at a broader competence, because this will be a challenge. If we do not succeed to a greater extent with a municipal reform, this will be one of the challenges we face in the future – if we do nothing about today's municipal structure. It is therefore important that we get started and that refugees start the process of integration. If they succeed, so do we.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e598	People are the most important resource a country can have, much more important than oil. Now many people with bad experiences, but also great resources, come to Norway. Therefore, SV has been busy looking at what the municipalities that have done a very good job in this area have done. What they have done is that they have combined the needs of the municipality with the needs of the immigrants, and looked at how they can provide training that also gives you formal competence at the time of language training and intro-programming. To do so, they have had to apply for exemptions from various rules both here and there, but they have succeeded. It is probably more than me who saw the NRK programme from the Gloppen, where newly trained health professionals – the one who was interviewed – were from Eritrea and men, and more men were absolutely needed into the health profession around – had done this with brilliance. So the Nav leader in Sogn and Fjordane asks us to be so kind as to change these rules, so that more people can do this. Trondheim has done it, Røros has started now, I know that Florø has also started, so there are many people who are doing this. This is not something SV has found. This is what the municipalities that are doing integration work have found, and the state agencies that are going to be part of this have asked us to be so kind as to change the rules – because it works. Of course, this is about newly arrived refugees, but it can also be a training course that can be good for those who have been here and who have not yet come to work. For a little bit of encouragement: whoever wants to, can go into the SSB and look at some of the latest stuff that's there. They can report that in 2014 was 90 pst. of the minor Afghans who came to Norway a few years ago, in work or under education. It's a completely different picture than what's being created in the debate. It's about being able to combine a hope for a better life and a desire to contribute, because it has those who come. They have a great desire to contribute, but then we have to have arrangements that fit them. Today, it is often the case that a language training course is needed before qualifying training can be started, whereas these trials show that you learn better Norwegian by combining it with such a race as they do. is on Røros now. There they write that in four years the students are to complete secondary education with the same professional and hourly distribution as ordinary students. The usual course of education is two years at school and two years as an apprentice, but these students thus receive the exchange model – two days of education, three days in practice in the community health service. It has also called for cooperation with two municipalities, the business community, the health services and other enterprises. So yes, you might have to merge municipalities here, but it's about being able to work together on a common task, and removing the rules that make it impossible to do when it's successful. Many proposals are needed in the field of integration. SV has promoted Representative Proposals 29 S for 2015-2016, which are also under consideration, with 51 proposals. In addition to that, we have voted in favour of all of the majority's proposals except one, and it is making family reunification more difficult, because it is a miserable integration measure. So there's a lot of things that have to be done here, but this is a little bit of a change, and from the Department of Knowledge there's come a proposition about some changes that go in the same direction, and a little bit into the same, but that doesn't go far enough in my view. I'm a little surprised that this is being made a matter that has to be postponed for a very long time, when the experiments in practice show such good results. I hope the Council of State can help this to get a little further, because if it is that way that all small and large changes have to wait for a big big big message, which then has to wait for difficult investigations into legislation and legislation, this is going far too small. We lose too much time, it costs too much money, and fewer will succeed. It's like a lot of people have said: it's longer you get passive and maybe you have to go through education, raising skills or other types of things that don't work, the less you're going to do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e615	The Communication ‘From Exclusion to a New Chance — Coordinated efforts for adult learning’ was submitted on 19 February this year. I believe that this communication is well on the way to meeting the wish of the proposers for increased opportunities for formal education for more immigrants. The target group for the communication of alienation and adult learning is adults with low education or skills. The aim is for a more comprehensive policy to help more people gain the skills that enable them to get into stable work. We know that many have challenges across sectoral lines, and the government has therefore stressed the need to adapt services in the education, labour and integration sectors to individual, real needs for skills, to be flexible and to adapt to the lives of adults. The Government proposes to focus the main effort on improving training for adults with poor basic skills, better opportunities for higher education and better quality in the specific provision of adult immigrants. In the field of integration, the government has proposed through this Communication the improvement of both the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. In a situation characterised by a higher number of participants, a high level of skills requirements in the labour market and increased unemployment, schemes must be effective, of high quality and provide participants with better opportunities to acquire the skills requested in the labour market. We have therefore launched measures to provide more regular training as part of the schemes and to increase the employment correction of the introduction programme. Attempts to combine training under the Training Act and the Introduction Act, respectively, and a review of these legislations shall contribute to better coordination between the sectors. Through the forthcoming communication to the European Council on integration policy, we will develop the mechanisms further, but focus on the situation with a higher number of asylum seekers and refugees. Further training, in particular vocational and vocational training, increases opportunities for stable footholds in the labour market. The need for skills is projected to increase the demand for people with vocational training. In the communication on alienation and adult learning, the government therefore proposes several things to help more adults participate in secondary education. The government, in cooperation with the social partners, will establish an alternative route to professional letters for unskilled workers. Furthermore, the government will launch trials on modular training for adults in selected VET programmes. Such training in smaller units shall make it more affordable for more people to participate in training. It will also make it easier to combine education and training with work, as requested in the proposal. Many jobseekers will need secondary education in order to have a stable link with the labour market. The government wants to give priority to vocational training within the Nav training activities. Through the introduction of a two-year training course, several adults who fall outside the scope of today's legislation will be able to receive vocational training. This is a training offer that will make it easier for Nav to cooperate with the county municipality on a longer training course. Flexible schemes that allow adults to take training in the form of modules could also make it easier for Nav to use the offer of advanced training as a job-seeker measure. The communication on alienation and adult learning further indicates that a better course offer is to be developed in Norwegian training for immigrants who need it and who do not have the right to do so under the Introduction Act. The provision of training in basic skills shall also be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e640	I think it is good that the Council of State agrees that we must use both time and money effectively in the training and qualification of the refugees who come to the country and are allowed to stay here. I also find it reassuring that the Council of State recognises the need to introduce flexibility into the legislation. But my question is actually a follow-up to the very good speech by the representative Karin Andersen, who points out how little is really going to be, and who will be of great importance. The question then is: will the Council listen to those who are working on this, pointing out that the legislation makes it difficult to adapt training provision and that there is a need for more flexible regulation? Then you will be able to expand the offer, and you can't do it the way it is today. Will the Council of State listen and do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e647	I think it's very important to be around and meet those who actually work with integration into everyday life, and get input from them, because they see how the shoe prints. I have traveled so far in several municipalities and got very good input into it. What I see is that the most important thing is that a thing is to see the individual and create a frame around him and a set-up that is in line with what each individual wants, and it's the municipalities that really succeed. So where the code stands in the way, we have to do something about it. There is no objective for this government to have a rigid regulatory framework to put an end to effective integration – on the contrary. So these are the things we'll look at in the integration message and, to the extent that we work on a daily basis, to see how we can simplify the whole system. We're really taking that with us, and we're going to work to simplify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e654	The Council of State refers to the establishment by Nav of a two-year vocational training measure aimed at job seekers with low qualifications. It is certainly a good measure, but the question is whether it is organised in such a way that it is more possible to combine language training with labour-oriented measures. That is what is called for in this proposal for a representative. Does the State Council consider that the measures planned to be implemented by Nav adequately address the proposal that minority language pupils be given the opportunity to combine language training with labour-oriented measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e661	That's what we want to make right now, that the Nav system is also going to be more flexible about both having language training and being able to combine it with work training. That's the same thing that I think is very important in the introduction system now. There is great freedom for municipalities to develop offers within the introduction system, but I think I agree with those who say that in many municipalities the introduction system consists primarily of you sitting in a classroom and working with language training. So I think that one of the most important things we have to do is to get a combination of this, both through the introduction system and through the Nav system to help you get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e666	The Council of State refers to Report. Article 16 for 2015-2016 and the various proposals that come there. That's very good, and we've said that we very much agree with that. The point is that there's a little bit of urgency, and a big message isn't a legislative change. Actually, rule changes are needed to get this done. How quickly can the government bring this? Time goes by, and you work – to put it that way – slowly, and much slower with the integration measures than with the tightening-up proposals, and it is the integration proposals that are going to make it possible for more of those who are actually going to stay in Norway. The second question I have is about the introduction system. It is important, as the Council of State says, to adapt it individually, and then it is also important that the introduction system has openings to extend it beyond two years, because by means of a little longer training, as most of us have needed to get proper training, so that you can get a job, you can succeed with more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e673	That's the way the introduction system is also now that you can use more than two years if necessary, there's an opening for it in the law. But we also see that it is necessary to go through the law to see how we can further make it more flexible for municipalities, and to show even more clearly the possibilities that lie there. With regard to the priorities here, there was a large majority who agreed before Christmas that we had to give priority to tightening up because there was a rather precarious situation with a very large influx to Norway. That is why we have prioritised it, but we have also prioritised work on an integration message. It's a huge effort to write a big message, which we're now doing – what I'm calling – expressive speed, and which will be a very important document that the Storting will deal with when it comes in May. So we work here along more tracks because we want to succeed in getting better integration than what we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e680	These refugees who stay in our country do not come from a vacuum, they come from a society where they have contributed in terms of agriculture, crafts, industry, trade, academia, health and social fields, and they have great experience, they have varied experience, although it is a different culture. In the Christian People's Party, we have a case and a proposal for an introduction job. Is it possible to connect or reward business in such a way that those with competence in an area can be connected to an enterprise where you have equivalent or related skills, and thus new ideas can arise, we get more hands on work, language training will go faster, etc.? So the concrete question: the reward scheme for such a father scheme, does the minister think that is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e687	There are many good ideas we need to assess towards the presentation of the integration message, and there we need to address a number of proposals, and this is one input into that discussion. I fully agree that no one comes from a vacuum, but it's also that many come from societies that are very different from the Norwegian one. To come from e.g. Afghanistan into Norwegian society is a long journey, not only in a physical sense, but also in the way our society is built up. I fully agree that using experience is important, and that is why I am glad that during the year we now have such a kind of competence mapping, where people themselves through their smartphone or through their PC get to go through what kind of experience they already have. I was in Steinkjer, and there they had an example of it. There was a person – I think he was from Afghanistan – who had been a car mechanic there, with quite different cars, equipment and everything like that, but it was a very good platform to get into a car shop and get training and language training there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e694	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e710	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e717	The representatives of Karin Andersen, Ingunn Gjerstad, Iselin Nybø and Sveinung Rotevatn have proposed amendments to the Citizenship Act to allow for the possibility of acquiring dual citizenship. The justification refers to the fact that for many with strong links to several countries it is difficult to withdraw their original citizenship when applying for citizenship in Norway. Reference is made to the fact that in many countries — about half worldwide — dual citizenship is open. The issue of the right to dual citizenship has been dealt with in the past by the Grand Duchy. The majority of the national committee, which presented its position in a public inquiry in 2000, argued that dual citizenship would be possible. However, the size was determined by the treatment of Ot.prp. No 41 for 2005 to maintain the principle of one citizenship. The majority then justified their view that dual citizenship could create problems in terms of providing diplomatic protection that Norwegian citizens are entitled to. The majority also considered it to be fundamentally unfortunate to have the rights and obligations of citizenship in more than one country. The Committee has obtained from the Council of State the assessment of the draft representative. Councillor Horne says she considers it important that the award of citizenship should be high and that she considers that the grounds for rejecting dual citizenship in the 2005 issue are still valid. In addition, the Council of State refers to the provisions of the Citizenship Act which provide for derogations from the requirement to waive previous citizenship if it is considered to be legally or practically impossible, or for other reasons appears unreasonable. In addition, the Council of State points out that the proposals made by representatives to alleviate the language requirements of Danish and Swedish nationals applying for Norwegian citizenship have already been taken into account in the existing provisions. It states that Nordic citizens who understand the Norwegian or Sami language are not covered by the language requirements of the Citizenship Act. Our neighbouring countries Denmark, Sweden and Finland have introduced provisions opening up dual citizenship. In the open consultation of the Committee, those who had asked to meet the Committee gave broad support to the proposal for dual citizenship. Among other things, reference to the fact that the Norwegian Citizenship Act poses the greatest challenges for persons with a Norwegian background who are long-term abroad because of work or family establishment. Foreigners applying for Norwegian citizenship are often given dual citizenship because they cannot be separated from their original citizenship. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre, propose a decision asking the Government to consider how the general rule of one citizenship is put into practice in a more globalised world, among other things. based on job opportunities, safety assessments and crime prevention. We ask the government to consider whether changes in other laws can remedy the situation of those who today experience disadvantages in the principle of one citizenship, and we ask for an assessment of the consequences of an opening for double citizenship for obligations and rights in Norway. The majority’s proposal acknowledges that support for the principle of one citizenship should be assessed against other considerations, such as cross-border family start-ups, children’s rights in such situations and a more globalised labour market, in the light of the considerations taken up by the Stortinget in 2005. I think we should be able to get a broad decision-making base to address as important a fundamental issue as citizens' rights in Norway are. Therefore, I hope the Stortinget joins the majority's proposed resolution I of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Center Party. The minority is promoting the proposals contained in the draft representative, and I expect them to explain their own views. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on this matter for its cooperation. We have a job behind us where I think we have got a lot of good input, and that they have been taken into account in what eventually became our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e738	Thank you for a good and tidy statement from the rapporteur-general. There is no doubt that this has been a matter that has been committed. I believe that the e-mail addresses of all the wholesale representatives have been used a number of times, and there have been meetings with good representatives of the case, who have wanted us to open up the possibility of dual citizenship. It was also very clear from those who met in the hearing on this matter that they wanted a system of double citizenship also in Norway, thought it would make sense in many ways, and showed, among other things, that. to our neighbouring country, which has introduced the scheme. Of course, there have been some counter-conceptions about the proposal, and that is why – as the rapporteur said in some way – we have discussed it, including in the Labour Party, that it would be wise to have an investigation on this, and also whether there may be other legislative changes that can address the challenges of not having dual citizenship. The majority proposal for Decision I also specifies that the investigation must include an assessment of the consequences of the possible opening up of dual citizenship and of what it means for individual rights and obligations in Norway. I understand that those who have spent a lot of time, a lot of energy and engaged heavily in this matter are very impatient and want quick answers. Now at least we get a little bit on the road, and then the urge is that they continue their good engagement in the matter, and then we all hope that we can get a final clarification on this in a not too distant future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e749	I would also like to begin by thanking the case-speaker, Heidi Greni, for a good report on the matter, and for letting her through in the committee in a clean and good way. This question was, of course – which was also discussed by the case-speaker – thoroughly re-evaluated in 2005 both with a NOU and with a magnificence which at the time even meant that the Stortinget disagreed with the selection and assumed that one should not allow dual citizenship, i.e. the policy that is in force today, and which is also the line that the Progress Party stood for at that time, and now stands for. There are quite a few challenges about citizenship. First, I would like to say that citizenship is an important matter, and Norwegian citizenship is to hang high. What we see around today's legislation, although one has the clear rule that dual citizenship is not allowed, is that approx. However, half of the target group may retain another citizenship in addition to Norwegian citizenship. The debate in the last year has also shown us a good deal of new issues. It also showed the Committee’s hearing, where we received many recordings and announcements showing the challenges facing individual groups with today’s legislation. For example, it is not possible to take from a citizen the Norwegian citizenship if the citizen does not also have another citizenship. There is a problem that has been more updated in the context of the debate on Norwegian forward-looking warriors carrying out terrorist acts for example. The Islamic State. At the same time, there are a number of fundamental arguments that speak against the granting of dual citizenship, which the vast majority of people in the audience expressed their desire. The most important thing is that citizenship gives important rights and obligations, and it is fundamentally unfortunate if the individual has these obligations and rights in more than one country; in particular, the right to participate in national policies should mean that it is clear where primary political loyalty lies. The same also applies to military services, where a citizen can be required to fight in the military forces of two different countries at the same time. Double citizenship can also create problems with regard to the diplomatic protection required by Norwegian citizens. In particular, problems may arise if the citizen can meet in his second home country if one has two citizenships. There is a number of conflicting and cross-cutting principles in this debate. I am registering from the setting that it is likely that a decision will be taken to ask for an evaluation of this theme. Even if the Progress Party does not support the desire to ask the government to do so now, we will of course wait for the result of that arrangement and consider further processing when it is in progress. Anyway, I'm glad that very many people are expressing that these are complicated and important questions, as well as what must be the subject of a thorough process, where one gets to work out all the sides. So I'm very happy that a adding up to such a race, because these are complicated questions that we'll come back to. If you do, we will of course evaluate it carefully on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e766	The question we have up to today's debate creates a great deal of commitment among many, and I am sure that most of us representatives have received a number of enquiries from people who are concerned that Norway now has to introduce dual citizenship as a fundamental principle. The Christian People's Party initially has the same position and the same assessment as a broad majority in the United Kingdom had the last case to be dealt with in 2005, i.e. we do not support it. It concerns the restrictions which dual citizenship provides for the possibility of providing diplomatic assistance, in particular in matters relating to child abduction and forced marriage. But we also regard it as fundamentally unfortunate that one can have the rights and obligations of citizenship in more than one country. At the same time, I would like to stress that the thorough and factual arguments that have now been put forward by the dual citizenship champions and the commitment shown by those affected by this legislation have made an impression. It is not difficult to imagine the unfortunate fact that children in the same family can have different rights to citizenship depending on the country in which they were born. We also see the practical and emotional problems that the requirement for one citizenship can give to the individual. In addition, we see developments in the world, in Europe and not least in the Nordic countries on this issue, speak for it to deserve a new assessment – not least the fact that Norway is today the only country in the Nordic region that has not introduced dual citizenship, after Denmark did it last year. The Christian People's Party has therefore arrived and is pleased that the majority is in favour of a new and thorough assessment of the issue, so that the Stortinget can have a new opportunity to look at this matter in the near future. It implies that the Christian People's Party will reconsider the matter when it comes back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e779	The Committee held a hearing on this subject in Stortinget on 19 January 2016, which showed broad support for the proposal for dual citizenship. The main rationale, which has been shared by many, was that this is a practice in the other Nordic countries and most Western countries. In addition, it was emphasised that the Norwegian Civil Code presents challenges for people with a Norwegian background who are staying for a long time abroad because of work or family start-ups. A large proportion of non-residents applying for Norwegian citizenship are exempted because they are not disbanded from their original citizenship. It is now more than ten years since the Great Britain took a position on the question of dual citizenship, and internationalisation in society has accelerated since then. In this context, it is noted that since then, countries such as Belgium, Germany and Denmark have opened up dual citizenship and that Norway is now the only country in the Nordic region that does not allow it. The majority in the UK voted against the proposal last time – against the clear recommendation of the Citizenship Committee. The proposal to open up the possibility of acquiring dual citizenship was fully endorsed in the consultation round. I refer in particular to a statement by the Association of Lawyers that most countries that are naturally comparable have double citizenship, and that today's system is thus a strange phenomenon. Furthermore, the Association of Lawyers believes that the proposal will correct a bias in our system and better facilitate people linked to two countries. The Association of Lawyers also points out that today’s legislation means that children with parents with different citizenship are effectively deprived of the possibility of dual citizenship, contrary to the legal requirement, and that many families living in Norway refrain from applying for Norwegian citizenship and that this hampers integration. I would also like to refer to a hearing statement by the American Women’s Club of Oslo, which highlights that there are not insignificant costs associated with saying away from American citizenship, and that one will never have the opportunity to re-establish his citizenship at a later date. An opportunity for dual citizenship will release resources from the foreign authorities, which are currently using considerable resources to deal with applications and exercise control over compliance with the law. A broad majority of the so-called national committee was in favour of dual citizenship as a fundamental principle. A minority opposed that proposal. The majority of the committee stressed that a general acceptance of dual citizenship may be combined with strict conditions for obtaining Norwegian citizenship. There is therefore no contradiction between being in favour of dual citizenship and supporting stricter rules for Norwegian citizenship. In this respect, I would like to point out that both Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Finland have introduced dual citizenship with a broad political majority of bourgeois and social democratic parties. Internationalisation is a strength for Norway, and it must be easier for the Nordics to travel into the world and come back as full Norwegian citizens. Many Nordics live abroad for periods, education and work, and sometimes establish families abroad. However, the prohibition of double citizenship prevents mobility and stands in the way of a valuable transfer of competences and knowledge between the Nordics and the Norwegian community. Of course, being a citizen gives both rights and obligations, and it promotes integration into society by making a greater contribution and commitment to the country in which you live. For some it is natural to have a strong connection with two countries, and the Nordmanns-Verbundet/Norwegians Worldwide believes that the law today appears to be arbitrary and unfair with its many exceptions, where Norway’s own citizens seem to get worse. It's a paradox, and I think it's good that the Right Party and the Working Party in many ways might be a little run-down on this question. But it's a little encouraging to hear the most conservative parties in this room, the Progress Party and the Center Party, which are pre-intentional no matter what comes. I think this is the wrong time to put down border posts, but it is clear that at least two of the lots here in the hall want to put down border posts anyway. That is why I am pleased that Stortinget now wants to look at this again. The left will vote primarily for the proposals No. 1-3, from the Left and the Left Party, which has been encouraged by this, but I at the same time warn that the Left subsidiary will vote in favour of the proposal for Decision I by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e809	The President then perceives that the representative took up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e812	The state citizenship law in Norway is apparent in the light of the time we live in. We live at an international age, where the North travels and the migration in the world is strong. I fear that it is because the migration in the world today is strong, that you choose to be conservative in this area, sail if it's hard to see what it is you should win at it. As it is today, there are some countries in the world that do not separate their inhabitants from their original citizenship, anyway. One of the arguments I have heard is related to child sharing and child abduction matters. I would like to remind you that one of the countries in which Norway has had such cases, for example. Morocco, never solves its citizens from their citizenship, so you won't be able to solve it that way. There may be some problems with this, but it turns out, where you have Norwegian citizens, that there are other types of legal problems associated with the fact that a country’s authorities – police, etc. – enter that country in order to settle, if the national authorities do not want to. So I think that argument is being abused, because this does not give the security of the individuals you say you want to keep, by being restrictive with double citizenship. The second argument, which I hear repeatedly here too, is linked, for example, to: military service, but Norway has concluded agreements with other countries, so these matters are regulated. I can see that you're using some substantial arguments. It's a bit sad to say that, but I heard the representative Njåstad was up here and said something that clearly, in the view of the Progress Party, could be an argument to allow double citizenship. It was to be able to exclude people who are Norwegian citizens, their citizenship, if you wanted to expel them, for example. because of criminal acts. It's sad if that's why we get this done, because there's a lot of good reasons to do it. I would like to say that I have rarely attended a hearing in Stortinget where the hearing bodies have been so unanimous in the proposal. I want to tell you the story of the Norwegian doctor, the specialist who was raised and educated in Norway. He had done a professional career in the United States and wanted an American citizenship, because it was necessary for the professional career there, and it was good. But he had to renounce his Norwegian citizenship in order to be allowed to do this. Then the paradox is that if an equivalent Swedish, Danish, Finnish or Icelandic doctor does the same, the Icelandic, Danish, Swedish or Finnish doctor can come to Norway and work, but he who has been Norwegian and has had to resign from his Norwegian citizenship and is now American. He cannot come to Norway and work if he does not obtain a specialist permit in Norway. This shows how out of date this legislation is, when citizens from our neighbouring country can come to Norway, while some who have been Norwegian cannot come back to Norway to work in Norway, with their education in Norway and where they are born. So the law now appears to be arbitrary and unfair, because there are many exceptions, and because all of our neighbouring countries have changed this, so that their citizens can benefit from the common Nordic labour market in a way that Norwegian citizens cannot, if they travel abroad and get a citizenship there. I also think it is important to establish that it is possible to be loyal and happy in two countries. Yes, I think it's actually a good thing in the world if more people were, because it seems to me that many more people would get an understanding of the situation and needs of other countries, and that through such an opening we would also make everyday life easier, especially for families who have children with different citizenships, and who do not have the opportunity to have both citizenships the same for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e827	Citizenship connects legal links between countries and individuals and confirms a relationship with the country. It is an important symbol of the loyalty of the Norwegian community and its underlying principles. The Government is committed to a high level of Norwegian citizenship. From 1 July of this year, Norwegian knowledge and social skills will be required and passed in order to acquire Norwegian citizenship. We have also announced that we will consider proposing to raise the requirement to live in order to have citizenship. I note that there is no majority in the proposal for a representative to submit a proposal to amend the principle of one nationality under the Act of Citizenship. At the same time, there is a majority in order to oblige the government to examine how the general rule of one citizenship turns out in practice. It's been less than ten years since our citizenship law came into force. In NOW 2000:32, which underlies the law, there was an important question of whether the principle of one citizenship should be passed on from the old to the new law, or whether it should be amended. A majority of the Committee of National Laws agreed that dual citizenship would be possible in Norway, but the Bondevik II Government concluded that the Act was to be based on a principle of one citizenship, and this proposal was adopted in the Grand Duchy. Ten years ago too, many felt connected with several countries, and several countries allowed dual citizenship. As the majority of the Committee itself points out, Sweden introduced dual citizenship in 2001, while Finland and Iceland introduced dual citizenship in 2003. The proposers point out that, in many cases, it is difficult to withdraw from their previous citizenship when applying for Norwegian citizenship. It is worth noting that many retain their original citizenship when applying for Norwegian citizenship. Derogations from the general rule of one nationality may be made if, in the opinion of the Court of Justice or of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, it is considered that it is legally or impracticable, or for other reasons that it appears unreasonable. It has also been stated that it is arbitrary and unfair that some are granted exemptions and some have to comply with the general rule. This situation was also foreseen by the introduction of new citizenship law in 2006, but I see that this could lead to the experience of discrimination. One aspect of the case is the effect that dual citizenship can have on the safety situation in Norway. Such a change may facilitate cross-border crime, including: because persons can operate with different passports. When Stortinget adopted the new National Act ten years ago, it was crucial that, when applying for Norwegian citizenship, it should be clear where primary loyalty lies. This is a principle that should also be important in the future. The Government will, of course, follow up a decision to rule on one nationality.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e846	The left is pleased that the majority in the committee sees that there is a need for a review and that the government will follow it up. When times change, the Storting should also be able to change. We should have preferred that the order to the government was even clearer than that plural today, but we'll have to count it as half a say. Although there is always a counter-argument to one thing, the counter-arguments in this matter, after the Left's view, are very thin. The Civic Court replied to these objections already fifteen years ago, and the case has not been exactly subdued since then, rather the opposite. Just because, after all, we have a good deal of people with dual citizenship in Norway, who fill the narrow terms of the law, we also have practical solutions to the problems that may arise, for example, when we're trying to relieve the obligation to protect. So my question to the Council of State is this: what is it and the government sees that a needy answer to now, which the Old Civil Code Committee has not already responded to?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e855	It's probably not the government that sees that we need an answer to something, but it's the Storting that asks us to answer a number of questions. I have to say that the enquiry that comes from the Storting to investigate is good, because it points out several aspects of looking at citizenship, both in terms of employment opportunities and in terms of security and crime, which I think is actually important that we look at. We are also asked to see if there are other ways to do this than to change the citizenship law. So we're going to follow what the Storting wants, and come back to it. Then I'm sure we'll get a real discussion about these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e860	That's good to right. It was said by many representatives in the room now that this is so complicated. Clearly, it is no more complicated than the fact that most countries in Europe are doing quite well, including all our neighbouring countries. Another argument, which has not been so much advanced so far, but which I think should be raised, not least when the Minister for Integration is here, is about good integration. We know, of course, that it is the most common objection people have to seek for Norwegian citizenship, even if they would like to become Norwegian citizens. So I hope that the Council of State sees that becoming a Norwegian citizen without having to say anything about its old citizenship can strengthen integration. I would also like to add that the Council of State and other repeated occasions have drawn this up with loyalty. Then my question to the Council of State, which I know is happy in a country like the United States, is it not possible to have loyalty both to the United States and to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e871	It is certainly possible to have loyalty to several countries, but what this will ultimately boil down to is how a person emphasises different arguments in this case. I fully agree that others do, and they are because the other countries around us, to which reference is made, have made other assessments of which elements you want to focus. As I was in my post, both Sweden and one of the other Nordic countries were out with this before we dealt with this matter in Norway, between 2001 and 2005. As far as integration is concerned, I have a expectation that those who come to Norway and live here will make a real effort to integrate, even if they do not get Norwegian citizenship in the first place. It takes years before you can qualify to get it, and in that period, of course, I expect them to stand on as just that to integrate, and that the motivation is present, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e880	There'll be a lot of vision around this proposal. When we have a NOU on the ground, and have investigated at least the formal aspects of it, this matter should be clear. The Council of State mentioned in its introduction that there could be problems with international crime when operating with two passports. There is now an international effort to put in place systems of biometrics, which will make this possible in databases, of course, if you use such a type of ID in connection with crime. Does the Council not agree that a biometric passport system would solve this problem, so that the identification of this person would not become a major problem — whether you have dual citizenship or have one?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e887	Well, it's probably an experience you've gained over time in terms of crime and those who want to commit crime, that they always find their way around the systems that exist at all times. But I fully agree with Andersen's representative that biometric passports will of course improve that situation very much. That'll give us a better overview. The representative says that the formal sides here are solved. It is the Stortinget who is now asking us to examine some aspects of these proposals. Of course, the government will – and come back to this case on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e894	The follow-up question to it is: When does the government see that it can bring this investigation? Because now it's like countries around us have this system, so we're about to become – to say it this way – a little special in the Nordics and in Europe when it comes to having this system. It shouldn't have to take a very long time when you have a NOU that you can assume, where all the arguments for and against have been tried. How long does the government think the government needs to get back to Stortinget with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e899	Now there is relatively high labour pressure in the department, both for those who work with the tightening up, and for those who work with integration. And there will be enough people from both of these departments who have to work on this matter. Therefore, it may take some time to come back, because we are now working on a bomb both by providing an integration message and by proposing tightening up. But we're going to make a timetable, so we can report back more details about when we can get back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e904	I fully agree with the Council of State that citizenship should hang high and be regarded as an important symbol of belonging and loyalty to Norwegian society. At the same time, we know that today's system of one citizenship leads to very many practical challenges for individuals – many challenges I hadn't thought about at all before we had the hearing in the committee. In the comments on the matter, it is among other things. referred to young people with parents from different countries and to persons who, because of work, ‘live their lives in several countries’. It seems that, to a large extent, those with Norwegian family backgrounds are facing challenges. My impression is that the government's reason is that immigrants in Norway have to choose between Norwegian citizenship and original citizenship. Does the Council share the Committee's view that the situation is more complex and that the need for a review is primarily justified by the situation of people who have a strong connection with Norway but cannot meet the formal requirements of Norwegian citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e911	I think it's always so that when you have these kinds of rules, it'll go beyond some, and it'll be unfortunate aspects of this kind of practice. That's why I think it's okay to investigate different aspects of it, both in the case of ethnic Norwegians who are married to non-residents and who experience challenges related to this, and in the case of those who choose to come to Norway, get protection here and get citizenship later, and the challenges they have with this. So I think there are several pages here that it might be easy to figure out and get a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e918	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e924	I am within my third year as a major representative and have so far delivered 12 representatives in addition to a number of larger and smaller proposals. No matter what, I have received so much feedback as just this case, double citizenship. The question of dual citizenship is about the everyday life of many, many thousands of people, not least of those who live abroad – norwegians who cannot understand the logic that their Swedish, Danish and Finnish friends can take an American citizenship without losing their old age, while they themselves are allowed to enter the Norwegian passport if they want to become citizens of another country, norms who do not understand the logic that their own children will have different rights and different citizenships, depending on when and where they are born, norms who do not understand that after a clear recommendation from a public selection and after all our neighbouring countries have changed their practices, Norway will still be one of the very few countries in Europe who are bound by the principle of not being able to have more than one citizenship. We're living in a world that's getting smaller and smaller. Nordics travel, foreigners travel here – to study, to work, to find love and to seek happiness. This is an expression that we're living in a freer, more liberal value than ever before, and there's every reason to enjoy. At the same time, this means that more and more people are getting a clear connection with more than one country — family members in several countries, living in several countries. For them, it appears as formalistic, unnecessary and unnecessarily complicated that it should not be possible to acquire more than one citizenship if one is Norwegian. Many people live their lives simply in several countries. At least they won't write off the right to return to their homeland if they ever want to. The fact that today’s legislation appears untimely was also illustrated by the broad, unanimous support of the proposal in the hearing. We have an ongoing debate on Norwegian immigration policy, where there are different views on the stringency. It is an entirely honest matter, but that discussion must not confuse the discussion of dual citizenship. For example, it is entirely possible to have a general acceptance for double citizenship, but at the same time have strict conditions for obtaining a Norwegian citizenship. I don't really understand that this is an issue that should be the subject of particular party political polemics. In our neighbouring countries, double citizenship has been established in the last few years with broad pluralities across the political centreline. No, today's Norwegian system is becoming an increasingly strange phenomenon. It creates difficulties for many people, so I hope that the majority of people today will vote to give a clear order to the government, at least the vote for the plural setting, and that the government will come back to the Storting quickly and effectively with proposals that can ensure that we finally get a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e941	This debate raised various objections to dual citizenship. It is relevant in itself and in this way good objections that have emerged, but I still want to stress that the many e-mails and phone calls I have received in connection with this matter, do not come from international criminals, from foreign fighters, from those who are in prison and need diplomatic help, or from people who are doubtful that they are getting double military duty. The telephones and e-mails I have received come from very common people who feel a connection to two countries or who have kids, which they find difficult not to get double citizenship. It's all about a problem that ordinary people experience in their lives, and that we have the opportunity to solve. So it's like "just" ten years since we had that discussion last, but it's actually ten years since we had this discussion last, and it happens a little over ten years, not least in a society that's becoming more and more international, more and more globalized. In the education sector, our students are going abroad to study, and we'd rather have them far away. We want them to go to the United States, we want them to go to the East. My committee has been in South Africa to look at the cooperation we have there. So it's a wish that the nords go out, and it does the nords. In fact, almost half of Norwegian students studying medicine study outside Norway. And it is clear that this has consequences – when you live in a country over time, when you meet other people who are not Norwegians. It is clear that people fall in love, that they want to live elsewhere – they live there for a long time, they start working there, they get a connection to another country. This is the problem that many people experience in their lives, and that we have an opportunity today to do something about. It is – unfortunately, I would say – not going to be a majority for the Left and SV proposals, but I am nevertheless pleased that the majority in the Committee sees these issues and wants to address them, because this is something that is most relevant, which is relevant. And I say like Sveinung Rotevatn, that when you can't win the case completely, you get to take the winnings you get. And I think this is an important step on the way to double citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e950	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e964	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e971	The representative proposal by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Olug V. Bollestad and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad addresses important and difficult questions. The desire to improve the care situation for single minor asylum seekers seems to me to have broad support in Stortinget. When the majority of the committee at this stage agrees that the proposals should be annexed to the protocol, that does not mean that we believe that the questions should be raised. The representative proposal was promoted before two broad agreements were concluded here at Stortinget. On 19 November the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left signed an agreement on measures to meet the refugee crisis and on 16 December the same parties signed the agreement on a joint commitment to good integration. The agreements have been adopted and forwarded to the Government for follow-up. In April, it was announced that the government would submit proposals for changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in the light of the asylum agreement concluded, and in May we were informed that the Communication of Integration is being presented. The proposals that have been promoted in the proposal for a representative we are now considering belong to the consideration of these matters. However, I will be allowed to comment on the proposals put forward. There is a great deal of distance between the government's proposal to give all single minors a limited period of residence up to the age of 18 and then to have a new examination of the application after that, and the representatives' proposal to remove the current provisions of the foreign regulations which allow for a limited stay for children between the age of 16 and 18. Current provisions concern a limited number of children and young people for whom the UDI believes there may be doubts about age setting. The government's proposals go much further and are not part of the asylum agreement between the parties on the Stortinget. I have expressed strong scepticism for the government's proposal because I think it will inhibit integration measures and create an uncertainty for vulnerable children and young people who present great challenges to both them and society. The Committee noted that those who took part in the hearing also agreed that Section 8-8 of the Foreign Regulation, on the possibility of restricting the residence permit, should be removed. However, I would like to await an assessment of this until we get an overall case for Stortinget. The other proposals made in the draft representative form an important part of the consideration of the Communication of Integration. In the agreement we entered into, which we named a 'common promise for good integration', there is a separate chapter that discusses children on a fugitive basis, where eight points of action were promoted. They partly address the same issues as in the draft representative. The Central Party supports the intentions of all these proposals. As regards proposal No: 3, ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up independent supervision in the receptions of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers’, the Centre Party supports it, and we believe that this will be a natural work in the Communication on Integration. As regards proposal No: 4, where the government is asked to set up teams against trafficking in human beings, we believe it is independent of the agreement reached in the Stortinget, and the Center Party will support it. I would like to express on behalf of the Centre Party that we need to put in place, as soon as possible, measures and budgetary resources to ensure a better follow-up of lone minor asylum seekers. The large cuts in the reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures for this group have weakened the ability and willingness of municipalities to settle minor asylum seekers. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has acknowledged the problem, but so far has not done anything about it. The centre party followed up the request from the municipalities and KS to return to 100 pst. reimbursement in the budget for 2016, but unfortunately it was not supported by the Storting. I pointed out that the integration message was notified to May. There will also be revised national budgets. The improvement of the single minor reimbursement scheme also applies for 2016, i.e. it should be promoted in the revised national budget – we do not have time to discuss the issue in the integration message and then wait for follow-up until next year’s budget. Finally, I would like to thank the proposers for putting important questions on the agenda and their situation, and I would also like to thank the Committee for their good cooperation in dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1002	As it says in the case, and as it was very well and thoroughly explained by the case rapporteur, these proposals were submitted before the asylum agreement at Stortinget was a fact. The Labour Party notes that in the hearing there was very strong support for the proposals contained in this proposal for a representative, and we are only allowed to take this into account in the further consideration of the asylum agreement that is coming. Then I also notice that the claim from the government that children are being sent away from their family and to Norway to finance their family in the country of origin was also strongly addressed in the hearing, where it was thought that there was no basis for such a claim. In the draft budget for 2016, the Labour Party had a number of proposals. We proposed to strengthen the initial training of lone minor asylum seekers, we proposed increasing the integration grant for municipalities, we suggested that the proportion of child protection measures for single minor asylum seekers should not be more than 10 p.p., and that there should be the possibility of having children's playgrounds in reception. And if we also include that we proposed 48 million. This would, overall, give municipalities, the reception apparatus, a better opportunity than they have today to provide a good follow-up. Following up and giving the municipalities, receptions, proper employment opportunities will be positive both in the long term and in the short term, both for the individual asylum seeker and, of course, for society as a whole. So to the proposal: I just want to inform you that when we come to the vote, the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 3 and proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1015	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good and thorough presentation of the case. As the rapporteur also mentioned, on 19 November 2015 an asylum agreement was concluded here at this house, where it included. read: ‘The government asks the government to pay special attention to unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in the reception of asylum. The government is asked to provide a wide range of high-skilled housing services, including the assessment of different housing schemes, such as foster home schemes, SOS Children’s Cities and the use of open-end high schools.’ It is clear that the Stortinget has given clear signals that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers should be followed up in particular, and I believe that this government is doing so. One of the most important things we can do to prevent suffering among minor asylum seekers is to help them where they are. Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group in need of care and security. Single minors travelling to Europe through networks of traffickers are at risk, among other things. to be arrested, they are at risk of drowning, kidnapping and assault, according to several UN reports. A report was recently published asking questions about what makes young people go on such a trip and it shows that the decision to send young people to Europe is usually taken by their parents. There is something serious wrong with a system that allows parents to send kids out on a lonely and dangerous journey through several countries and parts of the world. Kids should be with their family, not under the mercy of human traffickers. The Progress Party therefore believes that the whole asylum system should be changed. Conventions that are not adapted to today's population migration must be renegotiated or cancelled, while increasing aid drastically in the neighbourhoods. Only when the UN quota refugee scheme becomes the only way to stay in Europe will parents no longer have an incentive to put their children at a serious risk on a journey to Europe. It is well known that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers often experience family pressure to return money. We can't have a system that allows families to send their kids alone through half the world, where the goal might be to get money for their parents in their home country. It's immoral, and it's not for the benefit of the children. The Progress Party has long stood on the part of young people in this matter, pointing out that today's asylum system has a totally unfair outcome. Time has come to eliminate incentives that have made human smuggling more lucrative than drug trafficking, and that make young people run a daily risk of fishing in the Mediterranean or of being exploited by unscrupulous adults. Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group with completely different needs and rights than adult asylum seekers. Lone minors shall follow up more closely than other asylum seekers. There are therefore clear demands for daily staffing on the receptions for this group. In addition, a number of skills-related requirements are required to provide a sound basis for housing and care provision for the lone minors in reception. UDI currently controls whether the operator is complying with the contract and the services to which they have committed themselves. If it is found that the reception does not meet the requirements, the UDI will follow this up in an appropriate manner. I therefore believe that any strengthening of supervision should not take place through the creation of new resource-intensive supervision, but through the existing structure. The most important thing in any case is to avoid young people coming into contact with human traffickers initially. To get to this, we have to look at out-of-date international conventions in a new light. In order to destroy the income base and incentives for human trafficking, the UN system should become the way to protection in Europe, and we need to help far more in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1037	First of all, seen from above: last year, about three times as many asylum seekers in Norway as we had expected in advance. It was therefore important for the Christian People's Party to support them – with tightening and not least measures to improve integration. That is why we have contributed to the broad agreement that Stortinget made before Christmas. But in this work, there are two indispensable principles for the Christian People's Party. One is that we follow international law and international obligations, the other is the focus on the children's situation. It's a test piece of our humanism and our human vision. Children coming to Norway for protection must be guaranteed safe and dignified care. This applies not least to those who come alone, for whatever reason. They're extra exposed. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have found a solution for the long-term children, along with the Left and the Government. It is good that the law has included a greater emphasis on the situation of children in asylum matters. At the same time, we have to do more for lonely children on the run. A good and important step towards creating a secure framework is to remove the limited residence permit, so that they know that by going to school, by learning language, they have a future. The government has proposed to go in the opposite direction. We think that's going in the wrong direction. The organisations that took part in the hearing were crystal clear that temporary authorisations create insecurity and uncertainty, which could compromise the mental health of the child. It makes integration difficult, not least for the foster parents or the institution to care for them. Unfortunately, many end up operating in Europe, and more become victims of trafficking in human beings or criminal networks. The background was that we were going to prevent children from spending time on such a flight. The term is used as anchor children, because the family was to follow. That's one of the arguments. But the government's own trade union UDI has stated that this has had no particular impact on inflow. It actually turns out that only 6 pst. of these children were given family reunification. At the same time, it turns out that in 90 pst. for matters relating to lone minors, they are given residence for protection reasons. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned about a political way of thinking that makes everyday life, integration and living conditions difficult for children who have sought protection in Norway – to send a signal. These rules weren't supposed to be that way. Until September 2015, 75 out of 221 young people who have received a temporary residence permit under the foreign regulations § 8-8 have disappeared from reception. It's serious. We know that some of them can be victims of human trafficking. The Christian People's Party believes that a good measure to prevent this is to create a team that can identify potential victims and prevent children from being recruited. In this regard, I would like to point out that when the action plan against trafficking in human beings expired in 2014, the Christian People's Party asked the government when a new plan would be in place. We have now been told several times that there is still no new plane, but that it is right around the corner. We hope that it will be included now beyond spring, and that we will have clarity in it. The research report Levekår for children in the asylum-seeker phase points out that the proportion of asylum-seekers with emotional problems is «alarming». The government's own UDI and Health DGs recommended last year an early identification of those with special needs. Therefore, we propose that the government ensure that monitoring or investigation is carried out in order to detect this vulnerability. We think it can be an important tool to secure the future of these children. Not least, it is important that we ensure the child's professional competence at the receptions where these children live. Today, the UDI itself supervises the operators. We believe that this is in contrast to the role of service manufacturer, and we therefore want the supervisory authority to be added to County. Then it may seem strange that it is not stated that the Christian People's Party is going to support the proposal. It's because of an incurrency. It would appear that we are making such a good proposal without at the same time saying that we are voting for everything we propose. This is an excellent proposal, which we are pleased to record that others will support. Not least, we hope that our basic vision will be followed in the following matters that the government will deliver beyond spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1056	Children who flee alone are a vulnerable group and require special organisation and follow-up. This applies to children over and under 15 years of age. The left therefore wants a wide range of accommodation services. I am pleased that many present as foster parents to single minor asylum seekers. We also believe that actors such as SOS children's cities can provide a good offer to these young people, who are the experience of other European countries. For the oldest children, we are pleased that some have already received an offer of accommodation in higher education schools, where they can combine accommodation with language training and schooling with the possibility of networking with Norwegian students. We are also very concerned about improving the arrival situation for lone minors, and I am pleased that the conditions on Tøen, among other things, have improved following a number of concerns messages last year. There is a need for pediatric competence at all levels of the reception apparatus, and this is particularly important at a time when younger and younger children are emerging. Physical conditions are not enough to ensure the safety of young people. Residence status is also important. We already know a lot about the consequences of temporaryity. The current temporaryity rules for some minors aged between 16 and 18 have not had the desired effect. The Government has sent a consultation proposal on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, and it is proposed to extend limited residence permits not only to children between 16 and 18 years of age but to all lone minor asylum seekers, regardless of age. This is just more of a medicine that doesn't work, and it's left very critical to. Children who came to Norway last year are younger than before — down to the age of nine — and the consequences for them are that it is more dramatic that the temporary period will be longer. While it was earlier one in ten who was less than 15 years old, it is now one in five. The proposal affects very many young children and will involve many years of uncertainty. Temporary authorisation will create uncertainties and uncertainties affecting the mental health of the child. It states that several temporary permits will make it more difficult to succeed in good integration and schooling. There is also reason to believe that we will have an increase in the number of disappearances, and that the fear of being sent out after the age of 18 contributes to the disappearance of lone minor asylum seekers before they reach the age of authority. We already know that many of them will be vulnerable to becoming victims of criminal networks and trafficking in human beings. The aim of the proposal is to reduce the number of single minors, but it affects mainly those who are already here and who will have difficulties integrating into society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1075	I will first address the proposals in the vote and immediately ask the Left to clarify its views on the specific proposals there. It did not appear in the statement of the representative or in the vote, and here the Left has the opportunity to have a majority for some of these proposals in the vote if they are in the position now both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party have notified that they are in favour. Children in refuge are protected by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It doesn't matter what we have to think about why the children are fleeing. During the 2013 election campaign, the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party and the current Minister of Government, Per Sandberg, said that he wanted to abolish the system of temporary residence for these children and that ‘the government is breaking the Children’s Convention every single day’ by maintaining it. The temporary residence scheme introduced in 2009 that SV took on in the government has proved not to function as the majority thought it should, because the idea is that there are only push effects on these children, i.e. that there are underlying networks that lie there and just want to get them to go to a Western country and exploit the system. That's the story of this. But the problem is that these kids are growing up in communities where there's no future. Many of them are without parents. It shows the statistics that there are very few of those who get family reunion, and very many of those who get it, get it with the sibling and not with the parents. This is the bitter, terrible reality many of these children live in, and if you're really concerned about hitting the legs of human trafficker networks around the world, you have to set up a system where people can seek asylum from places other than by having to travel on these dangerous routes in order to get to a border where they can seek asylum. SV believes that the government, through the draft consultation it has presented in the case of the lone minor asylum seekers, wants to make this system, which research shows to make children sick, and which does not help prevent more people from taking refuge, into a permanent system for all. And the majority who have participated in this integration and tightening agreement now know what the government means, so I'm amazed that the majority is sitting so calm and looking at this further. The trade unions, the government's own professional bodies, have taken this proposal apart, and yesterday the party groups and the committee met with UNHCR, which is also durifyingly critical of this being a scheme that will apply to all under 18 years of age and be extended. So this proposal, which is no. 1, all the parties in this room should join, including the Progress Party, whose Vice-Chairman in 2013 thought this was a violation of the Children's Convention. The second proposal, to identify all asylum recipients in order to detect vulnerability, is important, and the Stortinget decided, just before Christmas, on a proposal from SV, to search for these children and to have systems to find them again. There is no doubt – and Kripos reports – that well-known people cross circles around the receptions, and there are desperately lonely young people who need to have some to do with it. So there's also a need for increased staffing, so there's some adults there to take care of them, and there's time to talk to them. In the case of independent supervision, this is absolutely necessary. This is a sector where there's a lot of money to make, where there's too much bad supervision today, and where the media has revealed several cases where reception hasn't followed up its obligations in the contracts. As far as I know, there have been no consequences either. Finally, the proposal for a team against trafficking in human beings is absolutely necessary. The government has now trained proposals to put in place a new action plan, and this is not only about the plan, but also about money to finance its follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1092	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1095	Paragraphs 8 to 8 of the Foreign Regulation on the temporary authorisation of lone minor asylum seekers until they are 18 years of age were introduced in 2009. The aim was to prevent children from being sent on a long and dangerous journey alone, thereby reducing the number of lone minor asylum seekers. I think we all agree that this is an important objective. In 2014, 1 204 single-year-old asylum seekers arrived, while the number rose sharply in 2015 to 5,297. Norway was with this the fourth highest European country of reception for lone minor asylum seekers, and therefore arrivals are disproportionately high against population. In addition, the numbers show that around 80 pst. of all those in this group who came to Europe are from Afghanistan, during a period when other peoples could be expected. If it is known that unaccompanied minors without a need for protection can expect permanent residence in Norway, this may result in more children being sent away from family and networks. This is not a desired development. On the contrary, I believe it is necessary to introduce further measures to mitigate incentives to send children without a need for protection to Europe. Therefore, the Letter of Consultation of the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent out in December 2015 proposed amendments for this group. The proposal implies that the basis of residence should be reviewed to a greater extent than in the past at the age of 18. This will now apply to all those who have been granted temporary and limited authorisation as single minor asylum seekers. The Ministry is now working on the follow-up to the consultation round and will make proposals for legislative changes after Easter. It is the asylum recipients who are responsible for the care of single minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 in their daily lives. The UDI provides, inter alia: care, manning and pediatric competence requirements for those operating the receptions. Individual monitoring is also required in reception for single minors, the aim of which is to obtain the best possible basis for systematic follow-up and care provision for the individual. The representative proposal was made before the conclusion of the asylum agreement by a broad majority at Stortinget on 19 November 2015. In this, and in the integration agreement, this group states: ‘The government asks the government to pay special attention to single, minor asylum seekers in the reception of asylum.’ The size granted 48.5 million. kr extra for increased staffing and child-care competence at reception for lone minors over the age of 15. The UDI is now in the process of clarifying how these means can be used to achieve the purpose. Priority shall be given to this work. I have made a request in UDI’s 2016 letter of allocation that it be regularly reported on ongoing actions related to the reception conditions of single minor asylum seekers and their status, including measures to improve the group’s care and security and to reduce the risk of undesirable events where this is deemed necessary. I also noticed that the Committee refers to the handling by the Storting of the asylum and integration agreement later in the spring session, and that the proposals in the sales of representatives will naturally be included in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1123	I'm recording that no matter how the angle and the question are, the Council of State is running out of time on arrivals, border controls and what it might be. But now she is going to have the chance to answer what she has done in practice in relation to two important questions that were fucked in the Storting before Christmas, when the Stortinge said the following: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children who disappear from asylum are sought and that specific measures are put in place to prevent them from being exposed to trafficking in human beings and exploited in prostitution.’ What actual practical action has the Council of State Listhaug taken to follow-up the decision of the Storting from just before Christmas 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1133	There are procedures at UDI for following up such disappearance cases. Then it is notified to various authorities, including the police. I had the pleasure of being out with the Oslo police to see how you work out in the field, both to have an overview of general criminal networks and how to follow the picture, among other things. related to persons who have disappeared. They may also be asylum seekers. What we know is that this is a field where it's relatively demanding to know where these people are going. There's reason to think some people are going out of the country. There is reason to believe that some have acquaintances in Norway, with whom they live after they have disappeared — and it is voluntary to live at reception. An investigation is underway to look at these questions, which I want to study with interest, to see what more we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1142	That the state council has been with the police is all right. That UDI has routines, as the Council of State says, is well and good. That it's hard to know where these disappear, we can agree. That it is voluntary to live in reception – yes, it is. The question is, what has the Council of State actually done to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy, which was to ensure that children who disappear from reception are actually sought out, and what has the Council of State done to prevent them from being subjected to trafficking in human beings and exploited for prostitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1149	As I said, I have examined what procedures exist today. I've also looked into whether those procedures are good enough. I will have contact with UDI and other authorities to find out. The foreign police unit and the police are also important in this work. But I also think it's very important that we get out and actually look at reality out there. So when I go out with the police, it's very useful, because I see how you work on the street, and I see how these things work in practice. At least for me, they are a very important premise to see what changes I think must be made in some cases. This is a continuous work, so we're going to follow this up more closely and see if there's more that needs to be done to help get a better overview of this. But this is a demanding field, and that's why we've started to figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1158	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State takes a negative view of establishing an independent supervisory system and justifies the fact that there is a wrong use of resources in the current situation. We will later have the opportunity to come back to this and other measures to improve the situation of the lone minor asylum seekers. One of the proposals made in the Integration Agreement is to ensure that children who come to Norway on their own are better protection systems. I have the impression that today's Vergemålssystem is characterized by the fact that some forgetrs are responsible for a large number of children, and that the contact between children and guardians becomes too weak. Is there a problem, in the opinion of the Council of State, in today's situation? And what will the Council of State possibly do to ensure that this system works as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1165	In the case of an independent supervisory system, we will come back to it later. But in these days, I think it is incredibly important to sit down carefully and consider how to use the resources. It's related to the fact that we had to re-prioritize $9.5 billion. kr to deal with the increase in the influx of asylum last year – that is a significant sum. In addition, the country is facing an increasing unemployment rate, which means that we also need to look at how we can stimulate the creation of more jobs. It is also important for all those who come to Norway and want to get to work, because if we are to get people into work, there must actually be jobs to offer them. I think it is very important to point out when making decisions in this room, that you have to think completely, so that resources are used in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1170	In his reply to the representative, Lauvås, and in his speech, the Council of State revealed that the increased funds have not yet been used to increase the professional competence of children at receptions and clearly have done nothing to comply with the decision of a unanimous increase before Christmas, to prevent trafficking in human beings and to ensure that these children are actually sought out. The problem here is that you don't have any routines on the paper. The problem is that the police say you do not prioritize it, and they are not being searched. You just record that the kids disappear, and then you're done with it. I'm going to give the Council of State an opportunity to explain exactly what the government has intended to do, and also to give a reason why you haven't chosen to spend the money that Stortinget has, after all, granted to increase the child-disciplinary competence in the asylum chain to look after these children, who are alone, and who have now had months to spend in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1177	UDI has been commissioned to decide how best to use this money. It's because I have much more faith that they know where the shoe prints and can use the money in a reasonable way, than the politician, who's not out there every day and sees the needs, can do. The UDI is now in the process of deciding how to use this money. So one shouldn't be afraid: they're going to be used up in the course of the year, at least there's going to be enhanced competence out there. The Government shall provide an action plan against trafficking in human beings. It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for this. This action plan will come in the spring, and there it is also natural that we look at themes that have been affected here in the past relating to trafficking in human beings against asylum seekers and lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1184	It is not that my concern relates to whether the money is being used. My concern is that there are children who disappear, who we don't know what's going on, and that Kripos tells us that known people are crossing circles around the receptions, and that there are very few adults there to look after the children. These children are subjected to abuse when they are under our responsibility, and the Council of State should also be more concerned than if the money should be spent. So the council says it's UDI that's going to decide how to use this money, because they know best. This is also the question of whether the Council of State will listen to UDI or IMDi or Bufdir or UNHCR or the Council of Europe when they strongly advise against introducing a temporary scheme for all lone minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age, as proposed by the Government. They point out, inter alia: IMDI, that in their opinion this is not compatible with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Do the councils disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1191	I am also concerned that these children will get a good offer. That's why I'm very pleased that UDI is now looking at how these receptions can be strengthened by the allocation that the bourgeois parties here on the Stortinge agreed on for the current year. As far as the other considerations are concerned, our concern is to think on behalf of the country in the long term. That means that the constraints we are now going to have to be the right ones for the country for a long-term period. In order to take our neighbouring country as an example of how bad things can happen: in Sweden, there were 35,000 lone minor asylum seekers last year. As a result, in several age groups in Sweden, gender, boys and girls are more unevenly balanced than in China, which has been pursuing a single-child policy for relatively many years. There's only one example of how bad things can go. I am very concerned that we in Norway should conduct a responsible immigration policy that makes it sustainable and that we can succeed in integrating the children who will continue to be in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1201	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1206	There was a dramatic increase in the arrival of lone minor asylum seekers last year. In 2014 it came about. 1 200 to Norway, but approx. 3 800 from January to October 2015. Yes, it is completely «hard». We know that lone minors have largely been sent to Europe and Norway by their parents. The possibility of lasting residence and a better economic future for the family in the home country may be the reason for minors to be sent away from family and acquaintances. The children are used in a cynical game that involves parents in company with hard - barked traffickers. We need to do what we can to avoid children being sent out on a life-threatening journey across the Mediterranean and through Europe. The limited authorisation system for single minor asylum seekers aged between 16 and 18 is an important and necessary instrument for limiting arrivals and preventing children from being sent on their own without a need for protection and other grounds for residence. We also have problems with single minor asylum seekers in East Agder, like all other places. The purpose of the provisions applies more strongly to the high arrivals we saw last autumn. However, children entering Norway should be well followed. The fight against trafficking in human beings must take place across sectors, and both foreign authorities, police and child protection have important roles. The Child Protection Act applies to all children in Norway, regardless of whether they have received asylum and citizenship. It has been a problem for years for children to disappear from receiving asylum. I am therefore very happy that the government is following the problem closely, and that, among other things. published research on children disappearing from asylum recipients in a report coming in the spring of 2016. We need to rethink refugee policy and assume that the world's 61.5 million refugees cannot be settled in Norway. Refugees should be helped in the neighbourhood through the UN system and not risk their lives in a desperate attempt to seek asylum in Europe. Today’s asylum system is completely out of date, and it is the children who pay the price – either for lack of help in the neighbourhood or in the hands of traffickers in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1221	In my previous post, I had a forgetfulness – I did not explain how we in the Left will vote in voting. We are not going to vote in favour of the proposals. 1 and 2 from SV, but will vote in favour of the proposals No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1228	I am pleased, because then it will be a majority to ask the government to assess the independent supervision of the receptions of lone minor asylum seekers. It's a pleasure. We have also made such a proposal with regard to all the receptions, and that is absolutely necessary. I hear that the government is now working on more independent supervision for the health sector, among other things, where a lot of supervision and bodies have already been established, while here – in a market that is, to put it that way, the seller's market, and where there is a lot of money – one obviously does not think that this is necessary. It's kind of eye-catching. Having a team against human trafficking is absolutely necessary, because that's not what the previous speaker said, that the government has been on this. On the contrary, the Swedish Government's proposal, adopted by the Swedish Government, is clearly not followed up, and we are also waiting for a new action plan against trafficking in human beings, which the Council of State has promised to come again and again, but on which there does not seem to be any speed at all. And anyway, it'll just be a paper. It has to be filled with content, so that you actually do something different than what you've done now. Fafo presented a research report last year that shows that many of the missing children are actually at risk of trafficking in human beings — and that is quite grotesque. So it could have been tempting to say, when a representative from South Africa is up here talking about how terrible it is to send children of farms out into the world, that you don't take on the fact that it's war. So it's neighbouring countries that have millions of refugees with them. It's just 30,000, well, what came to Norway last year. In recent years, immigration has been much higher than that, so its size has been completely removed from its context. You probably don't realize that there's war and misery these kids are fleeing from. I just find reason to remind you that the committee was traveling in Trøndelag a few weeks ago. Then we became familiar with a cultural action in the South-Trundellag that took into account how Norwegian migrants to the United States had built up the communities in Trøndelag. There were many young people, all the way down to the age of 13, who had been sent by farms. These are people we celebrate today. I think they had it set, and I don't think there's any reason for us to sit on our high horse and condemn others, especially if they send their kids away from war and misery. We have no moral reason to do that in rich Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1239	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1253	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1260	I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs from the Left who, with this proposal, will help to increase both the bicycle share and make all cycling as safe and secure as possible. An overall committee is committed to increasing the bicycle share in order to achieve the target of 8 pst. In addition to the health benefits, better organisation of cyclists will bring significant benefits in terms of road safety, the environment and, in particular, traffic management. In many places both in cities and in rural areas, the conditions for cyclists are still difficult, so the risk of accidents is high. The Committee is concerned that non-compliance with traffic rules and lack of organisation leads to too many road-hazardous situations. It should therefore be a priority task for municipalities, counties and states to increase their efforts to make more people use bicycles. Despite a significant effort by Stortinget over several years to build more bicycle paths, it will still be that cycling in motorised lanes will be the most common in the future. In view of this traffic situation, the Committee is concerned that the use of bicycles as a means of transport to and from work and for training purposes must be made as safe as possible as the proportion of bicycles increases. A Joint Committee is concerned with better urban planning, but will also recall that it is a national objective to involve the whole country in increasing the bicycle share. This is not least about ensuring safe walking and cycling routes to school throughout the country. In order to facilitate greater organisation across the country, the Committee calls for greater flexibility and faster clarification by the State to provide good local solutions for the construction of pedestrian and cyclist routes. Rigid legislation can lead to both unnecessary and costly solutions in some contexts, which actually impede the establishment of safer paths for pedestrians and cyclists. In this area, therefore, the Committee is committed to facilitating good practical solutions that can improve the safety of the lists, even if the solutions do not always comply with the legislation adopted. The Committee has also, in its comments, been committed to pointing to a better organisation for the use of volunteers in the winding-up of bicycle rides. The Committee took note of the contributions made by the Norwegian Cycling Association and the Norwegian Sports Association on 28 February 2016 by the Directorate of Police. They believe that the consequences of the practice of using mobile watches in bicycle rides in line with this circular could actually be devastating to the activity for more than 400 bike rides per year. It is therefore appropriate, in the Committee's view, to look for solutions to these challenges without having to circumvent Norwegian law. Therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, mobile guards should be able to assist the police after adequate training. Among other things, the Committee refers to the good experience of the Søndre Buskerud police district, where one has achieved good cooperation between the organiser and the police for the benefit of both the participants, the audience and other road users. Today’s practice and requirements for road safety measures often involve very high costs for organisers, unfortunately depending on the police district in which they are located. The Committee therefore emphasises the importance of achieving the best possible level playing field in all police districts. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Advances and the Centre, will await the submission of NTP and its own roll-out message on road safety with regard to solutions and strategies that can best contribute to increased road safety with special adaptation for cyclists. A minority from the Christian People's Party and the Left believes it is most appropriate to have a separate big message that could come up with proposals for measures that could improve road safety for the cycling road users. They consider that enhanced knowledge of the interaction between walking, cycling and motorised driving is important and otherwise refers to the proposal of the representative relating to minimum spacing and mandatory rules as important issues that need to be clarified in a separate notification. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for constructive and good cooperation and therefore recommend the Committee's position, including the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1283	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1286	I would first like to start by thanking the representatives from the Left with an important proposal for a representative. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good piece of work, which has provided for agreement on several points in the matter. The size has adopted the National Cycle Strategy 2014–2023. This strategy has a target of 8 pst. bicycle fraction. Furthermore, through the climate agreement, the size has agreed that all traffic growth in urban areas will take place through public transport, bicycles and corridors. It requires an increased focus on physical organisation, better information and training on traffic rules, an impact on both cyclists and other groups of road users and a clarification of traffic legislation. In fact, more people have to choose bicycles as a means of transport. The environmental package in Trondheim has found that approx. half of the journeys between one and two kilometres are by car. It tells me that we have not only a potential, but also an opportunity to actually achieve the goals we have set ourselves. The political effort must then not be at the expense of safety, but based on the safety of those who travel along the roads — if not, the price of this bicycle effort will be too high. Fortunately, at a time when traffic fatalities are falling, it is more serious that accidents with soft road users are increasing. We know that cyclists are vulnerable on their way in traffic, they have a significant risk of harm. A cyclist has 20 times as high a risk of injury as a driver, most accidents are only accidents, and luckily the damage is usually mild or moderate. Nevertheless, it is a fact that twelve cyclists died on Norwegian roads in 2015. Children and young people are particularly vulnerable in this context. They have little opportunity to participate in the transport planning that deals with their everyday lives. The younger the children, the more dependent they are on us adults caring for their need for security. It starts in many ways with a good childhood. Safe and well-organised breeding environments can provide soil for more people to choose bicycles as means of transport when they get older. It is about seeing infrastructure, land policy, road safety, climate and awareness-raising work in the context. I would specifically ask the Council of State to have this in mind when he presents both the proposal for a new national transport plan and the roll-out notice on road safety. In any case, the working party shall ensure that it keeps that tab high. Furthermore, the working party believes that it is right to await the presentation of these two plans rather than demanding a separate progress report on road safety for the cycle now, just to see the whole of the road safety work we are doing. Finally, the Labour Party, like the rest of the Committee, believes that the consequences of a circular from the Police Directorate on the use of mobile guards will make it impossible to implement more than 400 bicycle rides annually. The government must therefore provide, by the end of 2016, in cooperation with the bicycle organisations, with a regulatory framework to allow organisers of bicycle rides to use mobile guards. The decision-making authority to allow the use of such guards shall be with the individual police officer. The use of mobile guards obviously requires adequate training. For the time being, the Council of State must provide for temporary provisions to ensure that future cycling can actually be arranged in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1309	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the entire committee for an interesting process. The great degree of consensus in the vote reflects well the spirit of the committee, even though the various parties have had a slightly different approach to the matter. What might have been the biggest problem was to find out how best to ensure a good follow-up. This is a proposal for a big message in the proposal, which, for the Right, seemed unnatural, on the basis that we are going to consider both a national transport plan for 2018-2029 and a road safety plan for the next year. We were therefore concerned that we had to deal with the bicycle measures in connection with these two plans. In this context, the Department is expected to address the main challenges posed by the representative proposal in this context. It is worth noting that there is a great deal of consensus on the challenges and opportunities of a more active cycling policy. It is agreed that bicycles should become a natural means of transport far more than is the case today. The size has agreed that traffic growth in urban areas will be achieved by public transport, bicycles and corridors. To achieve the national target of 8 pst. The proportion of bicycles on a national basis requires a wide range of instruments. This is a challenge that will require more intensive efforts from both the State, the county and the municipality. It is important to take into account that improved organisation of cyclists can also bring significant social benefits in terms of road safety, the environment and traffic management, as well as health benefits. The Committee agrees to define the main challenges. I'll point out someone. Despite significant efforts on the part of Storting to develop new bicycle routes and repair existing ones, there are still too few sites and the accident risk of cycling is too high. It will continue to be such that cycling in the motorised road will be the most common forward cycling arrangement. Therefore, better information and training is needed on traffic rules for cyclists, attitudes towards both cyclists and other groups of road users, as well as clarification of traffic legislation. It must be combined with a general commitment to the good training of future cyclists in traffic rules. Especially in cities, we see that more and more young people do not take a car certificate, which means that they cannot be expected to have a good knowledge of the traffic rules. I would warn against giving cyclists special benefits in traffic compared to today. Those using the road have to comply with the same traffic rules, whether for bicycles or for cars. This will be important with a large amount of electric bicycles and at higher speeds. A feature of which the Committee has been particularly concerned is the safety of bicycle ride events. Organisers report unreasonable costs. This will affect cycling in general and children’s and young people’s opportunities to participate in bicycle riding in particular. In particular, it is appropriate to consider whether volunteers can assist the police to a greater extent than at present. However, we would stress that the responsibility for the safety of such events must not be powdered. I noticed that the representative proposal seems to be inspired by an expressive list. We therefore need to point out that there are many groups of cyclists who need to be taken into account in the design of a bicycle policy. The debate on how to facilitate cycling is often about the challenges and measures that are relevant in urban areas. It is therefore important to remember that it is cycled throughout the country, even outside the major cities, and that it is central to the national objectives in the field that Norway as a whole is involved in increasing its bicycle share. It is particularly important to ensure a safe way for students to walk and cycle to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1328	The representative proposal on improving road safety for bicycles addresses many issues — and more good issues. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his patience and for the Committee's ability to conclude on the most important points in this matter. The proposers address this with sport and transport. I think that the Progress Party and the Committee have been most focused on how we can simply secure cycling – preferably children and young people – around the schools. That is what the Progress Party believes is the most important thing we can do before changing traffic rules. The Progress Party believes that we should have good traffic rules, and believes that what you learn as a child also applies when you grow up – whether you ride fast or slowly. Often it is about the country – more than just the big cities – to get a one-time and bike path to separate soft and hard road users. I am therefore pleased that the KS has received a pilot project where they can look at how to deviate from standards today, so that municipalities can afford to build walking and cycling paths. This is the biggest challenge for too many municipalities around the country – and perhaps what you can best help with so that more people can learn to ride as a child. I am pleased that you have gathered to make sure that there is no doubt: The Storting sends a clear message that by cycling you want more mobile guards to be used, and that the authority here belongs to the police chief. I think it is nice for most of the cycling clubs around most of the counties in the country that there is a good interaction where you use mobile guards, but the committee – and the Progress Party alike – is very clear that adequate training should be given. Then we realize that the most important thing for cycling is – as I say – that it is actually a once- and bike path. The progress party is probably not so that cyclists on expressive routes must have an advantage everywhere. I think it's important that there are rules that say that when you're not on the road, you have compulsory leave for those who are on the road. As I said, the proposal for a representative addresses many good proposals and many good issues. I am pleased that the government is coming back with a common transport policy that takes account of all road users and modes of transport, in the NTP. With this I thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1345	I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the entire committee for having been able to find a constructive approach both to the proposals that lie here, and also to further work in terms of walking and cycling throughout the country. I think that's very nice. The growth of urban passenger transport is to be taken by collective, bicycle and gangways. Then we have to increase the attractiveness of people who want to ride, not just for those who want to ride fast, but for people who see it as an opportunity to ride to and from work. Then we also have to increase security, because many people think it's a little unsafe today. That's not a good solution. We expect the national transport plan and the Road Safety Action Plan to address these different aspects of road safety and cycling. It is important to also look at the infrastructure that needs to be provided, both in urban regions and in different parts of the country. The previous speaker pointed out that you were not very interested in express bicycle routes. I suppose I have to admit that so far I have not found the huge enthusiasm, but there is a need to take different measures around in a country that is quite different from city to city and in different regions and villages. We also see the need for the cycling manual to be revised, and we think it might be useful to see it as part of the work to be done in the future. It is right, as the Committee points out, that walking and cycling routes around schools around the country are given priority. We want children and young people to become more physically active, and being able to go or ride to school must be part of it. I was pleased to see that the Minister for Transport invited children and young people to work on Barna’s transport plan. It's very good, and it's in line with what we've discussed earlier in Stortinget. I think it should be part of that work with a safe school path. More flexible solutions for building walking and cycling roads are also essential. The country is different. There may not be a 4 meter wide walk and cycle path 3 meters from the road in all places. There might be other, more smooth ways to do it. I visited Østfold this summer, and I visited Fosen, who has different thinking associated with more flexibility. I think it has to be done in this area that ensures that you get the bicycle and walk away, and that you can also do it in a more reasonable way and maybe get more bike path for the money that we want to spend on it in the future. Then I'm glad that the committee has gathered together politically to find solutions for bike rides. We have a lot of bike rides today. We want there to be many bike rides in the future too, and then it is important to ensure that what is needed in order to carry out the bike ride in a safe and sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1362	I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the good care of the motion for a resolution No 8 that we have been promoting. I will also refer to the seminar that the Left and Christian People's Party held together with the actors about this. It is right that the representative, Mr Igstad, pointed out that this proposal could be inspired by an express-syclist. But I want to say that I am both a urbanist, an express cyclist and a trademarkist. So I generally like to bike, but the proposal is clearly inspired by the bike tour I had last summer, when I rode from Lindesnes to North Cape and followed by a whole 60 bike clubs. Our country is very beautiful to look at and experience, at the same time there is great variation, unfortunately, in the case of the asphalt cover and not least the driving culture that we see around the country. With the background of the recordings that came from the bicycle clubs I met, I summarised it in this Document 8 proposal that we promoted, and parts of it will now be adopted. An important part of this isn't being adopted today, but it shows that this is going to come back to the government, and it's important that you actually do it in a proper and binding way. Here in Stortinget we talk very often about everyday cyclists, and very many of those things the Stortinge can do a lot about – that we want the bike share and the bike path – but we often forget that they are also like bikes for sports, and those that ride fast. And for those who ride fast, especially to and from work, this is the normal way to build walking and cycling routes on not ‘users’. It's not possible to ride a race bike where there's a lot of gravel, for example. So it's easy to puncture. It's a lot up and down from high asphalt edges. It's not very favorable for the cyclists, especially there several bikes together. Then you quickly cross the road. Those who keep more speed than 15 to 20 km/h on a bicycle will prefer to ride on the road, and that's what you do all over the country. Then I get into the culture bit, and that you have drivers – as we often read – who both wash bicycles with window washer fluids and drive past and tune. If you think about it yourself, it is such that when you see a car driving past a motorcyclist, the car is normally at a good distance from the motorcyclist, although there is relatively little difference in speed compared to a cyclist. Well, a motorcyclist can, for example, keep 60 km/h, and the car that runs for 80 km/h is passing by, but it keeps a safe distance, because as a driver, we automatically think that it is important that we do so in order to create that safety. But in that example, it's 20 kilometers per hour in difference on the go. And then there's a cyclist in front of us, we might as well sit down for 80 km/h, even though the cyclist has a speed of 20 km/h. The air pressure represented by the pass-by poses a far greater risk to the cyclists. This is the change of position we need to make, through both driving training and tightening rules, so Norwegian drivers too understand that the recommended 1.5-metre rule must be followed. That is why I and the Left have proposed that this is precisely what we need to build both attitudes and cultures of pass-bys, because that is what is the greatest risk to cyclists throughout the country today. On that trip, I also experienced many dangerous situations, and these active cyclists across the country – not just in metropolitan areas – are concerned that when they are on the roads and cycling, the drivers should take them into account. That is why I very much hope that the government will come back with good proposals to improve road safety for cyclists. This will help bring more people out on bicycles – which is a goal for the Storting. I am very pleased that the Stortinget unanimously decides to allow more mobile guards in the conduct of bicycle rides. We recognize this from last year, when the NRK among others. made a case that the sports club Hero had to lay down the children's bike ride in Maridalen because the police costs were so high. There are also examples from Bodø and elsewhere. The sample strength is another example, where I think it's estimated that about 0.5 million. NOK goes away from the police costs. It is clear that this will mean that we will have more children's bike rides terminated and that we will have bike rides completed throughout the country. So all in all, I'm very happy that we're getting a pass on it. I thank the President-in-Office for this and look forward to the Council's reply on how they intend to follow up the road safety aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1388	It is essential to make it possible for more people to ride bicycles. It's good from a transport perspective: the bike doesn't take much space in the cityscape, so we get our areas used more effectively. It's good from an exercise perspective and a public health perspective: getting touched on your body keeps you a little bit better in shape. And it's also exciting from a sports perspective: good cyclists, good bike rides, Tour de France and good rides in Norway are something that gathers many people and creates a lot of enthusiasm. Facilitating cycling in everyday life is an important job. We have a very varied population in terms of cyclists. We have everything from young people, who because of their height and inexperience may lack an overview of how they interpret the traffic situation, to the old ones, who because of their body may have challenges with balance and other things, but who still choose the bike as a means of emergence. And we have hobbyists, commuters and those who are going to compete with themselves every day on their way to work. With increased use of electric bicycles, we also see that ever new groups will be able to get the range that the bike provides when you get an electric motor on it. It also means new user groups. The fact that a person does not have very strong training requirements from the authorities in order to use a bicycle also means that experience and understanding of traffic can vary greatly. That's why it's important, basically, in this that we have respect for each other when we're out – between cyclists, but not least between drivers and cyclists. There are many rules already in the law today, but it is about people actually living by them. Then it's about whether you have rules or not, you're going to have respect for each other when you're out in the public room. And it's also worth reminding cyclists about. During the work on Barna’s transport plan, I have visited several schools lately, and especially in the cities, young school students are actually experiencing the most threatening. Too many cyclists will take care of themselves and not feel that pedestrian fields mean that they have compulsory care for the children, but that they can rather snort between them. And for a little kid on his way to school, having a cyclist at a great pace, even though the cyclist thinks he has full control, can still be seen as frightening to the little ones. There's something the cyclists also have to bring with them. In our work, it's about contributing all the good forces, supporting Cyckle to the job action and the like, but it's also about ensuring that the physical conditions are better organized. It does one through appropriations – and there I am very pleased and proud of the work that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have done together, which means that only for the 2016 budget has the appropriations increased by almost 60 pst. compared to the previous year. One also has a grant scheme which now provides many municipalities with facilities for cycling, by providing good places to park the bicycle, the development of bicycle paths and the like. This is also the case for legislation on the construction of a bicycle path, which has been mentioned by several people. Making sure that one can build bicycle routes simpler and cheaper by being a bit flexible in relation to general rules and standards is also important. And making sure that you have the right bike path according to the conditions is about getting a lot of money back, because in some places it's about that one needs capacity, that one needs very good physical separation because one has high-traffic roads, many cyclists, and then a few good separation. In other places it's about having a small stripe, not necessarily 4 meters wide, which was mentioned, but having a narrow stripe that's safe enough – because it's not about many that are going the same way; it's about getting away anyway, like from a narrow country road, but with a lot of heavy traffic. Having that flexibility, allowing local politicians to have more influence and to be listened to by the Road Administration is important. Then the winding up of bicycle rides was taken up. I think it's important that we make sure that Norway is a good place to have bike rides, both for the professionals, for the happy amateurs and for children. I notice the decisions the Storting is making. I would say at the same time that there are some grey zones here. What is e.g. adequate training? In order to drive a police motorcycle and to be allowed to break speed limits and other rules, quite extensive training is required. So now we want ordinary motorcyclists to also be allowed to break the speed limit, traffic rules, etc., and it will be important to find an appropriate clarification on that. There is a great deal of responsibility left to local police districts to manage this, when one says yes to the violation of traffic rules by civilian road users. What happens if there's an accident? It is some of the work that needs to be done properly, together with the Norwegian Cycling Association and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1411	Today we are dealing with proposals to make the use of bicycle safer. In an interview with Morgenbladet on 4 March, the Minister for Transport is quoted as follows: ‘The more bicycles, the more common it becomes for other road users to take them into account.’ However, the Minister's reply to the Committee states: ‘It is also the case that the safety of cyclists in traffic depends not only on the content of the rules but also on compliance with the rules.’ My question to the Council of State will then be as follows: Does the Council of State mean that only the cyclists will be enough, so will their safety in traffic also increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1428	There is no contradiction between the two quotations made by Mr Tung. I think it's a pretty normal observation that the more people out there go, the easier it is for the drivers to notice them and take them into account. And the more cyclists you have the habit of seeing in the traffic picture, the more you notice them. So it's not a call for you to be reckless if you hit a cyclist alone, but there's something about the more people who ride, the more people will get that experience even when they're driving sometimes and take into account. I believe that legislation should be clear, so that someone knows what rules you have to deal with when you're in traffic. But regardless of the rules, as I said in my post, it's all about the fact that it's common good manners to show responsibility and consideration when a journey in public space. It's important. That's not all you can regulate with rules – sometimes it's actually people's good conscience and manners that must also be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1435	According to the climate agreement in Stortinget, which the Progress Party chose to stand outside, it is stated that growth in traffic is to be taken by collective, bicycle and gangways. Several major cities have now taken good steps to increase the provision of collective services, as well as to facilitate more cycling and walking. In many cases, we know that this is about tough priorities. The Council of State itself has called for a faster and more reasonable construction of transport projects hereafter. As far as a good measure is concerned, but in what way will the Minister ensure that road safety considerations for vulnerable road users do not become a balancing item in such projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1442	I think it's just to look at what we've been doing – in the next 30 months that this government has been running, road safety has been very heavy. So the climate agreement is mentioned. I just want to remind you that regardless of whether you were in it or not, there's a lot in the climate deal that one in any case supports. The railway appropriations have increased by more than 50 pst. by the majority of the day. In the case of collective action, e.g.: in Oslo, Oslo Municipality in 2014 and 2015 has received almost four times larger appropriations compared to what they received in 2012 and 2013 when the previous government ruled. More bicycle paths are being built now. We've also taken several steps to make it cheaper to make bike paths. The fact that we are now going to have a separate communication on road safety, as the majority wants, and that we are going to have a separate transport plan for Barna's own, is also an example of initiatives that have come from the civil side, which means that we have come further with crowns and rules to ensure road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1451	It is an objective to obtain good, safe solutions for cycling across the whole country. Then, in a number of contexts – the Council of State was also involved in its statement – it is felt that we have a rigid code, manuals, etc., which actually prevent good, practical solutions for the construction of a pedestrian and bicycle path, including: some minimum requirements for both width, axle load, etc. What will the Council of State do to benefit from practical solutions to the construction of pedestrian and cyclist routes across the whole country, without going beyond road safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1458	We have already cooperated with the Municipal Councils' Central Association, KS, where through them we reach the municipalities to ask them if there is a project that a local opinion would be sensible to implement, but where one experiences that rigid requirements, guides from manuals or dialogue with Vegvesenet make it appear to be more expensive than what a local opinion is necessary. It's kind of our main approach to this. By getting some projects that we can go into and make assessments, build and then draw experience from, one can look at whether some of the manuals are too strict or whether they should have been more separated between city and country, geographical areas, etc. Some of the examples we get include: an emphasis on the kind of maintenance equipment that a person likes to have in an area says that in order to break that bicycle path, the bridge and everything else must be able to withstand the axle load on that bridge equipment. If so, for example. could be more flexible and say that a buyer buys a separate light pickup that fixes the same job. We need that flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1465	The Council of State was in many of the themes contained in the Document 8 proposal in its article, and I think he answered in a nice way. One of the decisions we are going to take today is to find solutions, temporary provisions to ensure the possibility of cycling during this season. I've noticed that there's a lot of anxiety out there, you fear it's going to be more expensive and harder to implement. Can the Council of States contribute to a calming down of this turmoil, to a sense of security that it is possible to implement the plans for cycling around the country this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1470	I want us to be able to complete the bike ride in the best possible way. There is now a dialogue with the revision of the legislation on bicycle riding between road authorities, the police and the Norwegian Cycling Association. The primary thing will be to ensure that that dialogue is as good as possible and that you also have a good dialogue locally where you will have such an event. What is challenging – and it also makes us more aware of it in a way – is that when a mobile motorcycle watchman, who has been the primary discussion here, means that he gives authority to allow some motorcyclists to break traffic rules, speed limits, etc. It's a pretty heavy responsibility for a police chief to give in his local district, in case of an accident. I also have great respect for that, and that is why we want to ensure that the dialogue that is going on is as good as possible, so that we can find regulatory changes or changes that take care of both sides of this matter here. But my appeal is that both the police and the cyclists find as practical solutions as possible between themselves within the legislation that we have, until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1475	Provided that the committee unanimously presents here, is voted through and adopted, I just have to make sure that the Council of State understands that it is not just dialogue that he is going to engage in. The government is asking the government to ensure that we have a regulation in place that allows the organisers to use mobile guards and that the government also provides temporary provisions for the current year. So it's no big news that you use mobile guards in bike rides around Norway. You've been doing that for a long time, and you've had good experience with that. It is not the case that everyone is going to sit on a motorcycle and break the speed limits. These are people who have the competence to do it and experience doing it, and it is done in organized forms under the direction of the Norwegian Cycling Federation. Just to understand it correctly: assuming this is adopted, it is not just a dialogue, etc., and the government is to look at, etc., but the government is to ensure that the legislation is put in place. Can I now hear from the Council of State if he thus feels obliged to follow up what The Storting may adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1484	It is unnecessary to ask a state council to confirm that he is obliged by the Stortinget to decide. It lies as a matter of course. I just pointed out that some things take time, so that one actually gets regulatory changes or changes in the law already right now, that doesn't happen. I think the representative Raja knows that too. This is why it is about ensuring that we have as good a dialogue as possible to find practical solutions locally. Then we're going to do the work needed to implement legislative changes and regulatory changes. I also believe that if we first have the dialogue in place, which is in progress, and which I notified to the Committee, in order to find out – together with the Norwegian Cycling Federation and the police – what changes actually need to be in place, and if we are also going to have the democratic hearings, we know that it will take a few months just to have something to hear. I am concerned that we should be good people and find solutions together, and then we should make sure that the law is as good as possible, in line with what the cycling wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1491	The size is today going to adopt some points about the winding-up of bicycle rides. But the matter is much, much wider than that and is primarily about road safety for cyclists. Then I just want to ask: when the Council of State has read the unanimous part of the committee position, which focuses on how important it is to facilitate cycling etc., is there one thing in the remarks that the Council of State is not already doing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1497	In general, I just want to say that we are already doing a lot of work that will facilitate more cycling. So there will be different assessments between different batches of how to do some detail work. For me, it is about making provision overall so that more people in all age groups and all qualification groups will be able to use bicycles more often. I think that the direction we're now seeing, with more electric cyclists, makes you in a city like Oslo, for example, take away some of the problems that some cyclist groups like to have, with height differences. In other places, you'll be able to get a range extension, which is important. For example, it will. especially be on the Iron. As a result, more and more people will find that the bike is an interesting means of transport in terms of work, especially in days when you start getting good weather, as it is now. At the same time, it is important that we have a transport system in cities, and build for that matter, which facilitates that not everyone will cycle as much in winter as in summer. Then you have to have a flexibility in everyday life that means you don't get chaos in public traffic on the day the cyclists become bus travelers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1504	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1507	I understood that the Council of State replied that there is nothing of what the committee is asking for in a unanimous remark, which the Council of State is not already doing today. I think that's a little sad, because I think the proposal from Abid Q. Raja is a good proposal, which is mainly about how to facilitate better road safety for cyclists, but which ends up with what the Stortinge adopts today, with just being a proposal that says that now you should better facilitate cycling. I would like to say that it is good to make better use of bike rides, but I realized that there are one out of seven points in the proposal, while the other six are about road safety. I just want to say it very simply: when I listened to the statements of the Council of State, there was nothing in what the Council of State said, which answered the challenge of the proposal – nothing. There the proposers challenge how we can do something about the uncertainties that exist today, which are clear in the legislation, but which are perceived as deeply unfair to people who are out and riding bicycles. Let me take an example: today when I rode to Stortinget, I cycled what is the main cycling network of Stortinget. Then I cross over and get into the Markweg, where there is a bike path down and a motorway next to it. When I cross there, the cyclists who come from the right are obliged to leave for me if they cycle in the bike path, while I have the obligation to leave the cars that come from the right in the road. If a cyclist chooses to cycle on the road instead of on the bike path, I have to give notice to the cyclists who come from the right. This is one of the things that has been addressed in the proposal of Abid Q. Raja, and as I say has been treated with a hare lab in the committee. At least there is no support in the Committee to look at precisely this kind of mandatory exit rules. Let me give you another example: when someone comes to Youngstorget from a well-organized bike path, which has been driven from the former Guri Melby transport and environmental agency, from a good bike path that goes over, one comes out into a traffic street. Many drivers will realize that they are obliged to give way to the cyclists coming from the right. Many cyclists will realize that the cars that come from the left have an obligation to give way to them, but the cyclists are actually obliged to give way to everyone when they come out on the normal road. I have to admit that when I saw this case, I expected the Council of State to take action on this, especially since the Committee has concluded that there is not going to be a big message about facilitating cycling and taking the reviews proposed by the proposers initially. I think that's gross. I would at least say that I had expected the Council of State, which has previously stood here on the interlocutory chair and met with my criticism of the rules on compulsory leave, to say that work has been started on compulsory leave, and the cyclists say that they have never felt as heard as they are now, at least had said something about how he had intended to meet the challenges that have come from Abid Q. Raja. Unfortunately, this does not happen, and unfortunately we will not see it in this debate. That makes people who think it's Abid Q. Raja's coming along, good ideas, have to take this up again and again, until we get an answer from the government that actually meets that criticism, the perfectly timely criticism of what's involved in weakening the safety of cyclists. Let me end by saying that I fully agree that we lack a good culture of cycling in Norway. We need a good cycling culture in Norway. Too many places it is that cyclists are the worst. I have experienced myself almost being driven down by cyclists who cycle on red light, but I have certainly also experienced many times in my time as a cyclist to be pushed out of the bicycle field, and that the bicycle field suddenly disappears, because you have not thought about the bike until you plan the roads. The councils are in one moment as I think it's important to lift up, and it's precisely that the cyclists ride at different paces, and if we're going to encourage more cycling, we have to take more of the place that's currently being set up for cars, and facilitate both those who ride fast, and those who are everyday cyclists. SV will support the minority proposal that has been promoted, and we support the other majority voting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1524	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1527	The Council of State’s articles – and some of the answers here – have made me somewhat uncertain about the focus the Council of State intends to have on the safety of the cyclists, and whether the Council of State is sufficiently forward-looking and offensive when it comes to road safety also for the cyclists. Here, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put forward proposals to make a big message precisely to bring forward measures to improve road safety for cyclists, and to revise and update the State's cycling manual. Unfortunately, this does not get the membership of the government parties. We have to wait for the government to come back with something at some point, while we know that the cycling season is starting now, and it is a potential for bicycle accidents if you do not have clear driving rules here. Then I note that the Council of State in its article points out that there are cyclists who are a little unearthly, that there are those who do not take enough account, and that just becoming the cyclists many enough, this is going to be quite fine. But I think this is about more than that. This is why one of our proposals was initially designed to change the curricula for driving training, so that the interaction between motorised vehicles, cycling and walking are given higher priority in training. That's true of everyone. It has something to do with being a soft road user as a cyclist, you are very vulnerable when you meet drivers who do not take the necessary considerations into account. Then some cyclists may experience mixed signals being sent by politicians. On the one hand, we want the bike share to go up, we want more people to go out and ride. At the same time, the statements you make are almost blamed on the cyclists for not being careful enough in traffic itself or for breaking traffic rules. Of course, everyone is going to follow traffic rules, and if there's something I can say to those who are organized cyclists through the Norwegian Cycling Federation, it's that if traffic rules are broken, it's hard to break. It is a culture of training in the cycling clubs that politicians may not know enough about, for example. the skepticism of the Council of State to allow mobile guards. You might want to be in a bicycle club and see the internal justice that's following traffic rules, stay two and two in width, stop when there's red light, etc. Bicycle training is also provided to children and young people. I would like to see several of the proposals that several of us in the Left – not only myself, but also Ketil Kjenseth, Pál Farstad and Terje Breivik – have made – have obtained the necessary majority. Once they have not received it, I expect the Council of State to come back quickly with something that is obligatory, so that we can ensure better road safety for cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1538	In connection with this case, a letter from the Ministry on what was done with the various proposals contained in the proposal from the proposers was given. Many of these issues were discussed during the preparation of the dialogue. Our point in this case was, I guess, that going through what's really the laws and rules of cycling, and taking out individual elements, this forum is not very well suited to. One of the clear feedbacks we received in the seminar that the Christian People's Party and the Left arranged, and where I was present, was that many of these proposals had to be investigated. It's not just given that the answer is that that's how we're going to do it – there might be other things. The council was concerned about something that I think you should not underestimate: when something is common in the traffic picture, you take it into account. The road service often says that they cannot create a walkway where there is almost never a person going. Such walking areas are fatal, because he who happens to be using the walking ground, believes that everyone else realizes that now he's crossing that walking area, and when he's the first one that week or six months, there's a certain risk of that. Of course, most cyclists have a responsibility to behave in traffic, in line with all other road users. My impression is that we are really trained – as drivers – to take account of the cyclists. It's not like cutting a cyclist for 80 km/h – you have to take the traffic picture into account. The thing that lies in the matter, and that we are concerned about, is that this needs to be reviewed. I agree that the curfew is one of the important things. Normally, you have to give way to those who come from the right – you have that responsibility. If you were to get a traffic picture where you have a break from the right and someone else has a break from the left, you're kind of out driving. So I'm very concerned that this is a moment that should definitely be reviewed, but it can't be done in a matter of this kind. Then I want to say that we are concerned that we should come back to this in a road safety plan. We also point to the possibility of taking this up in the Bike Manual. So it is – as I mentioned in my post – a challenge when normal cyclists have not had the training they receive via the car certificate. It's basically a question of how much they really know about traffic rules. So here's a job to do. But you can't adopt this piecewise and divided into the Storting. Therefore, we believe it is more natural that we now give notice that this must come in the forums where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1553	SVs Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås made me take the word. It could seem as if he made a claim that the Council of State was not concerned with road safety and cycling. I would like to remind you of the letter sent to the Committee, where the Council of State responds that he is concerned with road safety for all modes of transport, and also writes in the letter on a ‘special adaptation for cyclists’. Making almost one claim that the Council of State is not concerned with road safety for cyclists is special. So I'm going to draw attention to the fact that when you pull out Oslo and how you experience cycling in this city, that doesn't mean what it's like in the country. That's what I also mentioned in my post, and that Janne Sjelmo Nordås from the Center Party was inside. Norway is a long-distance country, and we must not base all cycling policies on how it works in the city we are in now. I think to the extent that it is a good point to take further that we actually have to see the country as a whole. I am happy to spend time — including the Council of State — and come back with a more comprehensive plan that takes into account road safety also for cycling, where you can see Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1560	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1563	I noticed that the Council of State said that this is being worked on, and that this will be brought back in connection with the NTP to see how to increase road safety for bicycles. As the Council of State has already worked on it, perhaps the Council of State will be able to tell the members of the Committee here in the Chamber and the Council about how to actually improve road safety for cyclists. What plan do you have, what ideas do you work with, and how far have you come to this stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1568	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1582	There is an overall committee that presents the proposal to Prop. 47 S for 2015-2016. The proposal concerns the establishment of requirements on the quality of aeronautical data and aeronautical information for the single European sky. The aim of the regulatory acts is to contribute to the efficiency of air traffic management in Europe by ensuring that up-to-date and accurate information and data, including map data, for civil aviation are communicated to users of such data. This will provide even safer aviation in Europe. Since the implementation of the Decision of the EEA Committee will require a decision to be taken on the basis of the consent of the Storting for the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee, it is necessary. The implementation of the legal acts in Norwegian law does not require legislative changes but will result in the need for certain regulatory changes. The ADQ Regulation has financial and administrative implications for the Air Safety, Avinor and Stand-alone Aerodromes such as Moss Airport Rygge and TORP Sandefjord Airport mf1. Similarly, the economic and administrative implications for the State Cartel Office and the National Aviation Barriers Register and the Military Geographical Service of the Defence Agency in so far as they provide data for civil aviation, as well as private surveying firms where they are engaged. As I said, military agencies are primarily affected as owners of civil aviation airports. Avinor, as responsible for 46 airports in Norway and the air navigation and publicity service, will receive approximately 180-200 million. SEK in total investment and implementation costs and SEK 20 million. kr in increased annual operating costs. Airports outside the Avinor system – which is currently Moss Airport Rygge, Notodden Airport, Stord Airport, TORP Sandefjord Airport and Ørland Main Aviation Station – will also incur increased costs related to investment in map data, management, etc. The total cost for these has been estimated at up to 12 million. NOK in project costs and up to SEK 6 million. kr in annual costs, but these are highly uncertain estimates. The Committee would encourage the Ministry of Transport to maintain close dialogue with the non-governmental aerodromes currently receiving grants, with a view to meeting any increased costs. Any increased expenditure on air traffic control will be covered within the current budgetary framework of the Ministry of Transport. Overall, data from new digital elevation and terrain models will facilitate a reduction of the risk associated with demanding ground operations carried out by the rescue services, police, air ambulance, air defence and civil helicopter operators. This is due to a delay of about one year in Norway compared to the deadline set at 30 June 2017 to convert all data into a new system. But we are not alone in not keeping the deadline. Many EU Member States have informed the European Commission that they are not in a position to keep this brief deadline. The Committee has also submitted the draft suspension proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which, by letter of 10 March 2016, is in line with the position of the Committee on Transport and Communications, without further comments. Therefore, an overall committee would recommend the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1603	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1617	I refer to an overall committee also in this matter. The background to this proposition is Decision No EU. 80/2009 on rules for the use of computer reservation systems adopted by the EEA Committee as part of the EEA Agreement. This Regulation lays down rules on reservation systems to be used by travel agents and other sellers of air tickets and associated railway tickets. The rules shall ensure that travel agents and passengers receive objective information from the reservation systems on travel and price options and that all air carriers are entitled to participate in a CRS system on equal and non-discriminatory terms. The systems are used by airlines for reservations and contain information on alternative travel modes, departure times, availability, etc. The new regulation is a consequence of the fact that air tickets are no longer sold in the same way as before. In addition, airlines are no longer the owners of the companies operating the reporting systems. As a result of the increasing share of air tickets being sold via the airline’s own Internet pages, the Regulation has also strengthened the possibility to engage in free price and conditional negotiations for sales via reservation systems. There is an overall committee that is behind the government's proposal. The Committee notes that both the old Regulation and the new Regulation mean that the responsibility for enforcement lies with the European Commission and the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, but that the proposal means that competition supervision will no longer assist ESA in these cases. The ESA will obtain the necessary information on Norwegian undertakings by means of the audit report referred to in Article 12 of the Regulation or by asking written questions directly to the undertaking in accordance with the provisions of Article 14. The Committee points out that, in accordance with Article 13, it may be ordered that the illegal stay be terminated whether or not the ESA will break the Code. Under the old Regulation, ESA already has the competence specified in the Regulation. In the light of the Committee's assessment, the inclusion of Regulation No shall not be affected. 80/2009 waiving of new sovereignty in addition to that already abrogated by the inclusion of Regulation No. 2299/89. [[EF]] [[EEC]] I am referring to the fact that an overall committee is asking the government to consent to the inclusion of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1642	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1652	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Eirin Sund on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary regulatory changes and measures to ensure that minority speakers are able to combine different schemes such as language training, introduction schemes and other formal training and work schemes — on the basis of the model from the trials on training provision for health professionals in the municipalities of Røros and Gloppen. ‘... The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1685	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for amendments to the Citizenship Act that opens up dual citizenship in the autumn of 2016. The rules on withdrawal, the requirement of dissolution from other citizenship and the loss of citizenship must be adapted to this new principle.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for a transitional arrangement in the late autumn of 2016 to ensure that those who have had the right to withdraw their Norwegian citizenship as a result of the acquisition of forward citizenship for the last five years will be able to regain their Norwegian citizenship upon application, irrespective of the normal requirements for residence in the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1707	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to ease the language requirements for Danish and Swedish citizens seeking Norwegian citizenship in 2016 at the latest.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1731	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Greens have announced support for the suspension, and the Left and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. That means that all except the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1763	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government requests the removal of the foreign regulations § 8-8, so that the opportunity to grant limited residence permits for children between 16 and 18 years of age is removed.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop and implement screenings at all asylum recipients in order to detect the vulnerability of sociable asylum seekers.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1787	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up independent supervision in the receptions of lone minor asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up teams against trafficking in human beings that can detect victims and prevent children from being exposed to trafficking in human beings or recruited to criminal environments from reception.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1825	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Hans Fredrik Gravevan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and promote a roll-call notification with proposals for measures to improve road safety for cyclists and to ensure that the State’s cycling manual is revised and updated.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-15.ana.ud1486e1922	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
