ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e47	The representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Sverre Myrli, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, Helge Orten, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Siri A. Meling, Lene Wagslid, Ingvild Kjerkol, Jorodd Asphjell and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Oslo: Frode Helgerud and Peter N. Myhre For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Telemark County: Lise Wiik For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth The requested alternate of the State of Oppland, Kjersti Stenseng, has received an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget on the 18th and 19th October, under the leave of Mr Rigmor Aasrud, on grounds of sickness. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates, Even Alexander Hagen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget. The third alternate, Ragnar Nordgreen, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ragnar Nordgreen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e152	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e168	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e177	Norway has rich shipping traditions that go back centuries. Despite being a small country, we are a great force on the sea. This is a position we've been working through, among other things. to be at the forefront of technology. The Norwegian maritime industry is among the world's leading environments in the development of environmentally friendly maritime technology, because we have a high level of competence, high quality and a complete maritime cluster that has been committed over a long period of time. It is vital to ensure the climate and the environment that we are able to develop new environmentally friendly technologies and concepts. The maritime industry in Norway is well equipped for this task, but good interaction with the public is also needed. We therefore need good cooperation between the authorities and industry, and we need clear signals from the Stortinget. This setting by the Committee is, unfortunately, somewhat unfair, with many proposals in which some are almost identical. I believe the entire committee agrees that we want a maritime industry that is ahead of the climate and the environment, and then it is regrettable that it is not possible to work together on proposals that can be supported as much as possible. It is more important for efforts to reduce emissions that we have good and reworked proposals with the widest possible support than low-performing ones. This setting has the most recent effect. Shipping is a future industry that will become more important and important in a globalised world. The potential for emissions reduction is also high. It is gratifying to see that the industry itself is taking a leading role in many areas and is taking climate change seriously through new technologies and offensive initiatives. Norway has been a major shipping act for many years, and the maritime industry in Norway shall be a pioneer in green shipping. Then the Storting must also be there to show the way. Finally, I would like to address the proposals where the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e192	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e197	I would like to commend the rapporteur's mention of the maritime industry and the many opportunities offered by maritime knowledge, and not least of how important that industry will be towards a low-carbon society. We've discussed the climate challenges and ambitious climate goals a number of times in the Biggest in recent years, and I think the Biggest is now very much in agreement with the fact that what's ahead of us to achieve the goals is ambitious. It requires that we look at any sector – what opportunities, what knowledge lies there to develop new technologies and provide new opportunities. The maritime industry is undoubtedly such an industry. It's a complete food chain, a complete knowledge cluster, that can contribute a lot. We have previously discussed the maritime industry several times in Stortinget, not least linked to the electrification of ferries. I think it is a pity that the Stortinget has not gone beyond what the Stortinget has done through its decisions in the form of instructions to the government to contribute to the fact that the ferry routes that can be electrified had been electrified as quickly as possible. Now, on the basis of the proposals promoted by the Left, we are in a bit of the same problem. How far are we going, and how far are we going to challenge the knowledge of the industry? What do we think can happen in connection with knowledge also playing with active authorities involved in designing possible action packages? That's really what this issue is about, and that's where the committee differs in a majority and a minority – which is a little smaller, but which may turn in the course of this debate ahead of voting in the big room. When the Workers’ Party votes in favour of the proposal contained in II, this being so that ‘The Storting asks the Government to present a package of measures to help Norway develop and deliver zero-emission ships for all ship types by 2030’, we are agreed that it is demanding, it is ambitious and it may not be fully achievable. We believe, however, that it would be right that we challenge our opportunities and the authorities in our interaction with the industry, and look at what we can deliver as much as we can. That's what we think that proposal is up to, and we think that we have a good prerequisite to succeed in just that. But the prerequisite for success is that governments also take an active role in interaction with industry, create tools that develop knowledge, challenge research, create innovation and new technologies, and through it also underpin our future opportunities. I think what is now the committee's recommendation to the Stortinget is a good recommendation, and I believe that we have an obligation to exploit the knowledge of the maritime industry as well as possible on the road to the low-carbon society. Then I think the proposal for Decision II is correct. In this respect, in proposing a turnover requirement for the use of sustainable biofuels in shipping, we also believe that it is now natural to take steps in this direction. So the committee position that exists, I think, is logical, it challenges, and it is really very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e215	Green shipping is one of five areas of government's climate policy. I am therefore pleased with this proposal from the Left, which provides an opportunity to talk about developments that are now taking place. The reason for the choice of shipping as a contribution to climate policy is that Norway has been and is a maritime major act. The good interaction between shipping companies, shipyards, equipment providers and maritime services has made the Norwegian industry world leader in many areas. Norway has a long history that shows that we have always been in the forefront of developing new solutions in shipping. We're still doing that when we're first out with LNG-powered cargo ships, elf ferries and hybrid ships, and we're getting ready for shore-side power in several ports. The rapid route is even built into hybrid operations in order to better meet the requirements to be able to walk in vulnerable environments, such as: around Svalbard. In addition, several of the ships are converted to shore-side electricity. The government is pursuing an offensive policy to make Norwegian shipping greener and more environmentally friendly. It concerns playing with industry to develop environmental and climate technologies and to make this a requirement, in order to strengthen the industry's ability to take leading positions in the international market. The size decided at the latest in the spring of the Energy Communication that future holiday offers should have low- and zero-emission technology requirements when the technology so requires. We see that the county councils are following closely the national objectives in their bids for county road ferries, and show among others. to Hordaland County, now receiving 133 million. kr in aid for rural installations providing electricity and hybrid ferries. Here the public provides infrastructure and imposes strict emission requirements. And then it's going to be up to offering what solutions they want to choose. Public procurement is a major source of transport services, including at sea. The law on procurement must not prevent the most environmentally friendly solutions from being developed. Therefore, in June, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Government Procurement Act requiring state, county and municipal authorities to set up their procurement practices to help reduce harmful environmental impacts and promote climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate. It shall be easier to enter into interoperable contracts that better facilitate the provider’s contribution to its experience and competence in finding the best solutions with the order. In the processing of the Energy Communication, the Government was also given the task of facilitating the development and application of zero- and low-emission technology by 2030 of supply-up clothing operating on Norwegian base. Shipping is a completely globalised industry and it is therefore important that Norwegian regulations do not disqualify Norwegian operators. Ambitious zero visions must not impede the development of new, more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions that contribute to the reduction of emissions on the road towards zero emissions. The ship's fleet has a long life span, and we need time to replace existing fleets. There is reason to recall that the government has put forward a strategy to stimulate growth for the Norwegian maritime industry and increase the use of environmentally friendly technologies and fuels. The strategy includes, inter alia: a ship wreck scheme, a comprehensive plan for increased shore-side electricity in Norwegian ports and the continuation of the NOX agreement after 2017. The government also aims to facilitate the availability of LNG as a fuel and at the same time see that hydrogen can become a good alternative in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e231	Finally, a small explanation of vote: the right will vote in favour of the proposal for Decision I on a marketing requirement for biofuels. However, it is worth recalling that the shortage of sustainable advanced biofuels suggests that we believe that any sales requirement needs to be carefully considered. That also means that we draw proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e234	We must recognise that a number of the issues we are discussing in today's setting have also been related to the energy message that was addressed earlier – in ours. As such, one might ask: Why a custom setting? I choose to interpret the setting in such a way that it underlines the Storting's desire and willingness to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the maritime sector. I would also like to say that the vote shows the willingness to try to do so, through a number of proposals in various areas, which complement what we have previously decided on in the Stortinget, among others. on public procurement issues in the maritime sector. It may also be recognised by the majority in the vote that the challenges are slightly different, whether they relate to the fishing fleet, the coastal fleet, the supply line or international shipping, and this is also reflected in the vote. I think that's good. We have come a long way in Norway as regards the development of low-emission and zero-emission ships, and not least the industry has shown a great willingness to change technology. At all, there is an industry that has the will and ability to change technology, and it has also shown itself very technology-optimistic in this area. At the same time, I think one should recognise that the investments made in the maritime industry are long-term, and they are also large, and that means that the industry needs a certain degree of safety and stability in order to dare to carry out some of the changes that need to be made. Therefore, cooperation between the State and industry is important – in order to create the security, the framework, the stability that the industry needs for its own technology development. There is also a background for the majority today asking the government to come back with proposals to help Norway develop and deliver zero-emission ships. In addition to technological developments, I would like to point out that regulatory measures should also be reviewed. The thresholds which may prevent, for example: land flow and shore-side electricity development need to be removed, and the review and possibly amendment of the Ports Act is therefore a proposal on which the Centre Party has chosen to participate. It is also the view of the Central Party that the transition in the maritime sector must be encouraged by advantages, such as: charging lights on ships built with zero and low-emission technologies. It is a strategy we have chosen for other parts of the transport sector, which I believe has been very successful, and which one should also be able to go further in the maritime sector. The same applies also, as previous speakers have mentioned, to marketing requirements for the use of sustainable biofuels. I understand that there are some objections from the government parties in that regard, but I believe that creating the market needed for sustainable biofuels will lead to more second-generation biofuels, which are applicable, sustainable and environmentally friendly, being used in these sectors. That is why it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e245	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e250	Yes, I'm addressing proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e255	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e261	As others have mentioned, we have every reason to be proud of the Norwegian shipping industry, and the maritime sector is an area that is really in the forefront of thinking new to get a green shift. Still, we're going to achieve the goal we've set to reduce emissions by 40 pst. up to 2030 and continue the reduction towards the future, all sectors must contribute, and today shipping has emissions of approximately 9 pst. of Norwegian emissions. But we also need to remember that it is not just about emissions. Maritime transport — using the sea and maritime transport — is the most environmentally friendly way of transporting goods, so focusing on getting goods from the road and over by sea is an independent point that is important. However, we also need to develop future ships with zero and low-carbon technologies – both because it is important to be in the front and lead to international, and because it will provide a domestic market that will give Norwegian industry an advantage when it is going out and competing internationally. It requires targeted efforts from both industry itself and the public to achieve this. Two measures are particularly helpful. One is, of course, having shore-side electricity, as the Committee also mentioned in the Energy Communication, where we asked that there should be a reinforced effort to use shore-side electricity. This must also be central to the order and the agreement to be made with Enova next year. The second is to get more environmentally friendly fuels, both by looking at the possibility of blending biofuels – now it seems to be a unanimous committee in favour of I in the setting, and that is good – and by looking at the possibilities of developing both electrical solutions, which we have been given in the case of ferries, expanding this with fuel cells, and the possibility of using fast-moving vessels, and the possibility of different hybrid solutions. Gas operations and the potential for biogas in that sector are also important for development. In the proposal, we have highlighted three areas in particular. One is passenger traffic and ferries. In the past, the Committee has had cases in which we have clearly asked for all new ferry offers to be subject to low and zero emissions. At least from the left we are satisfied with the follow-up that is now being done at the State Road Service to get it done. So I think everyone is aware that we need to have an interaction and a cooperation with the states in order to roll out the possibilities and the potential that are in order to get zero emission ferries and more electric ferries. The other area we've taken up is offshore supply ships and the possibility of getting a more environmentally friendly supply tray. It has also mentioned earlier, in the context of the Energy Communication, where we have asked the government to facilitate the development and application of zero- and low-emission technologies by 2030 of uplifting gear operating on Norwegian base. What the Left might wish for was that, in addition to getting a majority in this case, you should use the PUDs – using the requirements you have when operating in new fields – to set environmental requirements. Then you can discuss what environmental requirements and how quickly you need them, but that should be a natural part of the requirements and the rules you set for new fields, we think are right. It's a shame it doesn't get a majority. Then, of course, that's what might be the hardest thing, the fishing fleet. It's difficult because it's an industry that has a lot of fuel expenditure, but at the same time we also have the alternatives there. Now we have the first example of hybrid operations of fishing vessels operating outside Troms and along the Finnmark coast. There, too, we need to initiate measures to ensure that we make the necessary transition over time. Finally, the commitment to research and pilot projects is crucial. I would like to make a explanation of vote: the left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, which will then have a wider majority in the Grand Duchy, and we will not support II.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e283	Let me start by saying a thousand thanks to the Left for promoting this proposal and giving us a new opportunity to take a round around something that – as Ola Elvestuen said – has been something that has regularly come up in the Energy and Environment Committee. I'll start with that rose. Then I'm going to give praise to the government, too, to follow up a previous request from Stortinget to make sure that we get hydrogen ferries and get tested out hydrogen ferries in Norway. I think it is good that the Council of State and the government have followed it up in the state budget. I think it was enough praise to the government in this round. But I'm not going to limit myself entirely, I'm going to say that I also think it is good that the Right Party and the Advance Party, the Government Parties, now choose to agree on what the rest of the Committee has agreed to propose a marketing requirement for the use of sustainable biofuels in the marine fuel. I just want to say one thing like that simple, that characterizes a logical flaw, in my opinion, in the thinking of the government parties around this. They say yes, but we don't have to do anything that we're not sure we're in place today, like. to impose requirements on sustainable biofuels. I also see that in the state budget there is a difficult discussion of whether we have enough sustainable biofuels today. But then I'll say the following: what is the business depending on in order to carry out the conversion? That industry depends on, is predictability and long-term, and in the case of biofuels, no one dares to invest in a Norwegian biofuel market until we are informed that we intend to impose requirements on the marketing of biofuels. Therefore, what we have to do, and what becomes my question to the Council of State, which I hope he will answer in his post, is the following: When does the government intend to follow up the decision of the Storting to implement a marketing requirement for the use of sustainable biofuels? If you come back to Stortinget with this next year and say that this is something we're going to demand in two years' time, then we give business the opportunity to change, make investments and all that is necessary to get to the green shift. The government's logic in proposing a budget to the Storting in the case of biofuels is to say, we don't quite know how much sustainable biofuels there are in the future, so we have to consider it further. But if you just keep evaluating and evaluating and evaluating, then you'll never get any business that dares to invest. It is only when we are able to set tough targets for the future that business will be able to make the necessary investment decisions. I would like to say the same thing on the issue of land flow, because we have raised a number of issues about land flow, and I would like to address the proposals that SV has, the proposals No. 8-12. There are proposals about shore-side electricity, where the problem is that one gets none of those who have offshore ships today to invest in shore-side electricity before they know that they actually have shore-side power in our ports. The problem is that the largest ports, Oslo and Bergen, which have the most calls, have not received support from the government's fund, from the Enova fund, for conversion to land power. The main ports with the main problems of air pollution have not received support from the government to invest in shore-side electricity. Before you get it in place, and before you have any security from the shipping companies for it, they won't invest either. And what's the problem with the ports? Well, the ports say: we don't dare to invest in shore-side power for offshore vessels until we know that offshore vessels will actually use them. Here's a classic problem of coordination, where the only reasonable thing to do is that the state goes in and says, "Here we make demands." From 2018 we should demand that supply ships to sail in Norwegian waters should be able to receive shore-side electricity. As of 2019, all cruise ships should have been able to do so. Then we give time for conversion, we give opportunities for the ports to get ready. But if you keep going the way the government is doing now, saying yes, we're going to give some support schemes and then we're going to have the market sorted out, you're actually not going to achieve goals, because you need state coordination to get this into port. We will vote in a subsidiary way for what is proposal No. 1 from the minority, which then seems to get a majority here. So I just want to point out one thing in the end when it comes to following up our decision on ferries. There are two things that are interesting about following up the implementation of zero-emission technologies. Governments have in the past been concerned that a good part of old technology is going to be scrapped. What we see is that there's a lot of technology being converted into zero-emission and low-emission solutions now. The second is that this is not a national target for all to be zero-emission ferries, it is a requirement set by the Storting. We ask the government to ensure that everything is zero-emission ferries – not just a national target.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e296	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e302	Thank you to the Left who has promoted a good Document 8 proposal and thus gave Stortinget the opportunity to raise the effort for green shipping a step forward, an opportunity that I do not think we have taken particularly good care of. As many have pointed out, there is a very broad consensus that in the Norwegian maritime industry – including shipping in all its deportations – there are very great opportunities for further Norwegian industry development that we need to use when producing new jobs, not least in those countries that lose the most jobs when the oil sector goes down. Moreover, – once again agreed by all – shipping is already relatively climate friendly in transporting goods and persons, and the potential to make it much more climate friendly. So here we all have possibilities. Then, of course, it is both good that the government's strategy, which has been launched in the past, implements some good measures and good that the parties at Stortinget are eager to propose new, good things. What's a little awkward, almost, on behalf of the Biggest, the Committee and the parties, is that to those degrees we are not able to agree on something that we say we agree on. What we conclude with after this delinquency treatment when voting today is not very useful for Norwegian maritime industry. There is a majority for one decision on blending biofuels and nothing else. I would say it is particularly thoughtful that we will not have a majority in favour of the proposal for Decision II, i.e. to ask the government to promote a package of measures that will help Norway to develop and deliver zero-emission ships for all types of ships by 2030 – a completely natural and logical objective that results from the commitments, together with the EU, to cut emissions in the transport sector strongly – and it is strange that the Stortinget is unable to agree on that. If I understood correctly, the Left also now went out of the proposal for Decision II that the Christian People's Party is already out of. The second half of the proposal for Decision II is to properly investigate and present a case — that is to say, very openly formulated — on how Norway can reduce its climate emissions from domestic shipping by a minimum of 40 pst. by 2030. This is a repetition of the goal we have already committed ourselves to as a nation in cooperation with the EU. It does not get a majority when we try to operate it in a very important sector, namely the shipping sector. It's strange, and it's a bad signal from the Storting about what we really want to achieve the goals we've set and adopted. There is no lack of other such signals in the budget debate that is going on around us these days, that the majority's willingness to implement clear climate commitments assumed is mildly said Daff. The Green Party, together with several other party constellations, has helped to promote a number of concrete proposals. They have been mentioned by several other parties. We believe that making concrete demands on technology, on the arrival of shore-side electricity, on the inclusion of sustainable biodiesel and similar measures is absolutely necessary to point out direction and to provide industry with safety so that this is the way it comes. As we all know, this particular industry – shipping – is innovative. They're clear, they'll do it if they get a message, but they don't get a clear enough message in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e312	So a short explanation of vote on the proposal for a majority decision, namely on marketing requirements for the use of sustainable biofuels in the fuel. It is necessary, but there is also something we should be very aware of, and there I agree with the government. This is not a major solution for Norwegian transport and the Norwegian shipping industry. The major solutions are within zero emissions and within energy types other than over unilateral use of biological fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e315	This is an important debate on an important topic. I'm glad that the Storting again travels the subject to discussion here, because it shows an eagerness to do things. This is about how to develop one of our most important industries — historically absolutely one of our most important industries — one of the most complete industries we have, perhaps even more complete than the oil and gas industries. Because when it comes to shipping, we have everything in Norway. We have shipping companies, we have shipyards, we have equipment suppliers, we have insurance companies, we have finance banks – yes, on all sides of the table it is Norwegian competence that will be important to contribute to a green shift. But it is also important that we work with this industry, that we make sure that the decisions taken in the Storting, that the policy that the government is to pursue strengthens the cluster and does not create detours, costs, which make it difficult to be competitive. I think the Storting here is making good decisions that we're looking forward to following on. We have had good results in Norway over a long time on various environmental technologies. We've come a long way in implementing electric car technology. Unfortunately, we have not been able to develop many industrial jobs as a result of the electric cars. There are largely imported technologies, although manufacturers of charging equipment and the like. can show success. On the other hand, we can get a lot more jobs, it looks like, based on what we do in maritime nutrition, and that makes it extra exciting. Here it's not imported technology, here's what we're doing ourselves, that we can deliver to others, and then it's also an advantage if we've demonstrated that technology works at home. When someone now criticises that these are proposals that do not require us to be able to deliver zero-emission technologies on all ship types, I believe it would be quite difficult to impose on the Norwegian shipyard industry. Norwegian shipyards don't build big supertankers. They do not build container ships that can take thousands — yes, tens of thousands — of containers, nor build a number of other types of maritime vessels. If we had been as square as anyone suggests, new demands would have been made to develop ship types that we would never make money to deliver equipment to, because there are others who are specialists. We have to look at how we can ensure that Norwegian industry develops a technology that others also use, but that this will be a global promise, and not just a Norwegian promise. Then we also have to remember in this debate that a lot is already happening. When someone is disappointed that more than one request decision is not adopted, it should not be forgotten that much has already been adopted, both in previous representatives' proposals and at the initiative of the government. From the government's side, green shipping is one of our main areas of activity. Our government platform says that we want it to be put into use as soon as it is available in the market, low-emission and zero-emission technologies. We have to remember that through the state road system several river ferries are now being built because we're going to have it on ferry routes. The state road system has started the development of hydrogen ferries. New ferries that can only run on either LNG, biodiesel or electricity, i.e. not traditional technologies, are to be used in the Bokenfjord. The fast route shows that they also support here – they have ordered up to four hybrid ships. The Coastal Plant re-orders that they have previously had on normal technology. Now it's going to be battery, hybrid or biodiesel. When I traveled along the whole coast this summer, I met a number of shipping companies, ports and technology environments that are making this promise. They are not just waiting for the Storting to make new decisions because they already have a market that is so interesting that they are on the move. Then it's important that we also support this financially. State funds have already come to support the development of green shipping technology. There has been money to support the confederation of existing ships in order to be able to build new ones. There is a reduced electricity charge on shore-side electricity; there are now aid schemes for goods from road to sea. There are support schemes for rural power plants and Enova has received a record increase in appropriations in recent years. We have said from the state that when one has environmental technology on board, there must be a discount on the ransom tax. It testifies that there are already a number of instruments, and let's not debate this as if you're starting to think about green shipping for the first time. This has been done for a long time, in this government and in previous governments. The shipping industry and the yard industry show that they will follow up. We would like to try to support this as we see new technology coming into place, so that Norway is the leader in this. But saying that Norwegian shipyards should be able to do everything, I think I'm going to impose on them tasks that they themselves wouldn't be interested in delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e341	I agree with the Council of State that Norwegian maritime industry is very valuable to us, and that it can contribute a lot of positive development in the future. What is then the premise is that the yard industry and the maritime industry in Norway strengthen it – to say – the national competence in the industry. The proposal that is most likely to be adopted today states that one should ‘return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with instruments that can stimulate order volume growth’. How does the Council of State assess this? We know that the Enova support, which is provided for, among others. the development of technology, goes to the shipowners. Whether the shipowners choose a foreign yard or a Norwegian yard, it does not matter. But the Council of State, if this proposal, which is proposal No. Is it decided that the quantity of orders will then be increased by Norwegian courts and that the instruments will be specifically targeted at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e348	We want to invest in Norway. We want both to invest in infrastructure and to support Norwegian business. The government has pursued an active policy for this. What is important when we provide support schemes is also to look at the types of jobs that can come to Norway. There are some rules that we can be very selective in terms of, and then there are other rules in which the State is in, where we have to comply with tendering legislation that the State cannot give priority to Norwegian shipyards. That's why it's important to have a job with technology development, etc. to Norwegian environments, in which case one can assume that competence remains in Norway and does not disappear from the country. So it's a little bit dependent on the level at which the support comes, the extent to which we can control it. However, we have already seen that much of what we have provided from support so far has resulted in jobs just in Norway. That's what we want to keep going. I registered that the Labour Party in the election campaign promised 50 million. kr for environmentally friendly ferries in the counties, so we've given over 250 million. kr in 2016 for that purpose. It increases the chances of creating jobs, but not least it will reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e355	I ask again: will the instruments that the Council of State might think about, which will be promoted in an appropriate way for Stortinget, go specifically to support knowledge building, technology development, innovation at Norwegian shipyards, and will the instruments be geared towards it? He now fails to answer that very question and expounds that the government has prioritised such and such, but the reality is that Norwegian shipyards today feel that the aid that is designed for low-emission and zero-emissions actually ends up in projects by yards that are not along the Norwegian coast. That is why my question is very specific: will the Council of State contribute to the support of technology, innovation and growth in Norwegian shipyards by the appropriate means provided to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e362	As I just said, it has been the purpose of the policy of the government, precisely to support the technological development of Norwegian shipyards in Norwegian clusters. That shouldn't be a surprise. As I think is also known, the government has said that one should make an extra effort for, for example. The Marine, where one would also point to Norwegian shipyards in doing that job. So it's like this, which I think the Workers' Party is familiar with, that there's a limit on what types of tenders you can direct to Norwegian shipyards, and what types of tenders are going to be in the open market. There has been a policy that has also been pursued by the Workers' Party. I'm a little surprised if the representative doesn't recognize it. However, with regard to the whole of the green technology effort, through the condensation system, through the development of hydrogen ferries, which the State Road Administration is now about to launch, the underlying approach of today's government is, of course, to create jobs and growth in Norwegian business. It's been a wish, we've seen results of, and that's something we'll work on in the future. But it is an objective that we should build this country through the means we use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e369	I don't think the council answers exactly enough. The proposal states that one should ‘stimulate increasing the volume of orders’. While the volume of orders is of interest in itself, in the context of zero emissions, possibly low emissions, in the future, it must be an objective in itself and perhaps one of the main driving forces for governments to set up instruments, in addition to bringing down greenhouse gas emissions, to increase Norwegian knowledge of Norwegian maritime industry competitiveness in the future. In fact, I now feel that the Council of State is unable to respond clearly. For this reason, the proposal that appears to be adopted should have included a desire to increase the volume of orders – or knowledge – even in Norwegian courts. But I hope, with the background of what the Council of State says, that he will actually challenge himself and his office on that very thing. But can the Council confirm that his ambition is to increase knowledge of the Norwegian maritime industry in the light of the instruments promoted by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e375	I hope for the rest when a reader reads the minutes from this round, that I have said the same thing in the previous two answers, that yes, that is the whole purpose. The aim is, in fact, to strengthen Norwegian maritime clusters, to ensure that we strengthen our competitiveness, and that we also have to have experience. I mentioned in my post that one of the points is that one has to demonstrate the technology at home in order to reach a larger market abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e379	I think it is a little strange that, in the post-debate debate, we experience that the Workers' Party is approaching this and other policy areas as if nothing has happened, as if there has been a vacuum until the question is asked, despite the fact that, through budgetary decisions and despite the fact that we can demonstrate, through other major debates, that much has been done. It's a little strange that if we talk about it here, it's important that we stand together politically to strengthen a Norwegian cluster, can't have enough political memory to remember what's been debated a month ago or a year ago, and bring it all together. So yes, the whole purpose of the government's policy, the whole purpose, I see, with the majority's decision, is that we should strengthen Norwegian maritime clusters and the Norwegian shipyards through the development of technology that is competitive and has a market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e383	The Christian People's Party is involved in promoting a proposal to have lower rates of port and fairway for environmentally friendly ships. The government is busy using carrots and not whips in many ways. Would this proposal not be a good way to stimulate zero- and low-emission vessels by giving this precedence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e388	I agree that reducing taxes is a good way to stimulate the market to use more environmentally friendly technologies. Therefore, the government has already made sure that electricity charges for shore-side electricity plants are reduced. Here we have cooperated very well with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have also made sure that it is a discount on the ransom tax that ships get if they have environmental technologies. In the case of port charges, charges are often fully managed by the individual port and should initially be for the payment of costs. I'm a little skeptical that we're going to impose on them the kind of tax cuts if we don't see what consequences it has for the operation of the port, so that one doesn't get red numbers. There is nothing today that prevents the ports from implementing that kind of environmental action, but in order to make it a universal system for everyone, I would be a little safer at what possible negative consequences it would have before recommending it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e397	The Council of State is right in saying that much is happening in the maritime sector in Norway. We're doing things here to countries that nobody else really does, and with a level of ambition that's good. Governments were concerned with many of the measures available for zero-emission ferries. To my question, as I said, we have raised this many times earlier, both in proposals, in budgetary cooperation and during the budgetary procedure. In the context of this year’s budget, the Left, Christian People’s Party and the Government Parties adopted a verbal proposal in which we ‘ask the Government to draw up requirements or take action to ensure that all new ferries, scheduled vessels use low- or zero-emission technology when the technology so requires’. [[...]] [[...]] They say a lot about ferries, but shipping boats, i.e. the speedboats along the coast, pollute a lot. What measures have the Council of State taken to bring about a change and follow up the request decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e406	It's an area that's more under state governments than me. We would like to contribute to providing an overview of it in writing, but I do not feel competent to take it here, just because it is not in the area we have worked. But in the area we have worked – with the State Road Service and the ferry routes, that's why I'm talking to a little more heavily about it – we see that on the ferry routes that have such a short character that one can have battery technology that one knows takes one on both sides, with charging systems on both sides, we demand it. We have also seen – as I mentioned – that hydrogen ferry development is taking place, just to take those steps further. But it's a race that takes a few years. At the same time, we know that there are some sections that are today so long and so demanding weather conditions, for example. Boknafjorden and Björnafjorden, that we do not believe that it is proper to demand pure battery technology. But having a combination where one likes to look at hybrid technologies with biodiesel e.l. at the bottom, we think is a good step from the technology that's going on today. So I would like to provide written information on the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e417	A lot is happening, says the Council of State. Yes, that's right, but what characterizes what's happening is that a good part of the nutritionists miss the fact that the state is on the track to make clear demands. Let me do two examples: The Hurtigruten – that State Council – is now investing in several facilities that provide for the possibility of receiving shore-side electricity, but the Hurtigruten said last summer that they have put several of their upgrades to shore-side watercourses on ice, because they do not receive the response from the State to the ports they want, namely a clarification that the construction of facilities will be supported, which makes the investments profitable along the coast. The second is Eidesvik, who invested a lot of gas, who said: We expect that we are more environmentally friendly, to give us an advantage in the competition for commissions on the Norwegian base. The answer is: No, it does not, because they are a little bit more expensive, and the state does not demand environmental technology for supplies to the supply chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e426	For example: land-based power plants, which he took up when it came to the Hurtigruten, are currently more land-based power plants than ever before. This means that there is a development here, and Enova has more resources to deploy shore-based power plants than they've ever had before. At the same time, I actually thought we agreed in this room that, in terms of where the land power plants are to be built, it is the professional competence of Enova that will contribute to it, not after political direction from the Stortinget directly or from the government directly. What the representative Eidsvoll Holmås really argues for in the criticism he has against the government is that it is the government that should point out that the Hurtigruten has a advantage when Enova will deal with all his applications, and said that the Hurtigruten will get fulfilled all his wishes. I understand that it would have been interesting – I have recently met with Hurtigruten where this was a theme. But I still don't think it's smart that we politicians should go in and out of control what we've actually said up until now is supposed to be a professional recommendation, namely that Enova should have the role of allocating money and making sure that we build up to the maximum benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e435	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e442	We have a business life and a maritime cluster that has over time demonstrated great adaptability and innovativeness, and which has been early out to implement new and more environmentally friendly technologies, such as: LNG and river ferries. At the same time, shipping companies, shipyards and suppliers have been in the front and have developed more energy efficient hulls and propellers, simply because they pay off. It is these companies that will also be essential for us to achieve the objective of zero emissions in the ship's fleet. The proposers want a separate package of measures for this purpose, but the package of measures is already in place to a large extent and has been reinforced by both the government and cooperation parties in each budget. Never has the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Enova had bigger muscles to stimulate the development of new environmental technologies and to facilitate the infrastructure needed. There are good schemes with good access to money that companies can apply for. Having a good project, I would be very surprised if it was not supported by the instrument. In addition, a ship mastering system is in place to contribute to an increased rate of replacement, in particular in the short-sea fleet. Land electricity is another measure, which has been mentioned earlier today: it is possible to apply for funds through Enova and several ports have been allocated. At the latest this spring, it was allocated 82 million. SEK to 13 ports. Priority should be given to those ports where the impact is greatest. It is not certain that it is cost-effective to provide this in all ports, in particular where there is a high cost to the infrastructure of the port and where the traffic base is low. Then there might be other solutions that are equally relevant. As a public authority, we ourselves have an important role as a major buyer of e.g. ferry and fast boat services. When new tenders are rolled out, more stringent emission requirements are imposed. It was, for example: recently awarded a contract from Anda-Lote with zero emission solutions. A development project for hydrogen ferries has been announced in the 2017 state budget. In order to make it more attractive for the county to impose zero emissions, a separate system is in place to strengthen the competence of both the county and shipping companies, while Enova provides significant subsidies to charging infrastructure. For example, Hordaland County Municipality and More and Romesdal County Municipality have received a total commitment of between 300 and 400 million. kr for this purpose. At the same time, we must not forget that shipping is the dominant mode of freight transport, with good environmental impact measured against the option, and that more measures have been taken to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. The fee has been reduced by more than 100 million. kr, an improved system of certificates is in place, environmental-differentiated unloading charges are established and significant investments are being made in the fairway to enhance maritime safety. And the 2017 budget also proposes a subsidy scheme for getting more goods from road to sea. It happens very well, but it can certainly happen even much more. We will continue to strengthen these arrangements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e459	At first, I'm a little surprised that the left is pulling itself out of its own proposal. That might mean that the Left with this wants to give a signal to the Storting that approaching the Left proposal below in a constructive way is actually a little unnecessary, so I'm a little surprised at it. But I'm going to leave it, because we're going to vote primarily for the vote, as it stands, and then we're going to consider subsidiary voting for what's proposal No. 1 afterwards. But there are some issues related to it. I want to start with the fact that the committee was visiting the Fiskarstrand Verft for some time. There we had an interesting meeting with CEO Rolf Fiskarstrand. We asked the question: How will Norwegian shipyards in the future win the tough competition? He had one single response to the committee: Still tough technology requirements – technology requirements that other countries' competence in the maritime industry cannot meet. That's the message. And what's happening now? There is a proposal in the vote, as it now stands: ‘The government is asking the government to present a package of measures to help Norway develop and deliver zero-emission ships for all ship types by 2030.’ I agree with the Council of State – it may be rather ambitious to believe that we should be able to deliver on all ships, but I believe that Norwegian knowledge can contribute to technology in all ship types. But in the proposal that now seems to be adopted, and on which the left has jumped, it says: put forward appropriate instruments that can stimulate an increase in order quantity, without any encumbrances. I don't think Norwegian shipyards and the maritime knowledge basically shouts hallelujah for that change from the left, because there are no assumptions there in relation to it. Earlier this year, I have asked the Minister of Oil and Energy whether he is interested in changing the Enova facility, which goes to the shipowners, and not to the projects and knowledge in Norway, but who may follow the shipowners out of the country to build ships out. We have to ask ourselves the question: is there Norwegian knowledge, the Norwegian maritime cluster, we need to strengthen further work when we now give signals that we are going to spend a lot of money on this? I think it is stupid if the Stortinget is not clear that it is the Norwegian knowledge and the Norwegian industries that we initially want to substantiate. The next part of the proposal — which is also a bit strange that the Left is jumping off — is that one actually wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in short sea shipping by 40 pst. Because it's something that goes along the Norwegian coast, and which basically has a great need for replacement in more modern technology, it's the shortship that actually rolls and goes there. It needs renewal, and that signal would have been fine if the Stortinge gave. So I'm amazed at the great crowd, and I'm amazed at the Left, who jumps off his own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e483	Let me just start by saying that I agree with Terje Aasland – I think it is disappointing that the Left is jumping off a proposal that makes national demands for sectoral emission cuts. What we have done on the climate side, through that link with the EU, is that the Left was involved in abolishing all national targets for emissions reduction by 2030. It would be good if we set clear sectorial targets, and it's stupid that it was dropped off the left hand side now. Let me still spend most of the time on what the government says, because I think it's interesting to listen to Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Of course, it is good if Ketil Solvik-Olsen listens to me when I speak – I will speak for the record, since Ketil Solvik-Olsen does not listen. Let me say the following: it's a perfectly obvious problem that the Storting has decided that we want a plan to roll out land-based power plants. Then Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government come back and say, "We're not going to have a plan, we're going to do a market research." And when I point out that when you have concrete nutritionists who come forward and say that they would like to make an effort and contribute to land-flow development, State Council Ketil Solvik-Olsen says: well, here we see that SV wants to regulate in detail. I thought that a little bit of a joke about the government sending out clear orders – that is, when you want a land-flow development, you also have to send clear orders on what you want. The government was out there and said that now we're going to do something about air quality around those cities, and that's why we're going to bet on shore-side electricity, but there were no leads in the land-flow resources that Enova allocated, or the orders that were made to Enova, that it should be seen in particular in the air quality of the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e493	The two cities with the largest tonnage, which Helge Orten was in here in the past, have not received support for shore-side power plants, because they have only seen kilowatt-hours – kronor per kWt. You haven't looked at who has the largest tonnage, what's strategically important, or what's going to be the most important thing to take care of, for example. to develop an offer to the Hurtigruten, which is on a route – we can still the clock after it, it goes up and down along the coast. We know that it goes there, and making provision for shore-side electricity infrastructure will be something that gives lasting emission reductions. There you don't do that, and there we see very clearly how the government is not going to follow up the Storting's clear decision, where we say that we want a plan to roll this out, while the government takes a step back and says that we don't want to regulate in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e497	Firstly, I think it is amazing that SV criticises the Left for not having clear targets in climate policy, SV who are just voting against our cooperation with the rest of Europe in order to reduce our emissions. The fact that we have EU cooperation is precisely the basis for implementing the emissions that we are now committed to, that we come out of a situation where decisions are taken as in previous climate agreements – which have become a series of measures more than clear commitments that lead to significant cuts. Then I have to say from the left, which has taken the initiative in this matter, that I am well pleased that you now get two majority. A consensus is reached on the marketing requirements for biofuels also in shipping, and a majority is given in order to return – not with action plan, but in an appropriate way, with the means to increase the volume of orders in order to contribute to the development of more low- and zero-emission solutions. It's not like that, that Terje Aasland thought, that this is a majority that's being established on the Stortinget now. This is a majority who were already there in committee, because the majority of the committee is different from the plenary. On the left hand side, we're pleased that this is now getting a majority. Then you might disagree with our opinion, that we are going directly for it instead of voting subsidiaryly, but I hope that there are several parties who are voting in a subsidiary vote, so that what becomes the second decision also gets a broad agreement in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e509	It is very good that there will be such a good debate on a topic as important as this is. During the debate, I feel the need to be able to clarify and perhaps explain some of the things that have come up from some of the representatives, and I hope that you are aware of – in case it is not possible to repeat it from the pulpit. In these days, Enova is dealing with a new application round dealing with land-based power plants. Enova, when it comes to facilitating land-based power plants, has been very clear that it is necessary to take into account the issues that may not yet be resolved – that in fact, you have the opportunities, the technology and the solutions, so that you get the best possible way. The high-speed route has been clear that it is desirable to facilitate shore-side electricity in ports with the longest lay-off time, which is about cost-benefit effects. Personally, as a representative of Sør-Trøndelag, I have great expectations of the application that now lies within Trondheim Havn to facilitate land flow in Trondheim, which is one of the ports where Hurtigruten has the longest lay time. A shore-side power plant plan has also been requested. Then, once again, I have to be allowed to refer to the maritime strategy presented by the government. It is precisely requested that a land-based power plant plan be established. There have also been questions about speedboats. Very familiar it has not been a quick boat purchase by the state, it is the county municipalities that have these. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the county councils for being quite so offensive in the last few years. I will once again give some praise to the Brothers Aa in the Gloppe, who have produced quite a few of the speedboats that have won tenders. Among other things, the carbon hulls make you get a much lighter boat, a more navigable boat and not least a much lower fuel consumption than what has been the case before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e521	There is a lot of good happening precisely because there has been a clear and offensive order in many areas – not only what has been in the state portfolio, but also what is happening in the county municipalities and in the public transport around our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e524	The size decides what the Storting does, and the government will follow up the decisions of the Stortinget, regardless of what kind of plurality stands behind them. To clarify that discussion the Workers' Party is now trying for the fourth time to go up, for which I do not think it is the basis, I would say: Today's government has over three years shown that we are going to build this country, we are going to create jobs, we are going to strengthen Norwegian business and we are going to strengthen Norwegian ownership. We maintain the infrastructure where it has expired earlier. In the same way, we want to contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian shipbuilding, Norwegian shipping, Norwegian shipping. We see that some actors complain that the Norwegian seafarer is getting too good framework conditions now through the changes proposed by the government in the 2017 state budget. I think they're the most necessary. There is no reason to doubt that when what is now a majority for proposal No. 1 has the goal of stimulating the increase in order quantities in Norwegian shipyards, is what the government is going to do. It's going to be completely in line with the thoughts the government has had around a lot of other things we've done, like, among other things. became visible a couple of weeks ago when we are now to have new ships for the Defense, we are to have them built in the Norwegian yard. There's no policy change there. On the contrary, good politics is in line with the way the government thinks. In fact, it is somewhat in contrast to the proposal that the Workers' Party has argued here, where it has not been stated that this should be a ship built in Norwegian shipyards, where it has not been an objective to increase the volume of orders, but which has said that Norwegian shipyards should be able to provide zero-emission ships for all ship types by 2030. We have to deal with what the Storing has actually decided if the government is to be able to follow it up in a good way. What the Workers' Party has argued for is that we should help Norway develop and deliver zero-emission ships for all ship types by 2030. It doesn't just mean big oil tankers, super tankers, Suezmax, dry-bulk ships that are supposed to be able to go through the Panama Canal. These are ship types that Norwegian shipyards have not built for many years — yes, many decades — and some of them we have never built before. I do not understand why we are going to enable Norwegian shipyards to develop different ship types as they themselves say Norway has no profit in developing because the labour force is too expensive. What Norwegian shipyards have pointed out, on the other hand, is that one must ensure that a developed, technologically heavy ship with values on board far higher than the value of the steel. That's where Norwegian shipyards are going to evolve, that's where we're going to fight to create jobs. That's where we're actually going to secure our future. I then think that the proposal now available for majority voting is much better aimed at caring for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry and caring for Norwegian technology environments. I will promise that the government will be eager to work to comply with the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e535	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e540	If the Council of State had heard after I had made my statement, he would have heard that I had elaborated what we had in that proposal for a decision in the committee's position on the Storting regarding matters. When I'm concerned about the government's willingness to support Norwegian technology development, Norwegian innovation, Norwegian knowledge building in the maritime industry, I'm actually referring to a response from the Minister of Oil and Energy, who has now also entered the Chamber, from 29 June, where I address problems with Enova's support for electric ferries going to the shipowner and as it goes out of the country. He is not at all concerned, does not raise any problems related to it, and says that Enova is managed only at an overall level. That is the starting point for my concern. Then we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1, but we reserve the right to assess the instruments being promoted, whether they actually underpin Norwegian knowledge, technology and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e549	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e555	The Council of State just said that he would follow up all the decisions of the Stortinget, regardless of the parties behind them. I would like to stress that the Council of State and the Government have not even followed up decisions that the government's own parties are behind. When we took the decisions over a year or a half ago, on river ferries, zero-emission ferries, we clearly said that the government was to ensure that all ferry offers and boat offers were based on zero and low-emission offers where technology allowed it. The government has done nothing to ensure that it does. They've supported that more people do it, but they haven't made sure it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e559	The second is that, in the same setting, the Committee made it clear that natural gas was not a low- and zero-emission technology. Nevertheless, the government has announced tenders for which natural gas is one of the permitted solutions. So the government and the government don't follow up what the Storting has decided on in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e562	Since many of the representatives, especially from the opposition parties, have been talking about Enova, I find reason to make some clarifications. I want to start by saying that, together with the Minister of Transport, the rest of the government and the cooperation parties in Stortinget, I am happy to point out that Enovas and the authorities' work on stimulating lower greenhouse gas emissions, more renewable energy use in the transport sector during this government has been greatly increased. Enova is currently spending far more money on electrification and on using renewable energy and reducing fuel consumption in the transport sector than Transnova has ever used under the red-green government. It makes it possible to bet on replacing fossil energy in cars and not least on the maritime side. The Enova agreement that was concluded under the red-green government, I have to remember, points out that in order to be qualified to get Enova funds, you have to be registered in the NOR or NIS register or have activity on a Norwegian base. In this context, it is theoretically possible to use suppliers outside Norway as well. As far as one of the big investments is concerned, we know that technology developed in Norway, but owned by Germany, is fundamental to success. Siemens is an example of a company that has come a long way, but has very many of its very best people in all-electrical and partial electric propulsion located on Norwegian soil – in other words: creating activity, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian tax revenues. The great bet, the great award from Enova has gone to the Hurtigruten. I may be incapacitated since I was born in the Vesterålen, but I have to say that Hurtigruten must be one of the Norwegian most we have, and we also know that very many of the suppliers who are going to work with Hurtigruten are going to be Norwegian suppliers. That's good. The second major effort is to enable the whole electric and partial electric operation of our shuttle. There are many ways in which this infrastructure must be located in Norway, which it also does since these ferries tend to go between two Norwegian ports. There is another major effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in Norway. So this government is going to negotiate a new agreement with Enova before Christmas. I am very pleased that we have had a good opportunity to discuss this in Stortinget. Of course, I am going to follow up on the leaders from the government parties and the cooperation parties from the energy reporting work, which Stortinget carried out before the summer. Of course, I will do so in close cooperation with the Minister of Transport and with the members of the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e578	I assume that the Minister of Oil and Energy has good memory. I asked a question on 20 June this year, which I was answered by the oil and energy minister on 29 June of the current year. I asked a question about the Enova support and how the Council of States believes that, if necessary, established mechanisms can help increase the competence and competitiveness of the maritime sector. The answer was inconclusive. Can the Council of State elaborate — because it is Enova who will be the important instrument in the development of technology in the maritime industry — how he sees that he will formulate himself in the mission letter to Enova, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e585	The letter of assignment for Enova is of course important. What is even more important when we now have a five-year agreement period with Enova that expires on 31 December 2016 is, of course, the new agreement with Enova, which will underpin the work of Enova. That's what's important about the ministry and I'm working on right now. We have told the Storting in the Energy Communication that we believe it is natural to increase the investment in the transport area in Enova. It has received broad support from a large majority in Stortinget. It will, of course, appear when a new agreement is to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e593	This Council of States also avoids concrete answers to the question. But initially, through this debate, one is concerned about whether the contributions and instruments should be fully neutral so that one can choose any supplier of knowledge and technology to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, or whether one should have an additional dimension to develop the maritime knowledge, technology and innovation opportunities. And then I ask again – on the basis of the answer I received on 29 June, which was nothing more than that Enova is managed only at the overall level and has great professional freedom: will the Council take an initiative to make the Enova mission letter so clear that the instruments are directed towards the maritime knowledge we have in Norway and the development of this and new technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e600	I think the representative of Aasland is eye-catchingly critical until the model Enova is ruled by. That's for two reasons. One reason is that I believe this is a very effective way to ensure that we get out as much innovation as possible and innovation of that model, and to ensure that we get the most energy savings and the most possible greenhouse gas emission reduction from that organisation. That's one reason. I have explained this in detail in the Energy Communication. The second reason why I am surprised that the representative is so clear in his criticism of the principles underlying the governance of Enova is that these principles underpinning today's agreement are created by the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government. It is the agreement that underlies the work Enova is doing today. That being said, the whole rationality behind Enova is to contribute to technology development, bring innovation and bring new technologies into the market. This, of course, will also lead to the new agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e611	I want to underline one thing: I'm not in any way critical of Enova. I'm critical of the government and the government's management of Enova. Now we are in a situation where the majority of the Storting want very clearly to use considerable resources to develop new technology, bring emissions down within the maritime industry and provide low and zero emission technologies. Will the Council of State then ensure that it is the national knowledge — the Norwegian knowledge, the Norwegian maritime industry — that can breed on that basis? Is that where the Council of State will set up tools and be clear to Enova, so that Enova can do the job they are very good at?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e618	Now I have to go back to what I said from the pulpit. Under this government, the efforts of the authorities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to streamline energy use in transport have already been greatly increased. Also in the budget that governs Enova's work in 2016, it is far higher than it was at any time under the red-green. That's the one. The second is that this government in the Energy Communication presents an idea to the Stortinget that we want to continue this reinforcement. There has been a significant majority in Stortinget, and of course it will also be followed up in a new agreement with Enova. We see that this works. Norwegian suppliers are actively involved in producing new technologies, bringing innovation and shifting new climate-efficient technologies to markets, both nationally and globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e627	In the context of the budget, we have previously had several decisions on hydrogen. We also had it in connection with the energy message. Hydrogen and fuel cells are a technology that can become very important in shipping, not least for fast boats, which I had questions about earlier. But technology requires support for development. My question is not addressed to the maritime industry as such: does the Council of State with the new order for Enova mean that we need a separate objective and programme to develop the possibility of using hydrogen in the Norwegian transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e632	Although I sometimes dislike it strongly, I have to admit that I am the Council of State in a minority government, and I am very aware of the strong commitment Ola Elvesuen and Left have shown in the matter of long-term hydrogen wagering. I am pleased with the good work that has been done on the energy message, and it is of course so that we will also follow up the very clear order that the majority gave to the government regarding hydrogen. Hydrogen can play a role both in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian gas production, in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from global maritime transport and, of course, in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from road transport. Progress has also been made in driving trains on hydrogen. This is very exciting, and of course it will be followed up in the further work on new agreements with Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e639	I have to admit that I think it's a bit funny to hear that very mention of Enova, because one councillor takes on income for himself all the good that Enova does, while the other councillor says that we don't really run Enova at all because there are other principles that underlie. I think that's a little funny. Since we are now discussing the issue of land flow, since the Council of State took up exactly that, and since the Right Representative took up the fact that there is now a new round of allocation from Enova on land flow, let me then ask the following specific question: In the first round, it was not even said how much money was to be distributed. This led to Bergen Havn applying for more money than the entire pot that was actually awarded. It's hard to dimension the applications if you don't know how much is in the pot. Is it published how much is distributed before you apply? The second question is: priority is given to fixed routes, for example: The fast route and priority is given to air quality or the most trafficked ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e646	Let me first point to the obvious misunderstanding of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås as to the discrepancy between the two councils present. What is quite clear is that all the exciting things are happening now, and hopefully also in Bergen Harbour and in a wide range of ports in Norway, is the result of a strong increase in investment within the transport area of Enova, supported by the majority of the population. This means expanding charging infrastructure for whole and partial electric vessels in large parts of the country. It is quite right that the representative from Hordaland points out that Bergen had a relatively solid and large application inside, which would have eaten a lot of the budget. I am pleased that there is now established good dialogue between Enova and Bergen Havn and Bergen municipality on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e655	I noticed that the Council of State did not answer one of the specific questions I asked. Will air quality be emphasised in the processing of applications? The focus will be on fixed routes, such as: The fast route? Will there be a focus on the volume of traffic in ports? It was completely absurd that our two largest ports, Oslo and Bergen, which have the biggest air quality problems and the largest volume, were not allocated any money at all. And for the last clarification – and now I expect the Council of State to respond to it: it is a claim that Enova has had a lot of money in mind with this government. It is such that when Enova got transferred tasks from Transnova, the entire Transnova support was cut. The budget money disappeared, the grant that has arrived. Similarly, when the tasks of CO 2 cleaning for gas power plants were transferred, additional costs were also borne by the energy and climate funds. Can the council say how much extra money he thinks Enova has received in annual appropriations in dollars and cents?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e665	What I have been talking about when it comes to appropriations for Enova is the money that has been set aside for the transport area. It has been important for the government to increase its investment in transport. There is also something that has been supported by a broad majority in Stortinget – not only that we have increased the funding for the transport sector, but also that there is something to be continued in a new agreement with Enova after Christmas this year. With regard to the question of which ports are given priority, I believe that it has been communicated very clearly. These are the ports where we get the most benefits from the investments that are being made, in terms of energy efficiency and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. We have also explained this in detail in the Energy Communication to Stortinget in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e672	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e678	It is important when discussing that one has clear messages and that one understands different positions. I think there is a little need to repeat myself once again when the largest opposition party experiences it as a guard, the government communicates. But I have also checked with several other representatives in the room about my message is as foggy as the representative Aasland gives the impression, and no one else experiences that fog. But I'm still going to repeat myself. The government is going to focus on the decision that has been taken, that we are going to arrange for the order quantity to increase in Norwegian yards as a result, and that we are going to make Norwegian yards even more able to be competitive in technology. That's what the majority has now adopted, as the Workers' Party now says they will support, but which is something quite different from what the Workers' Party itself wanted, because there was no demand for orders in Norwegian courts. On the other hand, there was a demand that we develop technology for ships that Norway does not produce, have not produced and will not produce, and there is money wasted. So this government and today's majority focus on jobs. The Labour Party did not, and I am glad that the Workers' Party is now coming after the majority in Stortinget. But let's try to avoid that we sit and suspect each other, as I feel that Aasland's representative is doing. This will be somewhat the same as the Workers' Party held in the 2005 election campaign, where they criticized the Bondevik government for not saving the Union in the Ski. One had the impression that they would, but as soon as the Workers' Party came to power, they did nothing to save the Union in the Ski anyway. The type of debate is very little fertile both in the Stortinget and not least towards the voters. The second part of the debate is on Enova. It's quite right, as the oil and energy minister says, that this is the principle that was established by the red-green government. And it's very strange that both the Workers' Party and SV are supercritical of the principles when they are in opposition themselves, rather than that we can stress that the principles are fundamental, but the Enova's tool has been strongly strengthened through increased resources. That means we're getting a lot more done now than what was planned with the red-green government, but the principles are, for the time being, the same as the Workers' Party had, but which the Workers' Party is now suddenly criticizing. I don't understand. Nor is it the case, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says, that the Minister for Oil and Energy and the undersigned have given various signals. On the contrary, we both boast of what we have actually achieved together with the Left and Christian People's Party, because that means there are more terrestrial power plants now than before, and there is more support for environmental technologies in the transport sector than before. So let's make sure that we give clear signals to business, and this government and the majority of today have shown that we support green technology development, we support green ferries through the states in providing better frameworks for developing this, and we will continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e703	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from a member of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e712	For 50 years, Norwegian oil and gas have contributed to jobs and value creation across the country. Since the start of Norwegian oil and gas production on the base, it has been important for the Norwegian authorities that the petroleum activity should give rise to new industries and ring-fences on land, and so on. Although the industry is now experiencing difficult times with low oil prices, and many people have unfortunately lost their jobs, there are still many thousands of Norwegians working in connection with the petroleum industry. And although the main focus of the workplaces is in the south and west, very few municipalities in Norway have no jobs related to this industry at all. This case arose as a result of the Norwegian, now Aker BP after the purchase of Marathon Oil, informed that they wanted to move five posts from their head office in Trondheim to their offices in Stavanger. The Norwegian is a known operator in the Ivar Aasen field. In the opinion of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, relating to the examination of plans for the development and operation of the Ivar Aasen field, the Committee states: ‘The Ivar Aasen supply base is likely to be in the Stavanger region, while the operational organisation is being added to Trondheim. The Committee considers that this will strengthen the petroleum environment in the region.» After the debate that arose after questions were asked about the location of the Ivar Aasen operations organisation both in the media and here in Stortinget, it has been made clear that the operating organisation remains in Trondheim. The Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee that the Norwegian Government has informed the Ministry that the operating organisation of the Ivar Aasen field will consist of its own staff and hire consultants who will have a place of work at the company’s headquarters in Trondheim. Furthermore, the Council of State writes that the Ministry has not received any signal that the company has plans to locate the operating organisation of the Ivar Aasen field other than Trondheim. Now in October, the Norwegian official name changed to Aker BP, after the signature of the draft terms of merger between the Norwegian, Aker and BP Norway. This has given us a new, strong player on Norwegian pedestal that will strengthen diversity and contribute to more competition. I think that's very good. The top executive of the company, Karl Johnny Hersvik, has stated that none of the offices of the Norwegian or BP are to be closed. The operating organisations of the different fields for which they are responsible also remain where they are. This should reassure those who have thought that the Norwegian wish to move five jobs to Stavanger in order to improve the efficiency of operations means that the Ivar Aasen operational organisation is being moved from Trondheim. Oil and gas industries are now undergoing major changes to ensure future value creation and competitiveness on Norwegian soil. Cutting costs and organizing more efficiently is part of this. There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between authorities and the companies in the framework of the petroleum industry. The task of the authorities is to govern through clear and predictable framework conditions, and companies are responsible for the day-to-day operation and commercial decisions at all stages of the field's lifetime. In total, this has contributed to the building of viable oil environments in many parts of the country, and it has been important to ensure the legitimacy of oil activities along the coast, as the entire Committee supports in its position on this matter. It will also be important for the future. So I don't know if there will be so much debate, but in that case I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e743	This proposal was promoted in order to raise some important aspects of a debate that I believe will be more urgent in the years to come than it has been so far. It is the question of whether the companies will comply with the leadership of the Storting that the oil business is to be spread throughout the country. There are many celebrations that oil activities should create regional competences and jobs. We use the parties everywhere, and it was also done in connection with the treatment of the PUD for Ivar Aasen, where one not least said that the operating organisation had to be added to Trondheim because it was to strengthen the petroleum environment in the region. In other contexts, we say that it should strengthen the workplace, the supplier environment, etc. It's important, and that's good. But the question is, are we actually able to follow it up, and how to follow it up in the years to come? That is why I understand the concern raised in Trondheim when the Norwegian authorities said that joint units should be co-located in Stavanger. It was a concern that was significant, not least among the local parties of the Right Party and the Progressive Party in Trondheim and Trondheim. Obviously they were concerned about that, because they were concerned about the jobs associated with Trondheim and Trøndelag and the oil business. We had an agreement already 20 years ago on how to locate operating and base organisations in Norwegian oil companies. This consensus was based both on a reasonable distribution and on building up the different regional environments. That's why we were going to develop Harstad, so we were going to develop Stjørdal, so we were going to develop Kristiansund, and that's why we were going to develop Stavanger. There have been changing governments, and it has been very reasonable, because it is not given that it would have been like this. One could have thought of a development in which everything had ended up in Stavanger. One could also have thought of a development where it did not end up in Norway at all, but that operating organisations and management of such fields had ended up in London, for that matter. So the decisions that the Stortinget once made in that context were important, they provided a basis, and that basis is also important in the future. I understand that the Council of State and the government believe that this is just a few jobs, and they have assured the committee that they have not received any signal that the company has plans to locate the operating organisation other than Trondheim. Then we'll take the government by the word when they say it to the Stortinget. Now it is that the Norwegians have been reorganised since the last time and have been transformed into Aker BP. The Norwegian signs are far from the Trondheim Square, and then we hope that the government – if there are any consequences in terms of moving jobs beyond the five that the government is talking about – will also be concerned about persecuting what one believes you have not been signaled so far. I also think it's an open question – which I might be able to come back to, and which the Council of State might be able to clarify – whether that is how the entire management of the operating organisation is going to stay in Trondheim. If he were to say so in Stortinget, it would make sense. The centre party therefore believes that this matter is important because there are some long lines in the Norwegian oil policy that deserve further care and development. The commitments and the distribution of jobs and activities around the country are some of them. Therefore, I am pleased that the entire Committee is now taking note that rightholders need to expand and operate the fields in line with approved plans, that the legitimacy of coastal oil activities is largely based on the principles we have previously set out in the Stortingen on the allocation of operational and base organisations, and that these principles must also be followed up in the years to come. In that I think there is a commitment from the whole Biggest that one also in the years to come they see the principles as important, and want them to be followed up. It was also a bit of the purpose of the Document 8 proposal: just to get a debate and an attitude that emphasizes that kind of thing. Ivar Aasen is one example. One has also had some other examples, which have not been quite lucky, I would say, and one is going to have examples in the years to come that will challenge the distribution of the oil business's operating and base organisations that Storting has a long tradition of using.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e762	I think it is good that this case was raised, and I think it is a timely question to travel in that part of the oil age that we are now in in Norway. The oil has always been described as an industry that will build the whole country and produce ring-effects locally, but we see that in the time we are now entering, which is probably a time of lower oil prices – at least no one talking about oil prices of $160 per barrel anymore – the oil industry is increasingly showing itself as an industry that is primarily concerned about buying money and having a drain-and-roam mentality, and that does not produce the kind of ring-effects locally promised in the past. The question is whether, as politicians, we are willing to participate and look at this and give the oil industry the opportunity to exploit natural resources and make parts of our country oil provinces, or whether to say: No, you know what – if the oil does not create ring-effects locally, it is also not possible to go further and make the expansions that you want. The most blatant example right now is the question of Johan Castberg – we will come back to that later in a Document 8 proposal, which I have been involved in promoting – where Statoil clearly all the time signaled that they would have to land a plant on the mainland, but the first thing they did when the oil price fell was to take advantage of the opportunity to go out and say that they did not get to this if they did not land. Then you have chosen a solution that sets aside the landing bit and investigates it as a separate project, but assumes a different solution. Let's say it like this, it's not just us SVs and the Center Party that criticizes something like that. The Workers' Party locally in Finnmark also says the same thing. Head of Ingaill Olsen says: ‘Our requirement is that all our natural resources should have ring-fenced effects on land. This is incredibly bad of Statoil." There is a dissatisfaction with the fact that the oil industry is using this downturn in the oil price to dissuade the social responsibility they have for the long-term development of the whole country. There has been a social contract between the oil industry and society in one way or another. Let's say it like this: she's not the first local politician I've spoken to, who's been promised gold and green forests by the oil industry to say yes to oil expansion, but who's been empty-handed again in retrospect. There is a need, in my opinion, for us to think carefully about which part of the oil industry we will accept in time. We have to sit down and look at the following: within a 1.5 degree scenario – what oil can we reasonably say that we are going to raise in Norway? That must form the framework for the debate we are going to have. And then we have to make sure that the oil and gas that's being picked up, and that's going to be picked up, has ringing effects locally. I think that must be a prerequisite in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e777	It's a unanimous attitude, so we're not going to make a very big debate about it, but I just want to point out from our side that the creation of ring-effects around the country, and that the oil business has built Norway, is a fact. There is not only an empty content of party speeches. Jobs have been created, and jobs are created around the country. That's what we're supposed to do. Then it is absolutely right that there has been a clear political objective from the very first – and cross-political agreement – that the oil industry should build the country. It shall have circular effects on land. It is also not certain that what was good in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s is what is good today. We have to be true to the objectives, but we have to be unfaithful to the means, because we have to use the instruments that hit best in the time we're in. We're now in a situation that's not unparalleled. We have had downs in the oil business in the past as well. We do not specify the targets for ring-fences on land by the oil industry because if the oil industry is currently deep down. The fact that you're not going back to the 160 dollar barrel is quite obvious, but we have to see that there will be oil operations in the country ahead. Then we must also ensure that the projects that are being developed create jobs. It is also something that the companies must see is in their own interest, that without creating jobs, without reference to the ring-fence on land, the political and popular support for the business will be lacking. That's my impression that the oil industry is very aware of. And then, as politicians, we have to think about: what kind of instruments do we have to ensure these ringing effects? So I believe that we should also have thought that the worst thing we do is to make demands that make profitable oil business shut down earlier than it would otherwise be. We rely on the business on the base to be efficient and well run in order for it to create the jobs that we actually have in the fields that are in operation, and in relation to the fields that are in operation, and that we get new jobs on what comes, when possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e785	But we also have to look into the eyes that large parts of the socket are now in a mature phase and are moving towards a shut-down. It has consequences, not only for those fields, but also for how to run the rest of this. So this is probably a discussion we're going to have more of the future. I think it's an important discussion and an important conversation to keep going on about this, but we have to hold on to the fact that the goals are there. The oil industry is going to build the country, create jobs across the country, and then we have to look at what means we use to achieve that goal. It will vary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e788	I am pleased that this debate is primarily characterised by the very most important criterion of success, the basis of which, the Norwegian oil adventure, namely that it is a bottom-solid and broad majority in the Grand Duchy that stands behind the large and important lines. I have to say that it went so far that I was very surprised that apparently it was such that SV Genuint wanted to get the Castberg oil on land – in order to get it on land it had to get up first, and I thought it was too far from SV. But now leave it. It's in any case a broad majority. One of the things that has been at the bottom all along is that the main objective of Norwegian petroleum policy and Norwegian energy management has been to manage these amazing resources in a way that in the short and long term creates maximum value, but also that it is within a sound and strict framework in terms of health, environment and safety. There have been hundreds of thousands of jobs created in virtually all Norwegian municipalities, and the fact that there is such a large majority behind the big lines also makes the Norwegian base considered a safe place to invest, even when there are tough times. But if we are to be able to build on this success in the future, we depend on the industry to succeed in addressing the profitability challenges that are now facing. High activity and new investments depend on our being able to control costs. The success of this is crucial to the success of new investments, for example. Castberg, which has already been mentioned. What has happened in this specific case is that it started with the Norwegian purchased Marathon and thus went from one to two operating organisations. Then it was natural to group the common functions in one place, and you chose to do it in Stavanger. Later, BP also became part of this, and it has now been said that you should have the headquarters in Oslo, but the operating organisations of Alvheim and Aasen where they are today, i.e. in Stavanger and Trondheim. The proposers come from parties that have a slightly different approach to the EEA Agreement, you might say. It is that the proposal deals with matters affecting our obligations under competition law under the EEA Agreement, but they are also reflected in Paragraph 10-2 of the Petroleum Act, which was amended, by a broad majority in Stortinget, in fact, under the government of Stoltenberg. That policy, I think, is wise. I'm going on with that policy. With regard to the question from the representative Marit Arnstad, I have to point out what we have answered in our letter to Stortinget, dated 5 April 2016. This is shown – i.e. for the Ivar Aasen field – among others. at: ‘In total, a staff member with his own staff and hired at the start of production of approximately 60 with a place of work in Trondheim is planned in the operating organisation.’ Besides that, I have no further comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e814	I'll follow this up a little bit. At first I would like to say, in the context of the debate, that I think we should distinguish a little bit between the ringing effects on land and operating and base organisations, because there are many different ringing effects on land, in many different communities, perhaps in each municipality throughout the country, but what we have decided on in terms of operational and base organisations is a structure of places where to build up the regional competence environment. I understand the concern that arose in Trondheim. I think you have to understand that someone here was worried about – there might have been several things – the jobs associated with the Ivar Aasen operating organisation. Now, the Council of State refers to its letter from April, but can the Council of State guarantee that the government will intervene if Aker BP, against assumption, proposes to move the management or large parts of – or whole – the operating organisation from Trondheim to another location?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e821	After living in Trondheim since 1997, I can at least confirm that there are a lot of trophies who are very proud of what the Norwegians have built in recent years, starting from the head office in the middle of Trondheim Square. So I don't know if it was the representative Arnstad or anyone else who pointed to the fact that the sign had been taken down. I don't know if I'm going far into a local political debate now if I say that I hope you put a new sign with Aker BP on, but it might well be dealt with in the building council in Trondheim, so I should probably stick to it too well. Norwegians have become an important part of the new Aker BP, one of the major and forward-looking players on Norwegian pedestals, which will be important to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian pedestals and create values in the future. It won't be right for me – the representative Arnstad himself has a lot of experience in the job I have – to speculate on hypothetical issues. Aker BP, or the Norwegian, has been crystal clear that this is currently not planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e830	I understand that the Council of State will be a bit diplomatic, but let me put it in a slightly different way and ask: is it that the Council of State, if Aker BP were to move parts of or the whole operating organization from Trondheim, would think that there is a breach of the terms of the PUD for Ivar Aasen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e836	It is a prerequisite for activity on a Norwegian base that the rightholders on a Norwegian base relate to the decisions taken. I can say that on a general basis, and that's also the representative Arnstad very well known. I want to refer to what the red-green government put forward and got a majority for, in addition to the government parties – from the petroleum law § 10-2: ‘In order to ensure compliance with the first subparagraph, the Ministry may, on a case-by-case basis and in so far as it is deemed necessary in relation to the scope of the activities of the rightholder, establish specific requirements for the organisation of the rightholder in Norway.’; And then... ‘The Ministry may also, if the interests of good resource management or health, the environment and safety so warrant, require the rightholder to use specific bases.’; This is a legislative formulation that has been given a majority on a proposal from the red-green ones, and which I believe is a wise approach to Norwegian petroleum management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e853	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e871	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e881	The issue we are dealing with concerns the amendment of the Energy Act § 4-2, first paragraph, with the aim that non-system administrators or undertakings in which they have a dominant influence may own or operate foreign connections. The ownership restrictions that are now being removed were introduced in 2013, inter alia: to bring that provision into line with the requirements of EEA law. It is a majority of the committee that supports the amendment of the law. I expect that this majority itself will justify its position. I would like to justify the minority's opposition to the change and our proposal for B in the vote, which is supported by a majority in the Committee. With today's ownership restrictions, we ensure that all revenues from operating the international connections are returned to Norwegian customers through reduced network rental. It is made simple and unbureaucratic as Statnet owns the transmission network, including the international connections. Similarly, the costs incurred in the transmission system as a result of the construction and operation of international connections are recovered from the profits generated by the operation of international connections. The proposition does not answer how to regulate revenues from new, privately owned connections, nor do we get any indication of how to cover the costs arising from the transmission network. In accordance with current legislation, the installation contribution in the masked network may only be determined in exceptional cases, as provided for in paragraph 1. letters of the State Council to the Committee of 29 August. That's not a little bit of money we're talking about here. During the period 2012-2015, 2 250 million were recovered. NOK to Norwegian power customers from the operation of the international connections. The NorNed cable alone has given 590 million. kr since the start. The role of state networks in the management of the transmission network, including international connections, will change dramatically when they are in addition to competing with private companies in the development and operation of new connections. This is to a small extent addressed in the proposal, while the hearing bodies have serious comments that point to the need for clarification. The removal of ownership restrictions on the present basis allows for the privatisation of revenues from new foreign relations, while socialising costs. This means increased costs for Norwegian electricity customers, deterioration of the framework conditions for Norwegian renewable energy-based industries, and means that the role of the State network owner and manager of the transmission network is unclear. We have a role conflict between the role of system operator and the role of competitor in a market. And why is this done? Do we have a problem today? No, no, no. We get an exchange capacity after the two cables that are now under construction are completed, at 30 pst. Security of supply is ensured. There's funding in place for these things. New actors are not needed in this picture. Today's ownership restrictions provide a high level of security of supply and reduced network costs for society and electricity customers. In the Energy Communication itself, the government has pointed to the need to gain experience and make thorough analyses of the ongoing deployments before further capacity increases. So it is not desirable for new cables to be built in the near future, in addition to what is under construction. Against this background, the present legislative amendment cannot be seen as anything other than an ideologically based privatisation initiative. However, I note that there is a majority in the UK for this privatisation. The Workers' Party therefore subsidiaryly supports the proposal to postpone the implementation of the legislative amendment until the Grand Duchy has been brought before it on a matter of rules on the coverage of costs arising from the transmission network, regulation of revenues, application of legislation on the distinction between production and transmission and, in particular, clarification of the role of Statnet when foreign connections become privately owned. I am pleased that we have a majority in the committee for this proposal, but I am very disappointed that the government parties and the Left do not support this. It would at least give a tab of credibility to their argument that this is a positive law change. It's incomprehensible to me that you have such a hurry with this law change, given that we don't need new cables with the first, and given that there are so many dilemmas and problems that need to be resolved before there can be concession to this type of cable. It's simply incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e901	The working party will vote against the A of the setting, and we will vote in favour of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e904	Let me first thank the representative Per Rune Henriksen, who has been the case rapporteur, and the rest of the Committee for a good cooperation on a matter where we have a shared position. The reduction shall today adopt a change in the law that allows actors other than the State network to apply for a concession to own and operate foreign power tables abroad. I record that in the debate conducted in the media, it is produced as if it were almost a release of private actors to be allowed to sell electricity out of the country – that is of course not the case. On the other hand, today's amendment of the law is important in order to ensure transparency and competition for a specialised infrastructure and, in our view, will help to safeguard the Community's interests in a good way. Electricity is a commodity and at the same time an extreme fresh product. The current is used almost at the same moment it is generated. This means that the power system must always be in perfect balance between supply and demand. It is natural that such an infrastructure is operated by a monopoly, and in Norway the system operator and the monopolist Statnet. What we are discussing today, on the other hand, is power cables to the rest of the world, or inter-national connections. These are high voltage cables that can transport current both ways. The benefits of such compounds are several. The cables help to strengthen security of supply by ensuring power availability in dry years where Norwegian production is low, and they enable the sale of surplus power that would otherwise be lost. Norway’s ability to provide clean, renewable energy to our European neighbours also has the potential to be a good climate action. I have listened to opposition scepticism and critical remarks. I am well aware that there is a sharp ideological distinction in the view of private ownership between the parties that support the amendment of the law today and the parties on the left. However, it is a little surprising for me when the wording of the arguments becomes so strong, with claims that we should sell the inheritance silver and privatize the profit. Perhaps it is particularly surprising that this comes from the Workers' Party, which, after all, has had the ability to see that competition often has a lot of good work. It is worth noting that the claim about high electricity prices and price shocks for Norwegian customers is brought to the market when it comes to talking about private construction of foreign tables. I did not hear that kind of argument when Statnett got the concession to build two new connections in 2014. The reality is that we have a long tradition in Norway to ensure that the interests of the community are safeguarded by such developments. This week Technical Weekly wrote that there is no reason to fear any price shock due to foreign tables. They referred to a report from Thematic Consulting that the new cables to Germany and the United Kingdom will not increase the electricity price in Norway by more than 1 to 2 øre per kWh. The experience with the cables to Denmark and the Netherlands is also that they provide good income, which also benefits the community. This would also be the case if private operators were granted a concession to operate international connections. The Community shall not take the investment cost and risk of any new connection, and we shall cover network customers for costs related to the construction of the cable. In addition, the majority behind the vote has chosen to stress that the government needs to facilitate the protection of the Community's interests by the concession authorities. I am therefore confident through regulatory action that any extraordinary profits on future cables will in any case benefit the community. Competition is a good thing when it happens on a fair basis and with equal rules of play. Today, when the Storting opens up more competition to build and operate socio-economically useful power cables abroad, Norwegian consumers will benefit. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e923	The representative of Odd Henriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e929	The power grid is one of our most important infrastructure. Modern society is totally dependent on stable and predictable power supply. Energy, and in particular clean energy, will only become more important and important in the years ahead. Climate change means that we need to produce more renewable energy as a substitute for fossil energy sources. Norway is uniquely positioned in this situation. We already have a record high renewable share, and we have a potential to produce more. This means that we have great opportunities to create new jobs in renewable energy and renewable energy technologies. Non-governmental organisations are a central tool in this. The power we can produce in Norway and not consumers themselves can be sold to a Europe that will need significantly more clean energy in the coming years. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that it is important to open up new ideas. The changes in the Energy Act that allow non-State networks to own and operate international connections are positive because it provides competition that contributes to increased value creation through innovation and more cost-effective development. This is important in order to realise the potential we have within renewable energy. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that this is a change that concerns who can build and operate foreign connections, not whether new foreign connections are to be built. Concession treatment will continue to be required and socio-economic profitability requirements will have to be equally stringent for all concessional applications, regardless of who is applying. This ensures that only projects that are socially viable are granted concession. Questions have been raised in this case regarding any exceptional income from international relations and issues related to installation contributions for the improvement of existing networks linked to new connections. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the interests of the community are safeguarded by the fact that extraordinary incomes belong to the community. At the same time, it is important that network customers are not charged for costs related to network costs on land or costs related to the cable itself. It is therefore important that land-based network costs are covered by civil engineering contributions and that costs related to the external connection itself are not charged to network customers. The Christian People's Party believes these are issues that should have been settled primarily before the law comes into force, along with the other questions raised under I. But the Christian People's Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Government Parties and the Left during the vote. Summary, to be clear: The Christian People's Party supports the amendment of the Energy Act. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal under B and Subsidy Proposal No. 1, from the government parties and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e953	The Government is proposing today to abolish its monopoly on the construction and operation of foreign relations. It was a legislative change that was introduced in 2013. The background for the amendment was maybe two-part. One was that there would be a lot of different initiatives on foreign tables that hit each other. Everyone has their project, and no one takes full responsibility. But the second and most important reason is that foreign connections are de facto part of the central network owned by Norway and operated by Statnet. It is a natural monopoly where one actor is important in order to ensure the integrity of the system and national control over critical infrastructure. It is simply the control of an important Norwegian natural resource that we are talking about. The fact that it is now being reversed and that private operators are being introduced into the central network means that the State loses significant control over the energy market and over its own infrastructure. That, I think, is an important core of this debate. Therefore, it is also quite incomprehensible that one should be in such a hurry to get it through – that one is not willing to properly assess the consequences, that no one today knows whether any plant contribution will be made, that no one today knows how to return the income to the community, as the majority who want to privatize, also says they want to. But no one today is ready to explain how this is going to happen. I think that's one of the problems with this case, and that means that adopting it today means that a leaning considerably on ideology over reason. In addition, in the opinion of the Centre Party, all traditions are broken. We agree with the Competition Surveillance Authority's view that the right to own and operate foreign connections should be reserved to a system operator as StatenNet in order to ensure socio-economic efficient operation and expansion. It is not often agreed by the Centre Party and the Competition Authority, but right there we agree. But it also has another side to it that it violates all traditions, because it also means in practice that producers can enter the central network. It has not been the case in Norway since Statnett and Statkraft separated layers, in 1991, that producers could do so. In the opinion of the Center Party, this can create an unfortunate double role. Producers will often have other drivers, and they can also have different incentives than what Statnett and society otherwise have. It is in itself also an unfortunate consequence of the change that is being proposed today. So a little bit more about this with how to distribute profits and earnings, and how to cover development costs. The fact that it's brought back 2.2 billion. NOK only in a few years, in lower rents, says something about how large sums we talk about when it comes to returning values to the community. But one might also imagine that if the government were not to impose plant contributions — or if it were not as simple as one believes — it would in itself mean an incredible subsidisation of these foreign connections. It is easy to see that one needs major upgrades of existing networks to manage the capacity provided by a new cable, and the principle is that it must cover Norwegian consumers through a higher network rental. Paradoxically, this means that Norwegian consumers have to pay more in network rental to get a higher electricity price. It is a double act that I think it will be very difficult to explain to Norwegian consumers that one has to do. Therefore, I understand that a plant contribution has now been changed in the setting. But I'm wondering how you're going to design it. Should be 100 pst.? Does it cover all upgrades in all bottlenecks towards a cable in the central network? How is this going to be designed? For if it is not the case that the Progress Party in the Government shall apply a double cost to Norwegian consumers. They have to pay higher network rentals to increase the electricity price. It won't be easy to explain. I think that such things should have been clarified before one made such a decision. I think that would be natural. The centre party has nothing to do with increasing the exchange of power abroad – we see it as an important part of Norway’s ability to export renewable energy, I do not get it wrong – but this duality with the fact that a boat has to pay private builders to build the cable, and then get high electricity prices, no one has the opportunity to explain, and it can be the result of this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e971	In the public debate and also in many of the contacts you get, you can get the impression that this matter is about building new foreign tables, private ones, and that it is going to be done now and by others other than Statnet. I don't think so. We have adopted two new foreign tables that Statnett has to build. For the left, I would first of all like to say that I believe that external relations are positive for Norwegian security of supply – of course also because it will have a profitability in sales and exchanges of energy – not least in terms of the climate benefit that foreignables provide, by allowing Norwegian renewable energy and renewable energy to replace fossil energy sources in other countries. But this matter is only about whether we should be able to allow actors other than Statnet to build foreign tables. From the left hand side, we can't see what's the big problem with doing that. It will still be that one depends on a concessional treatment. It is still the State and the public that decide whether to build several foreign tables, which is the most important and fundamental decision, and there will still be demands – and exactly the same and strict requirements as those of Statnet – on the socio-economic profitability of any project. Statnet’s role will also remain crucial as the system operator for the power system, the operation and development of the power system in a socially rational manner, and Statnet must continue to play a central, leading role in the development of foreign relations in cooperation with other stakeholders. Of course, once adopted, it is still a work that needs to be done afterwards. We have also put in an additional proposal with the government parties, which will now also support the Christian People's Party subsidiary, to look at any extraordinary income that foreign relations could bring, and to ensure that these are added to and attributed to the community. It is also important to point out that what is now done is nothing but going back to the same law that we had before 2013. In the discussion on costs, I do not think it is given that foreign connections themselves provide increased electricity prices in Norway, which is often taken into account, at all – this is an exchange. Just as it may be more similar than in other countries, it will also be able to take away some of the peaks, which are still likely to come in Norway too. The development of international connections by several actors should also take into account the fact that it is in itself possible for a more cost-effective development to have several actors in that market.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e987	Although other than State networks may be granted concessions for international connections, this is, to the most extent, a regulated market, where control is under the control of the public and state — whether it is to be built, when it is to be built, and what framework conditions are to be set. The left considers this to be a right decision, but it is also important that the additional proposal now received a majority in the Grand Duchy, with regard to any exceptional gains in foreign relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e990	Let me start by killing a myth. It's not like we're relying on new cables to the rest of the world to replace Norwegian hydropower and Norwegian renewable energy with fossil energy abroad. Everything that's produced, pushed out and transferred to the rest of the world already with the wiring grid that we have today. What we get if we build power cables, as we're doing now, is that we get the opportunity to sell more power – but that's something else. The power that we produce, which is more than what we consume in a normal year, is already going to push fossil energy abroad. That's because our hydropower will always be cheaper than coal power from abroad, and therefore it's going to push fossil energy abroad. However, this effect provides an opportunity for the community in Norway. It gives us the opportunity to sell more power when it's expensive in Europe, and to buy more power when it's cheap in Europe. In other words, it gives us as a community, because it is largely the community that owns the power plants in Norway, an opportunity to increase our revenues and increase the value of the hydropower and renewable energy we produce, which we can again invest in infrastructure, welfare goods and other things that we have to be concerned about. That's what this case is about. In addition, it provides an opportunity for other parts of Europe — and that has been the argument that, among other things, I and SV have supported the development of transmission cables – to invest in more renewable energy, because we can make up a larger part of that balancing force. For the wind blows when the wind blows, but the wind does not always blow. The sun shines when the sun shines, but the sun does not always shine. That's why we have the opportunity to run down our amazing hydropower to the rest of Europe, because that's the only force we can turn off and on so easily, in just five minutes' notice. Norway is 50 pst. of Europe's total dam capacity. These are good arguments for why cables are good. But then I have to say the following: This case is tempting to mention as headless – in the absence of impact assessments. I'm not going to call it that, but just assert that this is really about a big case, namely the possibility of privatising parts of the central network, without proper impact studies being carried out, and that's not good. Let me use what I see as the nucleus of the argument. I would like to join in the very good contributions that have been made by the Workers' Party Per Rune Henriksen and the Center Party's Marit Arnstad, who are just going to the core of the point, namely the situation of the central network. Everyone in this room agrees that the central network must be maintained by the State. It is important for social security. It's important for control all over the network. That's important security for the country. Everyone's for it. Everyone agrees. In other words, everyone agrees that the cables, i.e. the network between Bergen and Oslo, should be state owned. If you use the same argument in Denmark, everyone here in the Chamber agrees that the network between Aalborg and Copenhagen should be State owned, because they have exactly the same interests. But the connection of these networks, as this is about, the connection between two state networks, no, we can privatize that, because it is not central infrastructure that is as important as the state. Infrastructure is not as important. Doesn't the position, which is now driving this through, realize how inconsistent that argument is? Can't you go into that argument carefully and see if it keeps water? The answer to that is that it does not hold water at all. When you open up, as the majority does, that private people should be able to get in, they give one good argument to the position that's driving this through. There is one good argument, and that is that there will always be actors who are looking at opportunities for profitability and profit. That's the only good argument. But does not the majority see that what you are doing is opening up the possibility of socialising the costs of developing the network and transferring the money instead to private actors? That's what you do here, when you say yes to what's socio-economically profitable. If private companies make $200 million. kr and the others lose 100 million. kr – if the community loses – it is nevertheless socio-economically profitable. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1003	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1015	The Green Party fully agrees with the government and the support parties' ambition to strengthen the investment in foreign tables for the exchange of power between Norway and other European countries. It is important to be able to use the value of today’s electricity production system in Norway in a more efficient way, and it is not least important to link Norway as quickly as possible to the development of a European renewable market that needs to become, both directly and indirectly, a very important part of the Norwegian foreign market in the coming years. Getting involved early in that market makes a lot of sense. Increased investment in foreign houses is also an increased organisation to exploit what is one of Norway’s major remaining unused energy resources, namely the sea wind, which requires such a network and which can have a very significant impact as a contributor to a European renewable market in the coming years. We disagree with the government that it is a good idea to do this through a privatisation solution of the type that is now proposed. First of all, we see the counter-conceptions, which were well described by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, in defining the connection between two national networks, all of which are agreed to be national networks, as a kind of ownership no-man's country where you can get rid of schemes that you don't want in the national territory. It is not consistent and, above all, it is not necessary. Of course, it is also problematic to provide a solution that enables costs, indirectly, in the case of private cable networks to be passed on to Norwegian customers. Nor is it necessary to use this slightly artificial privatisation solution to get to what we and the government agree on. There I am a little concerned that sector interests in Norway have a little too much influence on the Stortinget and on the government in their fear of higher prices. It's a fear that several people have been in, which is probably quite exaggerated. Long-term price developments in the European market are more likely to lead to a fall in electricity prices, and I think it is important that this fear is not decisive when you think about how to build up the further foreign table network in Norway. It is actually so simple that the Stortinget and the government can instruct Statnett to be somewhat less restrained in its attitude to the development of foreign tables. After all, the Green Party will encourage the government to be significantly more offensive to the system and company over which the government itself has full control, and which even the Centre Party expresses its support for becoming more offensive in this process. Then I believe that with such an attitude we will be able to reach a broad consensus, as far as I hear, in the Grand Duchy on what is important, namely more foreign relations, and then you will let go of what, with this very decision, seems to be a certain derailment of the debate, which goes on the question of privatisation or not. We don't have to. What we need is cables.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1028	I think it has been a good debate so far, and I have reason to hope that it will continue. I think in general that one of the better quotes is when a mountaineer talks about the sun not always shining. That's something you should listen to, because there are the experts. And that's right, the sun doesn't always shine, the wind doesn't always blow, and that's why it has, for example. Denmark’s power trading has made it possible for Denmark to achieve much more in the phase-out of coal than the other European power systems, for example. Germany, which has approx. the same amount of non-regulatable renewable energy in their systems, and had an energy system 15 years ago that was very similar to the Danish, to a large extent coal-fired, system. But then it doesn't always rain – I have to admit it. If you come from Bergen, you might not have the same strong relationship with the fact that it doesn't always rain. But it's not always raining. We have explained in detail in the Energy Communication a great advantage we have brought into a more sustainable European energy system, that we have adjustable hydropower as the backbone of our system. We are a large country with few people, and yet we have managed to build an efficient power system that makes us well prepared to use renewable energy for new purposes in Norway in an efficient way. Of course, that's just positive. What we have also been involved in this is that since 1967 – and promoted by a liberalised power market under the former Minister of Oil and Energy of the Centre Party, Eivind Reiten – we have had a liberalised Nordic power market. It has also been decisive for the way we have built our system. I believe that this has been useful for both consumers and producers. So what are we discussing today? One of the things we're discussing is whether just the state or others that many people call private are supposed to be actors. We know that the actors that have been on the track so far have not been very private. There has been a large amount of publicly owned power company. But what we're discussing is whether we're going to bring the law back to what the law was in seven and a half of the eight years the red-green crashed. Some believe that they should have been further investigated. When the red-green government presented the proposal to the Storting to remove the possibility of non-state actors building a transmission network out of the country – that is, building trading capacity abroad – the red-green government in the proposition wrote that this has negligent, economic and administrative consequences. Now, when we're about to propose to Stortinget to change the law back to the way it was in seven and a half of the eight years of red-green rule, you think this should have been solved in a lot of ways. So I do not agree, as it is obvious from both the proposition and the answers we sent afterwards. The reason why we believe that we should make it possible for people other than the State to work on these types of projects and, if necessary, to build and operate them is, among other things. that it will reduce the risk of reducing costs with transmission network capacity to the rest of the world on the Norwegian central network. It's because we believe that competition stimulates technology development and to find new technologies to reduce costs, because there's no doubt that foreignables cost money and they bring risks. New technologies can reduce costs. We believe that competition will lead us to look for new business models to strengthen the value creation of the renewable Norwegian energy resource, and we believe that this will make it easier to find funding. That is what the debate is about, it is not about having as many foreign tables as possible as possible. Outdoor landscapes have been very central in a value creation perspective and in a climate perspective; we are going to build more in the future, but we have also said that now we need to have experience in the operation of the two large cables we are building, one for Germany and one for the United Kingdom, before we give concession to new cables. And any new cable that will be built will be subject to a socio-economic assessment, and we will follow up what the Storting has said about both assessing construction contributions and ensuring that any super-profit falls into the community. Then I have noticed that someone has also tried to raise the debate on foreign trade by force pays off. There has been a central element in the development of Norwegian power systems for more than 40 years — almost 50 years in fact — and it will also be in the future, and it pays off for consumers and producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1051	The Workers' Party supports the construction of socio-economically viable international relations. The aim of these external links is to strengthen security of supply in Norway, and it is also an objective to provide revenues that benefit all electricity customers with the current system. We get with the two new cables that are now under construction, a 30 pst. transfer capacity towards the rest of the world. That means that security of supply is top-notch, to say the least. Statnet's ownership ensures that the income, that is, point two, benefits all the current customers. There is no need for any more cables now. We know that private individuals can drive projects with all sorts of technology developments etc., but my question to the Council of State is: why make a change now that is so poorly prepared, which has so few answers to all the dilemmas and issues that, among other things, are. We in the Grand Duchy travel, but also have hearings traveled?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1058	I agree that we are now in the process of creating a robust supply security situation in Norway, which is good. Unfortunately, we have a few and twenty years of low transmission network construction, but now we are about to put in place a sufficient level of security of supply for a few years to come. I think that something that will at least be fatal, is if we now sit down and say that we're done building our transmission network, now we're done building the intermediate connections. On the contrary, we know that the EU believes that we will continue to build our European power systems in the future. I think that is also right, but, as I said, there are no plans now to quickly establish more foreign relations, while in the future it could be natural. We believe that competition is good for, among other things, to reduce the cost of constructing these cables.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1063	I record that there is no good answer to why this is so urgent that you can't look at the negative effects it gets. The EU wants increased capacity to exchange between Member States – 12 pst. they have set goals. I repeat, we get 30 pst. exchange capacity. And while we're talking about the EU: the EU rule is that it's the transmission system operator who's supposed to be the owner of the intergovernmental connections. There are exceptions for building and owning private cables when otherwise it would not be built because the risk is too high or there are no others who will invest in it. Is it that we imagine that there will be so much need for this that Statnett cannot cover with our 30 pst. transmission capacity, that the need will be so great that the State network will not be able to meet this? Don't Statnett have enough capital for this? Doesn't Statnett have the government in its backs in its business?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1068	I can confirm that Statnett has the government in its back of the business they run. I am pleased that there is probably a unanimous growth behind the fact that Statnet is now increasing intermediate trading capacity from 20 p.m. For approx. 30 pst, which is much higher than the 15 pst. which the EU has set as its goal for its work. As I said, I'm glad. Interim trade in power serves both Norwegian value creation and climate in a good way. Then I have tried to explain both in the proposition, in the responses to the Storting and today that there are many good reasons why non-governmental actors, in particular public-owned power companies, should be allowed to develop these types of projects. It is a matter of risk-sharing that transmission network customers do not take the full risk. It's about technology development, it's about new business models, and it's about providing funding for this type of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1075	I just remind you again that it is entirely permissible for actors other than Statnet to develop and run this kind of project. It is also happening today with today's legislation. What's the question, is who should own and drive. In the debate, it has been said that there is also a wish from the government and from the position that a super-profit should belong to the community. We have not received an answer as to how you think this will happen in practice. Can the Council of State define what a superprofit is? Can he describe how this could be returned to the community? Will it be the same as Statnet's contribution to this today? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1083	The reason why we haven't addressed this in the proposition is, among other things, that we know that intermediate capacity affects the Norwegian power system differently depending on where they go, affects the power system of the countries we build on in different ways, and where we have a long tradition of doing so with Sweden and Denmark, and where there is mutual respect for the mutual benefit of what we do, we have shared the bill 50–50. How this will look in the future, to legislate how this is to be done, I don't think it's wise, because this has to be judged by the authorities on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1087	So it's perfectly pointed out by Stortinget that construction contributions are a way of doing it, and making sure that a private developer takes all the costs of the transmission network, is one way of doing it. Another way to do that is to say that, in addition to an expected normal return, some kind of tax is imposed on the revenue from this cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1090	Superprofit is one of the things that touches the nucleus here, and it also has the majority, who have commented on it in the position, dutifully admitted. But it must be possible to get some answers from the Council of State on what he thinks about it. Can I interpret the last answer as being either a plant contribution, or a super-profit? The point must be that one has to do both. The point is that Norwegian online customers do not have to pay for the development of land networks that Statnett may have to do because of a cable. Then you have to pay 100 pst. plant contributions. Can the Council of State guarantee that this will be done? In addition, there is a question of what kind of profits private individuals will have before being defined as so-called super-profit, which society might be able to absorb. So the answer to both of those questions is, can the Council of State guarantee that it's 100 pst. plant contributions? And how much income does one have to have before one is up in what the Council of State defines as superprofit?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1099	I note that both the previous questioner and the representative Arnstad are very concerned about this. So we're going to change the law back to the way it was in 2013. So the law that we are adopting today applied for seven and a half years, under the regime of the last red-green government, to the government itself put forward a proposal for the Storting and said that this had limited economic and administrative consequences. To the question from the representative Arnstad: is there a case of both plant contribution and some kind of super-profit collection? Yes, it is, of course, but to stand here and give some guarantees now – we agree, hope and believe, that different inter-national connections will have different effects on both the Norwegian system and the system they affect outside Norway. So now to say that we have a clear formula on this, is not right, but normal returns we have a long experience of operating with in Norway. It will not be problematic to operate with normal returns also on this type of infrastructure project.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1107	When the Council of State believes that it is unproblematic to go back to the legal situation, which is slightly different in the sense that there is more and more interest, including from private people, in order to expand out than it was before, it must also be right to be quite clear to the Stortinget today. I understand the council so that anything but normal returns will be drawn into society. I hope I've understood that correctly. Then I would like to ask if the Council of State can guarantee that 100 pst will be charged. construction contributions, so that Norwegian network customers do not pay and subsidise private development of foreign tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1114	As I said earlier today, partly as an attempt to be funny and partly as an expression of a relatively hard reality: I am the Council of State in a minority government and relate to the decision of the Stortinge. The decision today is that I will come back to Stortinget and present a model of how this can be done. Of course I will. In that model, of course, we need to consider the question of super-profit, the question of how to handle plant contributions, and the question of normal returns. That's what Stortinget is going to ask me today, I'm going to come back to. So we know – the representative Arnstad also knows very well – that when it comes to the fact that this concession ends up at the table of Norwegian energy authorities, it does not happen tomorrow or next year, probably. It happens a few years in time. But now a majority on the Stortinget – and then a relatively significant majority on the Stortinget – sends a clear signal to the industry that this is something we will continue to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1121	I think the last round of lines here shows with all clarity how suspicious it is to implement a change in the law without the consequences being overlooked at all. If you just see how much profit we've got on the power cables we've had abroad, we're sitting here and we're going to let private in. So Tord Lien says two things: you have to look at whether the question of which regime this is to be subjected to is to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Then there's a crazy room for corruption in a kind of case whose hundreds of millions -- just think of the NorNed cable, which has been mentioned here, 590 million. kr, think of the amount of profit that lies there – to be dealt with in a single decision with unclear rules and unclear frameworks. It is at least so that you have not thought about what kind of frame it should be for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1126	Was there a question in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1131	No, it was a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1136	I did not fully understand the question, but I can still say the same thing as I said instead: this is a reversal of the law to the way it was in 2013, and as it had been for seven and a half years, while the representative Eidsvoll Holmås sat in government. We have a long tradition in Norway to operate with a type of basic interest tax after normal returns – both are part of the energy management. Then it is clear that there will be a big difference between how a new fifth cable to Denmark will affect our system and the Danish system, and who will benefit most from that cable. The same will be true of any new cable to the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, etc. Saying now that it has to be handled like that would not be right. Different projects need to be able to be handled in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1141	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1148	I'm relatively startled at how easily the bulk of the population deals with these issues that have been raised by the minority in the committee. Competition is good, because it increases value creation, it's said. But you don't go in and ask, "Competition about what?" What market are we talking about here? Is it that the cables we're talking about here are laid out every day, and it's just choosing the good solutions? It's not. What's the input factor in these projects is cable. There are not many factories in the world producing the type of cable that it is talking about for an overseas link between Norway and the United Kingdom. It's about ships to put these cables. There are very few of them available on the market. What competition actually contributes here, we know. It's bonding capacity, and it costs money, and it drives up the cost of any of it. We also know that today there is nothing in the way that anyone can drive and propose projects for foreign relations. Today, we have a group that has launched a project called NorthConnect, which is an inter-national link to the United Kingdom, and which is likely to apply for a concession – it looks like. Odd Henriksen says that we have a long tradition of dealing with all the issues we address about foreign connections. Yes, we have a long tradition of dealing with this through the ownership of the cables, which go to Statnet, which is system operator. That's why there's been no problems. We point to the problems that arise when you change them, and you don't have much experience in dealing with them. The price effects are minimized. The network lease – and it is primarily the one I am concerned with this – will increase as it has not been demonstrated that electricity subscribers in Norway will receive a refund in the same way that you are doing today. I remember $2,250 million. kr in the last three years. The trustees of Alcoa have today gone out and explained the effects of 1 ø/kWh at an increased price for them. That'll be $29 million. kr of a result that is laborious in advance in a very varied market. The superprofit we're talking about is being very little defined. Now we're told from the state council that this can be absorbed by tax. Yeah, I guess that's good. Then the owners lose the so-called superprofit. But where does it go? We don't know anything about that, and that's what's our point. With today's model, it goes to the subscribers. The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left becomes reliable when you only ask for a statement from the government on how to cover these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1163	As the debate has shown, we have a long tradition in Norway for Community control and ownership of the central network and foreign tables. The reasons are good. It's about security, it's about the distribution of costs, and not least about the distribution of profits. The majority in this room also do not support these objections, i.e. the problems of public disclosure. The solution to those problems, according to the Council of State, is some form of civil engineering contribution and some form of tax. There's a very easy way to deal with this, and it's to have this in the community's possession. Then you solve both problems in a completely unproblematic way. What's the biggest problem of the majority is that you can't see what the benefits are. You write in the setting: ‘A more diverse image of actors will be able to promote projects for comparison and competition with each other. Competition could promote new trade solutions and technological choices, while enhancing the effectiveness and cost-effective development of international connections.’» [[...]] Does the majority really realize what it is they're going to grant concession to? You have to grant a concession to own and operate the cables, not to build them out. Statnet can order anyone to do that. There are already private actors who can offer projects, offer technological solutions, offer everything within delivery. This happens every day in the Western corridor and everywhere – when we have to put cables, there are many private companies in it. Does the Council of State believe that these companies are to tender for the operation and ownership of the cable, too, at a risk of some form of tax being levied on the profits, or some form of construction contribution intended to ensure that electricity customers in Norway do not receive the bill? Which investors are involved in projects on such a basis? It's a totally unprofessional way of dealing with the market. As a former Minister of Industry for four years, I have never seen my husband think about spending something on private actors. You have to know what you're going to do, what you're going to go into, and what the framework conditions are. Yes, there's a superprofit in this, and that's exactly why it should benefit the community – not by looking at an afterlife tax, because this suddenly became a problem. The whole thing is about getting away to private in a risk-free market, which is what you do with the right forces in other countries, like you do with the water network, like you do with the sewer network, like you do with different Community tasks, where you can invest and get almost risk-free profit. It is at the heart of this – an ideologically driven project that neither contributes to good technical solutions nor innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1179	When I heard the post of the representative Giske, I must say that it seemed almost as if the Workers' Party were in favour of prohibiting non-public ownership of the Norwegian power grid. It has not been the Labour Party for the past, in which case it is new tones. On the contrary, Norwegian energy legislation opens up hundreds of percent of private ownership in lower networks, as if in a short time the whole regional network, the entire distribution network. I live well with that. I wasn't aware that the Workers' Party was against it. In dealing with this case, the size has said that network customers should not bear costs for land investments through increased network rentals. I think that is reasonably predictable, and I think that is quite right. When it comes to the question of why the private is so important, it's precisely because the two cables we're now building have a total cost of about 15 billion. kr. I am happy to say that very much of the 15 billion ports in the Norwegian supplier industry, among others. in NEXAN, Halden. But it's a cost of 15 billion. kr. Getting private to share this risk, taking this risk, I think it makes sense. It should not be surprising that the three-four parties behind this now believe so. It is an ideological dividing line in Norwegian policy. However, it contributes to both risk-absorption and to the development of new and smarter ways of building this type of infrastructure. In this case, one of the non-governmental actors at European level who have already built up intermediate trading capacity is our own State network, which is, in itself, a state-owned enterprise, but which has not laid that cable between Norway and another country but between Sweden and continental Europe. So there are models for implementing this. I am sure that we will also be able to find a sensible way to manage how normal returns and revenues beyond normal returns can be attributed to the community and the transmission network in the future. As I said, everyone knows about the project between Norway and the United Kingdom, and so far it's the only project in which there's anything to do, but even that project is a long way from implementation, and we've been clear that it makes sense to wait until we see that the two we have under construction come into operation before we give more concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1191	There are two things I need to address. One is the assertion from the Council of State that the government and the majority are doing now is exactly what the red-greens did in the last seven and a half years. It's a difference of essence, and it's that before and during the time we crashed, all the interterrestrial connections had been driven and built out of the state and the community. So cable proposals came up driven by private actors, and we felt the need to say that it's actually not like we're going to facilitate them – all the objections that have come here from Marit Arnstad, Per Rune Henriksen and others today. If the government now reverses this and goes back to the Energy Act as it was before, you say the opposite. They say they came looking to build out private cables. That's the signal you're sending out today. That's when I think it's necessary for the government to think through consequences and what framework you're going to have for this. Let me give you one example of what it means to have monopoly: in terms of the tax-free system, everyone who's been to the Gardermo knows that there's one store that has the opportunity to sell all the tax-free products and has the monopoly on it. If you check the profits for Heinemann, you'll see how profitable it is. Then you see just how profitable it is to have monopoly and operate that way. It is exactly the same type of monopoly that you transfer at the moment you open up for private to operate inter-territorial connections. Then I would point out: who will lose in such a situation? Yes, there are others who can lose. Some may lose through increased costs of power. It's a possible loss. The second option is increased costs of increased network rental. The third option is that Statnett, which currently operates the other inter-national connections, can lose money on reduced revenues on its cables because you can get cables that pick up and operate in the same market. All of this is possible loss to the community. Those who can benefit from this are those who build out and get increased income from this. Then the question is, what does ‘social economy profitable’ mean? Well, that just means one thing, and that's that the revenue from the new cable owner is larger than the total losses of all the others. That means that what the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left add up to now is a system where Norwegian electricity customers can lose, Norwegian grid tenants can lose, Statnett – in other words the community – can lose as long as the private company that receives monopoly serves more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1205	I actually don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1209	I think it is a bit striking that both the Right and the Advance Party are now choosing to resign from the debate. It may be because of a lack of good arguments or answers to all the unanswered questions that lie in the cold water of the matter, which is the cause of it – or simply because they lack arguments, as the Council of State did, which had to use the argument that it does not always rain in Bergen, to justify the proposed amendment that was promoted. It's quite striking, and it's most amazing. It is quite obvious that this case lacks a response. The consequences of the changes are not an answer to either how the cost allocation is to be made, how the underlying network, i.e. the national network, may be incurred, and how it will turn out for Norwegian network customers. There's no answer, there's no analysis, and it's striking that there's a lack of arguments here to justify it. There is no doubt that there is a significant difference. There is almost black-and-white between having Statnet as owner of the foreign tables and having a private investor or a renewable energy producer in Norway as a net investor in these international connections. Statnett has overall responsibility for balancing Norwegian power supply and the physical control and control of that system. That they are the owner of foreign connections is actually quite natural if the purpose is energy security and a stable and secure energy supply in Norway. A private net investor or a net investor that has production as its object also has one purpose — one purpose — and that is to maximise the return on investment made. He will do everything in his power to increase exports and imports, maximum use of the cable, and at the highest price possible. In addition to all the instruments, he wants to avoid taking costs that are borne on the underlying network – Norwegian electricity customers are being charged. So the situation related to power prices, which the representative Odd Henriksen is in. He says there's someone who blows up the arguments that the power price will increase. We in the Labour Party Committee have not done so in any way. But it remains that the Right and Advance Party can guarantee that the electricity price will not increase as a result, and that Norwegian electricity customers and network customers will not be charged costs. But those guarantees don't come. This proposal is very poorly investigated, and even the Council of State does not know exactly what he is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1223	It was the representative Holmås who made me ask for the word. He points out that it is a potential loss in three areas by actually building a power cable. He points to increased network leases by strengthening the underlying network; he points out that the value of existing cables can potentially decrease if a new cable is built, and he points out that a cable has a positive and negative impact on the power price – potentially also with an increase in the power price. I would say that if he had talked about Statnett building another cable, he would have been right in all three areas. With the assumptions made by the Storting that the construction of a private foreign table should not impose additional costs on the online customers, he had been entitled to only two of them when developing a private operator. Obviously, the bigger and more demanding the bottleneck, the more bottleneck revenues there will be on that cable. For each cable we build new to the Western European market, the marginal value of the cables that are already there is weakened. It is therefore not affected by whether it is built by Statnett or by a private operator. It does not in any way mean that it contributes to the project becoming socially unprofitable all the time you have other positive effects, either in our power system or in the power systems in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1229	I believe we have explained in detail in the proposition that it is not that if Statnet is going to build and operate transmission networks in Norway and some of the foreign tables, they are not going to have anything to do with the other foreign tables. On the contrary, we write in the proposition that it is quite natural that Statnett also has a clear role to play in bringing forward new projects outside of Statnett. It is obvious that it is Statnet that has the best assumptions to assess how new trading capacity affects the Norwegian power system. I am sure that Statnet will act as and will be seen as a neutral actor even when they carry out tasks in cooperation with actors who want to build any private intermediate trading capacity for electricity. But I think that, as I said, it's thoroughly explained in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1232	Of course, I could have said that I agree with the Council of State, and «residually my case». But we're inside a system and an area that's heavily regulated. It's not like there's free movement and free flow for anyone when it comes to our network and the system that we've built up. What we're doing now is we're opening up a foreign table for people other than Statnet. It has not been said that a single new foreign table will be added, because of course it will be subject to concession treatment, and it is through concession treatment that one has to go through the conditions to see if it can be reasonable to do from a socio-economic perspective. That's what's at stake here. After all, we can't get out of this interlocutory with the concessional treatment itself. I am absolutely sure that with the tradition that we have, and the rights that we have built up over many years, we are able to regulate this in such a way that it benefits the community. We've done that before, and we're still going to do that in the years that come. The way the world looks today, it could come up with new opportunities. There are many new systems that emerge, and then we think it makes sense, in a perspective where we both need to safeguard the climate and co-existence with others and supply electricity to the continent, that there is an opportunity for others to develop new systems that allow us to achieve what we are all looking for, namely to have a European power system that reduces CO2 emissions. I could mention many examples of things that could be reasonable to do. In offshore wind, you may also want to develop with other countries, where there is a need for foreign tables, and where it may make sense that others are building them up and operating them, compared to what is happening today. What we believe is that precisely by giving it the opening, by giving it the opportunity, new opportunities are created that we do not see today – and when we see the change that we are making today, along with the change we made in the Energy Act in March, we believe that we have rigged an energy law that will take us forward and not backwards in the future. I am absolutely sure that the regulatory authorities that we have today in the ministry are able to make the necessary assessments and adjustments so that this does not impose any costs on the community, and if you were to be allowed to add a cable to the rest of the world, it would also be natural that the reinforcements needed in today's transmission network must be carried by those who are going to put the cable, so that the other customers do not end up with the bill. We've done that before, I'm sure we'll get back to it, as said by having a long and good tradition to regulate this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1247	It is interesting to hear the Council of State in this debate and compare it with what the Party of Advances said before the elections in 2013, in particular. Ketil Solvik-Olsen stressed that he was not against power trading abroad, but it had to be done in a way that did not give Norwegian power customers higher electricity bills. So now you have some pious desire that this not lead to it, and you have a pious desire to take in super-profit with some kind of tax – the quote council. I agree with the Council of State in one thing, and it's that he says that this is ideology, this is ideological choice. I think that's a clean word for the money. This is privatisation for the sake of privatisation. It's getting rid of private investors in an area where you're guaranteed profit, and what you're taking out of profit is, of course, money that would benefit the community. That money would have gone somewhere if it wasn't for private investors to have an extra profit. The council is probably pretty far down in the basement when he starts talking about the Workers' Party being suddenly going to have public ownership of all the networks in Norway. I also think he should answer why his proposals contribute to more innovation. Once again, does the majority really appreciate what they're going to put out? How many innovative ways is it to own a power cable – how many innovative ways is it to operate and own this foreign table? It is not the laying of the foreign table that is to be outsourced to private — it is already done by private individuals. There are a dozen, perhaps hundreds, actors involved in many parts of the development – suppliers, subcontractors and their subcontractors. If you want Statnet to be even wider in this respect, you can engage in dialogue with them on how they make their tenders – you can do it in many different ways. What you have to collect is private capital. The council says you have to have risk relief, but he has to decide. Either it's risk relief, or it's super-profit. You don't have to have a risk-relief on a superprofit. So you could imagine going in and getting risk-absorbing on investments because the government lacked money. But the state does not lack investment capital – even as roughly as the Progress Party provides the oil fund, we have quite a good opportunity to take this cost ourselves and thus both secure the income and get the expenses distributed and do it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1257	I think the Council of State still lacks answers to what these positive effects are. I also think he is very unclear about the role of Statnett, because he says that Statnett will still be perceived as a neutral actor who will go in cooperation with those who are now going to build this privately. But Statnett will still be the owner of some foreign tables. Statnet may be a competitor in some of these tenders, so one must also define what kind of new role Statnet will have when they are to be both a neutral actor and at the same time one of the competitors of the private ones who are going to run away with this superprofit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1260	I think this has become a debate with very many questions and very few answers, and the questions you get answer you in a completely different way – one does not answer the question, one answers something completely different. When, for example, points out that the central network is publicly owned, state councils start talking about the distribution network or lower networks as a rhetorical act rather than answering public and private questions. As the representative Geske also says, there is a large cost of development, and a majority argument is obvious that a person should use private resources to share the cost of development. There could have been a valid argument in countries with a lack of investment capital. The state of Norway does not. It is possible for Norway to expand this under public control, if we want to. The representative Henriksen was concerned that we might need cables connected to offshore wind etc. Yes, I think many of us believe that it may occur in the years to come. That is not the subject of today's debate. It's about whether we're going to build cables in public or private. It has been said that Statnett will also have extensions in lower networks that can lead to increased network rentals. Yeah, I think so. If they're going to expand, it'll also lead to it, but it's clear that we've already seen Statnet return a good share of the profits they have to customers in terms of reduced rent. But the most important thing I think the council said in its last post, because then he said that there is no haste with this, there is no cable with the first. NorthConnect isn't coming tomorrow, it'll be another while. I agree with that, and that is the best argument that one could actually have solved some of the questions that have been asked here today – what is really in the concept of ‘super-profit’, how to design plant contributions, and all the other questions that we have not been given an answer to. That is why it is very unfortunate that the majority in the European Parliament today rushes through a decision where they do not have the ability to respond to very significant operational problems, the profitability of this cable and the costs associated with it, while at the same time saying that we have a good time. Yes, but then we can take some time, then one didn't have to make that decision here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1274	The positioning parties are trying to get this to be about whether or not to be for foreignables, and it is well represented by the committee leader, Ola Elvestuen, who also mentions only the power demand, and that Norway should be the much-mentioned green battery. But nobody disagrees with us about having power cables. This is about whether it is to be developed privately or not. It is like the widely mentioned quote from the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party that the cost should not be passed on to ordinary power customers over the network lease. It is almost as credible as Henriksen is saying, and in line with the fact that the Progress Party is going to vote for increased fuel charges, and they are going to vote for increased toll charges, even if you are rhetorical about it. Some people have to take the cost of this superprofit. What you don't get into tax cuts is to be distributed into superprofits. What's the main reason for this right here? Is that we need a higher degree than 30 pst. capacity in exchanges on the network? Is it, as many people have said, that we are short of capital? I believe the name of this line is going to be ‘The Missing Link’ and it actually sums up the whole argument of the positioning parties – why the representatives of the Progress Party have not even signed up, and why Right-wing political figures in the field do not even sign up. There are no logical, reasonable arguments. That is only ideological arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1280	It is not unique to these parties in this Parliament. This is what goes on in all parliaments when the Right and the Advance Party's sister parties come to power. There are large tax cuts aimed at those who have the most already – in the wealth tax – well-being cuts, now represented by the weakest in society. It is ideologically based privatisations, the continuous dismantling of state ownership and the distrust of state ownership. It is represented by the fact that, in previous budgetary procedures, another company, State power, funds, then to withdraw it, make it totally unpredictable to operate and count on projects, and a lot of work has to be done. This means that now, without a single rational argument, one intends to impose on ordinary people in Norway and industry the bill for superprofits of operating a cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1283	It's not the first time this government has presented a bill that very many people are opposed to. It's not just a powerful minority that is opposed to this legislative change, it's the Competition Authority, it's the Consumer Ombudsman, it's the Norwegian Industry, it's the LO. It's Industry Energy – plus more professionals who have been out there warning of the law change. It is also not the first time that the government has submitted ill-founded legislative proposals. As the representative Geske legitimately stated: When the vice-leader of the Progress Party guaranteed in the autumn of 2013 and was very clear that the power customers would not have to pay for the power trade abroad, he actually gave the Norwegian people a guarantee. But we are familiar with the guarantees of the Advance Party and that they were largely gone when they came into government. But it is good to know a little about the guarantees. Will the electricity price increase, or can the Council of State guarantee that it will not? Will the network costs of Norwegian electricity customers increase, or can the State Council guarantee that this will not happen? Will the value creation actually increase by such a change, or will it actually be unchanged or reduced? They use words that value creation will increase. Can the Council of State guarantee that? Can the Council of State guarantee that industrial opportunities and the basis for value creation in Norway will be strengthened by the existing legislative amendment? And can the Council of State guarantee that the role of Statnett as a system operator will not be weakened as a result of the proposed amendment? There are very many clear questions, but no answers from the government. Now it's time for the Council of State to give some clear answers, give some clear guarantees and say what's meant, what's meant, and what's the consequences. Should power prices increase, should network costs increase, or does the State Council guarantee that it does not? And does he also guarantee the basis of industry in a future image where the value creation potential of Norwegian renewable energy is significantly shifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1295	The representative of Otterstad thought that I had made this matter a matter of whether or not we should have more foreign tables. Then I must have explained myself unclearly, for my whole point was the very opposite, that this is not about whether or not to have more foreign tables. That decision lies in the concession treatment, and we have full control of that concession treatment by the public authorities. It is also the case how to drive these foreign tables – it was the representative of Aasland who mentioned it. You have to have a system operation agreement with Statnet in order to have the same control over these as on the other foreign tables – it has to be operated in the same way. On the left hand side, we've never said that we're going to be some green battery for Europe. We have a lot of hydropower in Norway, but we probably don't have so much in the vicinity that we can take that role. On the contrary, I have been concerned that as the power market develops in other countries as it does in us, this will be essentially a real exchange and not an export from the Norwegian side. On the other hand, what we are concerned about, something that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås mentioned, is that this leads to more power driving in the Norwegian power system, with the consequences it provides for, among other things. the diversity of nature and the quality of the Norwegian watercourses, which I also think we need to look at. And it's completely independent of who owns foreign tables. It has what changes we are going through when we get more renewable energy and more unregulated renewable energy into the power system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1305	This is definitely not about whether we should have foreign tables. That decision shall be taken at a later date. Even though we're letting go to other people than Statnet, this is really a pervasive area, also regulated by decisions that we're going to take in the years to come. Of course, with regard to the extraordinary performance you can get, there is something that you also need to have a clear regulation of, and something that we have therefore put in an additional proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1308	First, green battery. I think that gives a picture of the Norwegian power system that doesn't reflect reality at all. It is a concept that has been introduced in the European word change by former foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre, current party leader in the Workers' Party, and he may be able to answer how he came up with that concept. I believe that the representative of Aasland in his post once again snuggles together the basic question of whether private people should be allowed to build foreign tables, and whether we should build more foreign tables. We have made a thorough reference – several references to today – to the fact that bottlenecks from, for example: The NorNed cable makes a net contribution in the time it has been in operation, of minus 600 million. NOK in transmission network rental to Norwegian consumers. So to the extent that that kind of profit, that is, super-profit, would arise, we've pointed out that the bulk of the population has pointed out that the cost of building this type of cable is not going to affect the transmission network customers – that is, 100 pst. plant contributions. We have a long tradition in this country to operate at standard rates. There will be no problem getting into this as well, and the Storting will probably decide today that we will come back with a case to the Stortinget where these questions, in particular this with normative interest and super-profit, are clarified. Installation contributions have already been fixed by Stortinget to ensure that no additional costs are incurred by transmission network customers. Can we guarantee this that a notional foreign table will influence the power price at some future time or not? Of course, it's completely impossible, but what I can guarantee is that it's the capacity of the cable that determines whether and how one affects the power price, not who gives it. So I believe the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås had a very good point. He pointed out that we have exported volume earlier – in the future, effect will become much more important. And you don't have to be very far out on the right side of market-oriented parties in Norway to understand that if you buy something cheap, like excess wind and sun, and sell when it's expensive, when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow, it's a good business model, I mean, regardless of ideological standing. If you shut down a product, if you shut down gas exports, our gas price goes down. If you dig a big hole in the E6, the price of fish in North Norway goes down, but it weakens the value creation and the ability to finance the welfare state in the future. So I think the representative of Elvesuen had a very good point. This is a well-regulated area, where Norwegian energy authorities have full control over who gets the concession and not, and what conditions they get the concession. It will not change no matter what the Storting had to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1323	I'll just try to sum up the debate. At my discretion, the debate has not answered any of the objections raised by the minority to the amendment of the law. To begin with, what the Council of State concluded with: this is a transcribed area. Yes, there are regulations made and designed in view of the fact that the transmission system operator owns and operates the entire transmission system, including the transfer requirements to the rest of the world. Therefore, there is a lack of regulation of the allocation of revenues and costs when inputting other than Statnets in this area. That's what we've said as one of our most important arguments, and we've asked the government to come back with a case. I was somewhat encouraged when the Council of State said that they would come back with a case, and I would like to have a clarification: does that mean that you will then go into the proposal for a decision that is under B in the vote, where we ask the government to come back with a case before the law enters into force? Or does that mean that one leans on the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, where ‘the government is appropriately asked to explain how any extraordinary income from foreign relations owned and operated by operators other than the system operator may be attributed to the Community’? It is in the case of a decision that – let us say – has little value for those who pay rent in the Norwegian transmission network, and we know that all electricity customers in Norway do. The representative Odd Henriksen says that this can create opportunities that we don't see today. At least I don't see any possibilities today. It is possible that something like this may occur once in the future, but I do not understand the urgency. The attitude of the majority in this matter is most marked by faith, hope and love. There is faith and hope that the government will somehow miraculously be able to find some way to prevent all the negative effects pointed out by the opposition in this regard. But the strongest of them all is the love, the love of market liberalism, which precedes absolutely everything in this matter. This is a purely ideological grip, which will be able to impose large costs on the Norwegian power system and on Norwegian power consumers, major disadvantages. And that's just sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1352	No one has asked for the floor. After it had been called to vote, said : Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1517	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 4, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 6, by Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens proposal No 7, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 8-11, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 12, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of pre-payment road pricing for all heavy goods vehicles, as an alternative to the current fuel user charge, to strengthen rail and sea’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1561	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to require all supply ships to operate in Norwegian waters to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2018.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to require all cruise ships to operate in Norwegian waters to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2019.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of differentiated port charges in order to promote the use of shore electricity and renewable fuels in shipping.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a CO 2 tax without a refund scheme for the fishing fleet, with the possibility for the industry to enter into an agreement on a model of the NO x fund in order to implement reductions in emissions. The payment is differentiated according to the size of the vessel and the smallest part of the fishing fleet is favoured by increasing the deduction of the fish.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1599	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the best available technology in terms of fuel and emission technologies for all supply-lift vehicles operating on Norwegian base, and for gradual demands for the exclusive use of low- and zero-emission vessels up to 2030.’ [[BAT]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1616	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1621	Then there are 93 representatives who voted against the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, and 11 representatives who voted in favour. There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to impose strict environmental requirements on Plan for Development and Operation [[PUD]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1640	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to remove the possibility of using free-of-charge diesel for recreational craft.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1658	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Port Act to promote shore-side electricity solutions in Norwegian ports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1675	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the port and fairway charges tax regime, so that ships with zero and low-emission technologies can take advantage of lower rates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1707	It shall not be counted against II. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it. During the debate, the Left has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1721	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for appropriate measures to be taken by the Storting to increase the volume of orders and contribute to the development of more low- and zero-emission solutions for ships and how this will contribute to the 2030 target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst.’ The left has announced support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1740	It's going to wrestle over you. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have announced during the debate that they will support you. The President has reason to believe that you will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1784	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Odd Henriksen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adequately explain how any extraordinary revenues from international connections owned and operated by operators other than the system operator may be attributed to the Community.’ The Christian People's Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1831	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1843	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1857	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The majority asks the government to return to Stortinget with a case on rules for regulating the coverage of central network costs both on operation and investment as a result of new foreign connections, rules for the regulation of revenues from connections, rules for ownership distinction between production and foreign connections, and clarification of the role and organisation of Statnet in relation to private international connections, so that the Stortinget can treat them before a legislative change in the Energy Act § 4-2 enters into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1868	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1885	Case No. 5 concerns the second processing of legislative acts 1. There are no comments. The law of Stortingen 1 has thus been approved for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-10-18.ana.ud255e1991	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
