ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e43	The representatives Eirik Sivertsen and Sveinung Rotevatern, who have been licensed, have once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sickness leave for representatives Else-May Botten and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen from 10 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on sickness leave for the representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen and Morten Wold from 10 March onwards and until further notice from the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal on care leave from 10 March to 17 March respectively from the Group of the Advance Party on care leave for the representative Tor André Johnsen from 10 to 11 March Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the More and Romesdal counties, Eva Vinje Aurdal, have requested a waiver from the Stortinget meeting on 10 and 11 March and on 15 and 16 March under the permission of the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Lene LangemyrFor Buskerud counties: Tone Heimdal BrataasFor Hedmark counties: Hege JensenFor Moren and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve, Eva Vinje Aurdal and Kjell NeergaardFor Nordland counties: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e133	Lene Langemyr, Tone Heimdal Brataas, Hege Jensen, Tove Lise Torve, Kjell Neergaard and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e141	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e144	I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of the European Parliament Per Olaf Lundteigen, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself to step out of the decisions of the Schengen Convention on border control and introduce Norwegian border control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e149	The representative, Mr Tajik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e152	On behalf of Lene Vågslid, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt, Stine Renate Håheim, Kari Henriksen and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on national guidelines for children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e157	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e171	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e178	Animal welfare in Norwegian chicken production is an area in which there has been a strong focus and which has undergone a number of positive changes in recent years. I would like to thank the Greens for putting an important area in focus, and I would also like to thank the Committee for a thorough examination of the matter. In 2014, it was slaughtered at the base of 74 million chickens in Norway, according to figures from Animalia. Most of them are of the Ross 308, a fast-growing hybrid bred to make as much meaty as possible. While the sale of white meat has increased for many years, the industry is now experiencing reduced sales, and the economic situation of chicken farmers is challenging. The majority of the Committee notes that the industry itself has developed its own action plans for the Norwegian poultry industry and that it is working with the other Nordic countries to gain a breeding focus on healthy and robust animals. This is also the case for operating aid granted under the agricultural agreement. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Swedish Food Authority, the Swedish Veterinary Institute, the Norwegian Environmental and Bioscience Universities and Norwegian Poultryfelag met the international supplier in April 2013. The purpose of this meeting was for the Norwegian operators to clarify what they expected from the suppliers in terms of breeding work. In the supplier’s statement, it was briefed that they focus on good animal health in their work. Significant improvements have been made in the animal welfare field both in 2013 and 2014. Regulations have introduced stricter animal welfare requirements and the monitoring of chickens for fattening is also a priority task for the Food Safety Authority. The new rules include, inter alia: requirements for ventilation and heating in chickenhouses, the introduction of a programme of animal welfare in industry and the requirements for training in animal welfare for manufacturers. Important elements of the industry-led animal welfare programme are the requirements for a veterinary agreement for monitoring the health of the herds, the requirements for a KSL audit and the requirements for anomalies treatment and, where appropriate, the exclusion of producers from the programme. The aim of the amendments is to improve the welfare of chickens for fattening. The introduction of the Animal Welfare Programme provided new tools to address key challenges, such as improved bedding quality and improved environmental management skills in poultry houses. Crews with unsatisfactory well-being were given strong incentives, and at the same time help, to improve operations. The limit for the number of kilograms of animals per m2 was reduced from the previous 34 kg to 25 kg per m2. At the same time, it was possible to operate at a higher limit for those producers that deliver the best results on animal welfare. Nortura figures show that after the introduction of the animal welfare programme, the proportion of best category results increased from 91.4 pst. from the flocks in 2013 to 96,7 pst. of the flocks in 2014. The majority of the Committee does not consider it appropriate to prohibit the use of Ross 308 in Norwegian chicken production. Significant improvements in recent years have resulted in economically sustainable production in Norway based on sound animal welfare. With this, I recommend the Committee's position and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e205	I would like to express a positive attitude towards what the Greens are promising. I am not going to spend a long time on this matter, but I want to stress, that at least from the point of view of the Workers' Party, it is important not to let go of the active policy that I believe previous governments have had, and also the current government actually has, in order to ensure animal welfare. We see from the Labour Party that it is not right for the Storting to go in and decide what kind of animals you are going to use, and it seems unnatural to go in for the ban proposal in the case. At the same time, I would like to stress that the situation that is now outside of many chicken producers – I visited one yesterday at the latest in Hedmark – is a rather difficult operational situation for many. There's a different debate than the one outlined here, but some of the tension points have these issues, in my opinion. The importance for animal welfare of increased volume and, as a result of the deterioration of the operating economy, may also be important. That is the background to the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party that we want the government to re-examine the animal density and environmental coverage requirements for chickens for slaughter in order to ensure that the animal welfare requirements of the Animal Welfare Act are met and not least to meet consumers' expectations for good animal welfare. We believe that this is necessary now, and that is why I am addressing the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e216	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e219	It is important to stress that animal welfare is important – I believe for all parties in this room. That is why we also have a code of animal welfare that is very strict, and to which most people are agreed and related. Norwegian production and consumption of chicken have increased considerably in recent years. And as mentioned here earlier, it was slaughtered at the base of 74 million chickens in Norway in 2014. This means that every person in Norway from 0 to 100 years has eaten 14 chickens each this year. It means that Norwegian chicken is popular and white meat is popular in Norway. There are some people who don't eat chicken. Some of the reasons why it might be ethical dilemmas. It is true that if many people choose not to eat a product, there is no basis for the production and sale of that product. Then, of course, there will be no reason to produce it. The consumer power is great – we have to remember that. Therefore, it is also important to note that most people in Norway are happy with chicken, they eat chicken, and they want chicken. I also believe that most people are aware that we have a strict regulatory framework in Norway that ensures animal welfare in a good way. If a change is to be made to the legislation, it is necessary to amend the legislation on a professional basis and not on the grounds that a person likes or dislikes it. You might say that it's a part you don't like, but forbiding it means that the undersigned is completely wrong. That the state should decide everything according to the like-or-not-like-principle, I believe is wrong. We've also had examples that someone will ban red meat. Now we're going to ban chicken. Then the question is what's next. There are some people who think that some questions can be asked about whether Ross 308, i.e., the chicken variant Ross 308 as a chickens for fattening, breaks with the breeding paragraph. I think the Food Authority will evaluate that every day on the basis of the legislation they have. So far, I cannot see that the legislation is such that there is any basis for banning it. Therefore, the signed party and the Advance Party will not be in favour of any prohibition. There is no reason for us to have a ban, and that is why we should not have a ban. It is important that a continuous review of the legislation in place to ensure good animal welfare so that we have ethical guidelines and animal welfare rules that allow us to have good animal production, not only in the production of chicken, but also in other animal production. I'm glad that the majority in this room take the decision we're now making – let's not ban a production because we don't like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e238	Animal welfare shall be a supporting element in how we produce food in Norway. This also applies in the case of breeding. Breeding has given us the opportunity to develop characteristics of chicken that make it possible to produce more food faster. This is a good one, but it doesn't make us use this option uncritically. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that Norwegian Springfelag is receiving operating support from the agricultural agreement, which enables them to work for increased Nordic cooperation and to influence breeding work in international companies. This proposal for a representative proposes the phasing out of the Ross 308 chicken breed, which is the most common breed in Norwegian chicken production, as well as in Europe and the United States. The Christian People's Party is basically not negative about it being transformed into other races, but we have confidence that the individual producer is in a position to evaluate this for himself. Therefore, it is difficult to see that a ban should be the right way to go. It will also be a major step in the industry to ban a given breed that is currently the most widely used. It is also apparent from the State Council letter to Stortinget that other breeds are available and used, among others. in organic production. Animal welfare is a continuous work and further improvements have been made in the animal welfare field in both 2013 and 2014. Changes in the rules include: requirements for ventilation and heating in chickenhouses, the introduction of a programme of animal welfare in industry and the requirements for training in animal welfare for manufacturers. These are important elements, and important elements of the sectoral animal welfare programme are required for a veterinary agreement for the monitoring of health in the herd. The Christian People's Party believes these are important measures that have improved animal welfare. The Christian People's Party is for a farm with varied farm sizes and believes this is a strength for Norwegian agriculture, and the chicken industry is no exception here. In contrast to many other countries, Norway has maintained an industry consisting of both small and medium-sized producers. This has helped us to avoid the intensive production that can be seen in the United States and Europe, where chicken production is more reminiscent of factory production than agriculture. So finally, the Christian People's Party did not agree with the government and the Left's decision to double the concession limits for chicken in 2014. This occurred during a period of fall in sales, resulting in an overcapacity that has created market imbalances and the related declining economy for the farmer. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norwegian chicken production also in the future is subject to strict requirements for animal welfare, a scattered structure and low medical use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e253	Good animal welfare is important and must be taken care of in modern animal husbandry. Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian chicken producers produce high-quality and low-medical chicken, good animal health and good animal welfare. One of the main quality stamps of the poultry industry is that one has been able to be salmonella-free. It can be pointed to a number of factors that make this possible: we have had strict legislation, we have had good supervision, we have had competent and proud farmers and good veterinarians, we have had healthy attitudes among farmers and veterinarians in limiting the use of antibiotics, and we have had – and have – an agriculture with relatively small units and distributed production. Animal welfare in the production of chicken has gradually increased. There is a development that will continue, and consumers must of course have the opportunity to make informed choices — whether they want to have it as a ‘common’ chicken or whether they want more slow-growing chickens. But we must also recognise that Norwegian chicken production is exposed to competition from abroad. A reduction in Norwegian production in favour of imports is not good for either people, chicken or agriculture. As far as the proposal of the Workers' Party is concerned, the question is whether this is the time. The industry should be given time to deliver on the current intensifications and animal welfare programmes. It is important to stress that Norway’s role in influencing international breeding is important. In the setting, I have chosen to link a note to Left's chicken policy. First, the Left Party participates in an ideologically motivated doubling of the concession limits for chicken. This occurred in a falling market, and the Left and Government parties have thus, with open eyes, contributed to bringing a number of chicken farmers with families into a financial situation. However, some have opted for plans to invest in double the size of chicken houses. What do they now experience? Well, they sense that the left has suddenly come to realize that someone now wants to take out the chicken that they had planned to use in production – a chicken that otherwise is half-sister or half-brother of the chicken that the left now wants to use. This creates unforeseeableness. I believe that it is unprofessional to do this, and therefore absolutely necessary to point out. And it's not that the new norm is that it's 25 kilograms per m2. You might say, but the new norm is that it's up to 36 kilograms per m2. There is also no link between the intensification of animal welfare and the need to increase or double the concession limits. Good animal welfare and low drug use shall continue to be a characteristic of Norwegian food production. Animal welfare in chicken production is demanding. However, the objective must be that Norway should be at the international forefront of animal welfare in all productions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e274	There is reason to thank the proposer for a good proposal for a representative, which is the starting point for an important debate. The Left Party shares the Green Party's commitment to strengthening animal welfare and believes it is regrettable that the majority in this Chamber do not want to go beyond what they do in this matter. There are major health and animal welfare challenges with the Ross 308 chicken breed. In this context, I would like to refer to the criticism brought by the Animal Ethics Council, which points out that the chicken’s enormous appetite and growth – which, of course, in isolation, is an advantage for the nutritionist – leads to many of the chickens having bone problems and circulation problems. The development of skeletal and sensitiser, heart and blood vessels simply cannot keep pace with the increase in muscle mass. In Ross 308, the genetic system has been changed so that the animal's mental and physical functions are adversely affected. This causes the animal’s playroom for natural behavior to be greatly reduced. One might ask questions about whether this is in line with the animal welfare laws' requirement that animals with a genetic disposition should not be released for health disorders or poor function, i.e. the animal's ability to move and act normally. It's why Left's view that the chicken breed Ross 308 should be staggered over time. Of course, this is not something that you can or should do overnight, but the chicken diet should be stimulated to gradually move over to the use of breeds that provide somewhat lower intensity and production but better animal welfare. AgriAnalyse has provided a breakdown of the costs of e.g.: switching from Ross 308 to Rowan 308, a hybrid breed that provides better animal welfare, and the cost increase is estimated to be 5 pst. Of course, it's not insignificant for a businessman, but it's far from unsurpassed. To illustrate: such a cost directly to the consumer will lead to a two-kron increase in prices for a whole grilled chicken. Then I notice that the Left and the Government in the form of a note are criticised for the increase in the concession limits for chicken production carried out on our watch. That criticism seemed very malplaced. Even if we've made it possible for chicken farmers to drive bigger, and actually be able to be chicken farmers all the time, the animal density will not be increased by the regulation change. On the contrary, the boundaries were tightened up for those farmers who could not point to good animal welfare, and there were stricter requirements for veterinary visits, which collectively meant that, for example, the Animal Protection Alliance was also positive to the change that was made. Letting farmers run all the time is not negative for animal welfare, rather the opposite. The requirements for standard density in Norwegian chickenhouses are in line with the Scientific Committee on Food Safety that it should be, but to achieve a somewhat lower density should nevertheless be an objective, and not least it should be an objective to ensure better environmental benefit in chickenhouses, but if such an environmental gain is to have any purpose, it is actually dependent on operating with a chicken breed that is able to benefit from that environmental benefit, and not a chicken breed that because of breeding has difficulties in obtaining an end to its natural needs. In conclusion, the left was criticised by the representative Pollestad in his previous post and also in the committee position to the effect that we apparently create a lack of ownership for Norwegian chicken production. I agree that if you want nothing to happen in Norwegian agriculture, it is probably the best thing to vote in the Centre Party. But vote on the Left, get one exactly what's in our party program: a party that makes strict demands on animal welfare, and that honors the farmers who have good animal welfare, by allowing them to drive bigger and work all the time in the industry. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the position that the Left is behind, and I would like to inform you that we will subsidly support proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, which I perceive is almost identical to our proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e295	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e298	First, thank you to the proposer who has put an important theme on the file card. SV supports the concern of the proposer about animal welfare in the production of chicken. Chicken has amazing good meat, is a real all right poultry, is popular as hobby activity in many, is a flock animal, loves to dig in the ground and look for small insects and seeds, and makes really cute curly sounds when they're lying on their eggs. It's a nice picture, in line with the picture of the cow on the meadow, the Norwegian agriculture as we like to think it is. In Norway, for the most part, we have been able to keep our meat production within the animal protection framework, and the vast majority of animals in Norwegian meat production are doing well. But in some areas we have somehow crossed a border within the production of chicken, where we have to ask ourselves: have we come so far here in Norway that we have forgotten that the chicken is also an animal with the right to a dignified life? Why do we not seem to be able to assume that the way we house these animals together, with major health problems, like herring in the barrel of a digger hall, is not compatible with good animal welfare? We weigh 5 kroner per chicken to be more important than the chicken's health. How did it get yours, this little chicken? The price that it has to pay before it comes to the dinner table is then to the degrees subordinate to the price that the consumer has to pay in the box at Rema or Coop, that it is not even worth paying a few extra kroner for. Now it has to be said that there may be more than just a change of chicken grass in the production that is to come before we reach the goal of a chicken production with good animal welfare. But the focus on what kind of breeding material we use is at least a little step in the right direction. That is what is at issue today. In further work, it is also important to focus on turning to more organic farming, which is the only dangerous way – in our view – to take good account of animal welfare. Ross 308 has a neighbor. That neighbor shares some challenges with Ross 308. He's struggling with abnormally large muscles. This means that he has some problems moving normally. The neighbor is seen as a monster in meat production, but he's nice enough to give a lot of meat for the money. Madam neighbour, the birthing of children is largely associated with so many difficulties that Caesarean intersections are the solution for most people. The neighbor's name is Belgian blue and is cattle. The Animal Welfare Act Section 25 states that breeding should promote properties that provide robust animals with good function and health. Breeding which alters the genetic system shall not adversely affect the physical or mental functions of animals, or which continues to carry on such genetic facilities, or which reduces the ability of animals to practice natural behaviour. On the basis of these provisions, the neighbour of Ross 308 — Belgian blue — is not permitted in breeding in Norway and is therefore not a significant part of Norwegian cattle production. It is easy to focus most on the conditions of the chickens in the manufacturing trade that will be for dinner for us. The fact that these animals live in terrible short periods of time under these conditions may help to minimize the actual conditions surrounding an industrial production. But to get all these thousands of chickens, we have to have some breeding animals. So how do these guys have it, really, if that's how they can't get the food they need because it could make them grow too big? When heart problems and other health problems are known for this breed, how can we allow further breeding on it? In the bovine sector, we have been able to take the animal protection reservations and give priority to animal welfare. Why is it so hard to do the same in chicken production? I wonder. We in SV believe that this case has shown that there is a need to get more knowledge about the actual conditions of chicken production and use of Ross 308. Therefore, the SV in the discussion promotes a proposal that the government undertakes an independent and animal welfare study of the welfare of chicken production in general, and the use of the Ross 308 chicken breed in particular. I bring this up with SV's proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Chicken is good and healthy food, and SV wants Norwegian consumers to feel confident that the Norwegian chicken we buy in the store is good – that the consumer does not have to have ethical concerns about eating it. Therefore, it is a pity that the Stortinget did not seem to support the proposals that are on the table today, which could have been a step in the right direction to ensure a chicken production more according to our own law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e320	The representative Siv Elin Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e323	The size adopted in 2009 an animal protection law which clearly states that animals should be kept in line with the needs of the species, that they should be active and that they should be able to thrive. The same law says we're not going to cultivate properties that give you poor animal health. Anyone who has seen what chicken and chicken do when they do what they want must agree that chicken and chicken are allowed to do in chicken production, has little to do with the needs of the species. The Greens recognise that the poultry industry itself is actively working to improve animal welfare. Checks on wooden cushions, technical requirements in the chickenhouses, etc. is good, but the proposal we are debating now faces more fundamental challenges. The Ross 308 chicken is bred to grow so fast that it is genetically disposed of for bone and heart disease. That's why exercise and activity are especially important. So instead, the Storting has allowed for increased chicken density and has increased the concession limit. Chickens never see daylight before going to the slaughterhouse and have small activity possibilities. The parental regeneration of the Ross 308 production must – unlike the chickens for fattening – necessarily become biological adults in order to produce chickens. It requires that they grow much slower than the breeds and chickens are disposed of, and therefore they are actively starved to avoid growing in the heel. This is literally embedded in the Ross 308, and with all due respect for the measures in the industry, it's hard to see how this can be solved with such a race. The production of chickens has become an example of the fact that the demand for efficient food production has pushed breeding and animal husbandry to the edge of the law we have adopted in the Storting and the consumer accepts it. The demand for ever cheaper and more meat has pushed us across ethical boundaries. It's time to turn focus to more quality, to less drug use and to better animal welfare. Animal welfare in agriculture depends on both race, environment and supervision. Therefore, we have proposed to ask the government to start work on phasing out the extremely growing Ross 308 chicken breed in favour of a more slow-growing breed, and to ask the government to reduce the animal density, as recommended by the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, and to ensure a better environment in the chicken halls. We are pleased that the SV and the Left agree with us in both proposals, and that the Workers' Party supports a clearer political effort to improve the situation in the chicken houses. The proposals from the Labour Party, the Left and the SV are very similar to ours, and of course we support these proposals. The use of the Ross 308 chicken breed, which is most common at the dinner plates in Norway, challenges the law that this room has adopted. It puts us in some dilemmas since we do not have our own breeding in Norway and have to borrow from breeding work abroad, but there are thus chicken breeds that are healthier and are already used on a smaller scale in Norway. We understand the industry's concern for imports and international competition. We have also asked AgriAnalyse and Stortinget's investigation department to assess the costs of our proposals, and we also come to results that show a small increase in the price per chicken in the store. We believe that with good information Norwegian consumers are fully willing to pay for the chicken they eat, if they know it has a better life. We also understand the challenges our proposals pose for Norwegian poultry feeding, but at the same time Stortinget needs to take its own law seriously. There have been concerns in this debate about what the State should decide and not decide. Well, the state has a law that says something about how chicken in Norway should feel. The question is how long we are going to talk away from the fact that today's chicken production obviously does not comply with this law. The Norwegian poultry industry will, sooner or later, have to choose a different route from an ever-increasing efficiency. Higher quality and animal welfare through more slow-growing breeds is a step in the right direction. I take this up with me the proposals that the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e344	The President sees no proposals from the Green Party other than those promoted in the document itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e347	Like the Greens, I am busy that animal welfare in chicken production is going to be good. Animal welfare is preserved and worked independently of chicken variants. Developments in relation to operational and animal welfare factors in chicken production have been significant in recent years. The breeding targets for today’s chickens for fattening are broad to ensure that the growth rate is balanced against the characteristics related to health and well-being. Records in poultry herds and slaughterhouses show, according to Nortura, no significant differences in animal health and animal welfare between Ross 308 and the more slowly increasing variant of normal slaughter weights. A statutory phase-out of Ross 308 in favour of slow-growing variants and/or the introduction of requirements for the lower density of animals means that the profitability of Norwegian chicken production is weakened, and it paves the way for increased imports of product with lower animal welfare and food safety standards than current Norwegian chicken production. Animal health among Norwegian chickens is among the best in the world, which includes: is shown by the low use of drugs. High standards in Norwegian broiler production have also made it possible to start work on phasing out routine feed additions to the antiparasitic agent, while maintaining good animal health and animal welfare. In order to obtain good results in chicken production, one depends on the animals being able to take out their growth potential without jeopardising functional function. This is decisive both for the economy of the chicken farmer and for product quality. Health challenges related to high growth rates, e.g. bone and circulatory disorders have composite causes where both genetics and environmental factors can work. Systematic records in poultry flocks and slaughterhouses show, according to Nortura, that the extent of such problems is low in current chicken production. This is due to a breeding work that balances the growth rate with the functioning of animals. Follow-up of the chicken farmer in relation to operations and the environment also takes place. Registrations in Nortura's chicken control show the matching mortality rates for Ross 308 and the more slowly increasing variant Rowan 308. The talk of mortality is low in international contexts, and that's what we're being measured against. In 2013, an animal welfare programme for chickens for fattening was established and anchored in animal welfare rules. The programme is developed and operated by the industry, but the content and compliance of the programme are assessed by the Food Authority. As a target of how well the chicken farmer creates a good environment for the animals, the slaughterhouse monitors the feet of the chicken for signs of deviation. The result has direct consequences for the animal density of the next kittens. Only those in the best category get the ability to produce with the highest density. As part of the animal welfare programme, the poultry industry is developing several indicators to improve monitoring of animal welfare in Norwegian chicken production. The industry is also committed to making the environment richer in chickenhouses to increase well-being and activity. Even if a producer is included in the programme, decisions may be taken by the Food Safety Authority in relation to poultry keeping supervision against the producer, regardless of whether violations of the rules are managed at the same time within the animal welfare programme. What I have said now shows, in sum, that we are on the right track when it comes to ensuring good animal welfare in chicken production. I am pleased that the majority in the committee have joined in the assessments I have made in my letter to the committee, and I am also pleased that one today will not adopt a ban on the most used breed in Norwegian chicken production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e369	In the case of double concession limits, it was said that this was an advantage because it would provide a basis for being a full-time farmer. So one knows that very many farmers just have chicken production together with other productions in order to be full-time farmers. The doubling of concession limits combined with market falls has resulted in many producers being bought out and having had to complete their production. My question to the Council of State is whether one looks like a sign that there are several who become full-time farmers because a double concession limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e374	The description of the cause hangs that there are now demanding times in the production of chicken, I think I am too simple. It started with a dramatic fall in demand, as a result of the discussion about antibiotic resistance in the chicken holder. This shows first of all that the consumer is actually very concerned about in Norway, is food security. For this reason, I believe that what we are dealing with today, simply banned from Ross 308 – which could weaken Norwegian food production in favour of production in other countries where the use of antibiotics is significantly higher than in Norway – is risky both for the production that might be phased out in agriculture, and also for the total confidence that chicken production has in the Norwegian market. That's the main cause of the case, but it's been published so that it has our demanding times for the chicken market lately, there's no reason to underestimate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e379	The issue we are dealing with today is animal welfare, and from my point of view it is important that a farmer has the opportunity to be a full-time farmer and to be present on the farm. When the government parties and the Left justify the duplication of concessions with animal welfare – in order to give people the opportunity to be full-time farmers – one has to expect that one can answer yes or no if there have been several full-time farmers. The reality of this was that one overnight increased capacity by 20-30 pst. As a result, many had to stop. Then the question is: have there been several full-time farmers – as we also heard the representative from the Left draw out in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e386	The representative Pollestad expresses his belief that there is only one factor affecting production. It is not. So if you had measured the evolution in the number of full-time farmers without having had a dramatic fall in demand, things could look different than they do today. I don't have an exact figure on how developments have been lately, but the developments that have been in the production of chicken now have revealed our demanding both for Nortura and other slaughterhouses – and to the extent for the farmers as well. But there are several things: it is about failure in demand, and it is, among other things, about failure in demand. for Nortura's part, that a food chain that used to deal with Nortura stopped doing it. Such fluctuations in the market will always be marked for those who produce the food. It is demanding for those in it, but the answer is that the grips taken by one to increase the concession limits in 2015 will be able to contribute over time, because they will be combined with better animal welfare – and also to provide more full-time farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e391	I'm going to look away from the proposal on chicken grass, which doesn't seem to have multiple numbers, and ask about the second proposal, which is raised by both the Green Party, the Labour Party, SV and the Left, and it's about environmental improvement requirements. Now we'll see if that proposal gets multiples, it depends on what the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are doing. I would strongly encourage them to support the proposal. I still ask the Council of State the question. What this is about is a review of the requirements that are today, and see if they're good enough for animal welfare. These are simple measures, such as ensuring that a person has lizard sticks, hiding places and, not least, access to daylight in chickenhouses – measures that all in themselves would be good measures to ensure better animal welfare. Will the Council of State take the call that comes from many parties here today, and carry out a review of these requirements, with a view to better animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e398	As of today, I don't see any reason for that. I think that within the animal welfare programmes one has, and that one works actively in the industry, there is a basis for saying that this is in good work. I don't need to detail it beyond what is already the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e404	Better animal welfare is necessary. It is no wonder that consumers react when the chicken grows so fast that the chicken does not have time to become a bone – so simple and so demanding. The growth rate is a consequence of breeding and feeding. Trygve Hegnar is here: here we have the editorial of his 'Hacking Chicken' in the Finance News of 13 February, where the best Hegnar greets both the Minister of Agriculture and the undersigned. Hegnar writes there: ‘Now he is fighting the antibiotic nasarin in the fore, while Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale will keep it.’ Do the councils agree with Hegnar?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e416	After hearing the introduction to the reply, you could ask whether the representative Lundteg was in agreement with the representative Pollestad. But I agree with the representative Lundtigen that it is a goal over time to phase out narasin – that is, nutrition – if it does not lead to increased antibiotic use instead. Norwegian authorities don't look at narasin as an antibiotic, and therefore the premise for the question is wrong. The answer must also be balanced. I am to phase out narasin – it does a lot of producers now – but I am not to regulate it out if it leads to increased antibiotic use, and thus an increased risk of antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e423	It almost sounds – in the debate here – as if one is not aware that the fall in the market came before the government carried out the doubling. The rationale was, among other things: several full-time farmers. Therefore I would like to return to the representative Pollestad, because he did not receive an answer to his question. Will the Minister obtain anything about the developments when it concerns the number of full-time farmers in this industry and present it to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e428	There is no doubt that when I say from this talking room that the times in the production of chicken are now demanding, I realize that the structuring process that is now taking place is for several reasons – e.g. failure of demand, rotation, where a food chain stopped trading with Nortura, and went to others – openly affecting production. In such a period, I think we're going to see structuring. The question is how this will look in retrospect. I think – but I can't prove it right now – that over time there will be a basis for saying that we're going to get more people who live from chicken production all the time. It's been a goal. Then we have to bear in mind that on the welfare side, with the change that was made, there was a clear incentive to increase profitability by focusing on animal welfare – that it is only through increased animal welfare that one may have increased animal density – and with that even more money on its production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e435	The problem with this debate is that the Ross 308 breed and its characteristics have been accepted as a premise for the issue of animal welfare. Then you can make the description that the Ross 308 chickens are doing well, based on some very simplified parameters of the type ‘sores on wooden cushions’ etc. It's a little bit like determining the quality of life of the Council of State based on whether or not he has gnawing ulcers. What's the problem is that we operate with a chicken breed where the chickens can't stand to grow up, and where the farmed animals can't get to eat saturated – if they're going to grow up, so they can produce chickens. The question is, Does the Council of State consider this to be good animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e442	Norwegian animal welfare is among the best in the world. It's okay to look around when you want to make up your own position. The proposal put forward by the Green Party today, I believe, will lead to a major phase-out of chicken production in Norway, to the continued production of Ross 308 in almost all other European countries and in the United States. There will be no better animal welfare over time. What is actually required when proposing changes in laws and regulations in the Storting is what the practical consequences of those proposals are. There will be no significant production of slow-growing chickens in Norway, as it will lose international competition. The answer is that the Green Party's proposal could equally lead to poor animal welfare with regard to the production of chickens for fattening worldwide, rather than to the strengthening of Norwegian production, which is among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e451	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e456	Consumers need – and require – safer food. They require natural food. We have a border guard, so we have an opportunity to have a national food policy. We can have a green import protection in terms of better quality, and more and more people see it – both consumers and people in the industry. Not least in the pig team, there are many prominent and competent representatives who see it, and they also see that when you have a national breeding, a certain one can – a breeding that is requested internationally. I support proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, that the government come back with proposals to meet consumers' expectations for good animal welfare. It is essential – fully in agreement. How animals feel as domestic animals depends on their density, their density. It is a professional fact that the more animals you have on the same area, the greater the infection pressure. It's a logical, clear context, and one has to do something about it. Which breeds a user, has been said to be of great importance. We have our own national pig breeding, which is also exemplary internationally. We went away from national breeding on chicken and over to use the breed mentioned here, Ross. Obviously, through an interaction between the industry and the government, we can re-establish a national breeding system based on the best breeds we have internationally today. It's just a political question. That should be done. The last one is what the chicken eats. The chicken eats a substance today called narasin, which was patented as an antibiotic in the United States on August 3, 1982. This causes consumer uncertainty in the same way that uncertainty was created in the case of salmon by consumers. The salmon industry took business and is now in a situation where only 480 kilos of antibiotics are used for salmon on a quantity of 12 times the chicken quantity. For example, the salmon industry has done. They have received a safe and good product that is now in the process of competing the Chilean salmon in the United States with a higher price. That's the way to go for chicken nutrition in Norway too, but then we have to have a government council that dares to tell the truth, that dares to tell the scientific truth, that narasin is an antibiotic. As long as this is not done, the consumer's insecurity with the great product such as chicken will continue. It will go beyond the industry, and it doesn't deserve the nutrition, because there are so many in the industry who want to produce natural food.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e481	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that what had to be included in the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e488	It is 22 years since Norway received its revised competition law and the Competition Authority was established – first in Oslo and from 2004 in Bergen. Laws meant better merger control, prohibition of price cooperation and abuse of dominant positions in a market. Competition gave society the opportunity to move from a time period of market regulation to a trade and competition policy with more free trade and confidence in market mechanisms. This has given us better well-being, it has given us healthy businesses, and it has given us increased understanding of the importance of well-functioning markets to ensure effective use of social resources. To bet on protectionism in response to today's challenges, for example. increasing unemployment, is the wrong way to go. The government will, through the proposal we are discussing here today in the Stortinget, strengthen competition policy by establishing a competition complaint topic in Bergen and modernising competition law in line with the time we live in. That's good, both for consumers and for our business. While there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the minor legislative changes, the big discussion is whether we should have an independent complaint of competition or whether we should continue to be able to reform the Competition Authority’s decision. To continue with our practices today could mean that we will have a politically adopted monopoly of a government or framework conditions that give market power, and thus socio-economic poor solutions. It's a bad competition policy, and it's a bad consumer policy. This is well documented. The OECD shows that effective competition policies lead to better redistribution of society through more efficient use of social resources. The EU Commission also points out that the low-income groups are the ones that focus most on effective competition. It is thus an effective and good competition policy that ensures the best consumer policy. Then it is important to realise that effective competition is not an end in itself, but a way to achieve effective use of scarce social resources and to achieve a real and good competitiveness. This is an important basis for a modern welfare society and the very basis for competitive enterprises. Simplification is the objective of the revised Competition Act to secure access conditions in a market, so that an operator should always feel competitive and that consumer concerns are well taken care of. Sources of permanent monopolies shall be politically determined by law and democratic governance here in the Stortinget, and not by the fact that a government is able to review the Competition Authority or the Competition Complainant's decision. For that work, we have the courts. For the Right, it is important that we work to ensure that business actors are treated in a non-discriminatory way by law, and that policy-making of the decisions of the Competition Authority in favour of companies that are fortunately lobbied against political authorities cannot be done. When the Stortinge passed these legislative changes in competition law today, we are a good step forward in ensuring equal treatment and sustainable conditions for our business, and in addition to better consumer interests being taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e509	The government proposes to set up an independent complaint panel for competition matters, and I will stay the most in it. From the Labour Party we have noticed that it was only the NHO, the Competition Authority, Specter and Finanz Norway that, in the hearing, gave their support to the model that the government is now proposing to establish. We have noticed that, among other things. The Advocate-General has held that the traditional organisation of appeal procedures and court proceedings is both well tried and well-functioning and that there are insufficient grounds for changing the current system. The working party shares this view. We have also noticed that the Association of Lawyers argues that it might be possible to introduce another model, or that the present model may need to be continued instead of introducing the model proposed by the government. The Consumer Ombudsman also proposes an alternative model, justifying that there are significant uncertainties related to the model proposed by the Government. Under the Stoltenberg Government, the case of merger between Oilwell and Varco was converted into the ministry on a competitive basis. Here, the Competition Authority had assessed the case on the basis of the assumption that the companies operated in a restricted market that only applied to the North Sea. The Ministry argued on a professional basis that the market was international. Another example of a case that was converted is the merger between Prior and Gilde, where, on the basis of a competitive assessment, the Ministry concluded that Prior was a processing point for Gilde and not a direct competitor. On that basis, the decision of the Competition Authority was reversed. The Stoltenberg II Government also reversed the case of the Prior-Nordgården acquisition in the King of the State Council, on which agricultural policy considerations were based. The Bondevik II Government also converted several decisions of the Competition Authority. I mention these issues, because they show that sometimes there may be a need to take wider societal considerations than the purely competitive ones in these kinds of cases. In the view of the Labour Party, the legislative proposal will mean that much power is shifted from the more democratic processes to the more legal – pure application of law – which we do not support. So to the point of harmonising the conditions of intervention and welfare standards in the merger control of the Competition Act. There we record that the government argues that the proposed legislative change will be an element of the follow-up to the Storting decision of February 2015 to return to Stortinget with proposals for instruments to improve competition and efficiency in the daily food market. The Labour Party supports this proposal, but we would like to stress that this amendment does not in any way outweigh the concerns of a law on good commercial practice in order to ensure a well-functioning value chain for the marketing of food. Therefore, we continue to stand firm in our view that such a law on good trading practices of supervisory capacity must be established in line with the conclusions of the Kettemaktu Selection and subsequent investigations. In conclusion, the Labour Party also supports the proposal to introduce a system of cartel settlements into the Competition Act, so I will try to make an explanation of vote – and I have it in writing, to the Secretary's comfort: the Workers' Party will, since we are in favour of the provision on cartel settlement, vote for the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 26 and the first paragraph of Section 27 and 27a, but will vote against the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27a. We will therefore also vote in favour of Paragraph 29(a).
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e524	Competition is the cornerstone of Norwegian business. It encourages the efficient use of society’s resources, fosters innovation and keeps down costs of goods and services. Competition also inspires technological development and efficiency improvement, creating better supply to consumers through lower prices, a varied product choice and good quality. It is therefore important to have a good and effective competition policy. We must have a policy that facilitates, as far as possible, an independent and free business without special treatment or anti-competitive agreements. A good competition policy is countering the fact that some operators in the business community have greater privileges than others. We must have a policy that stimulates the free movement of goods and services and free access to the market, in the face of the threat of the individual and the consumer's power through the market. It is therefore important to have a high level of consumer confidence in competition policy. The government, with the Right and the Advance Party, has been working actively since one day so that competition in business is not influenced by anti-competitive schemes. I am therefore pleased that the government has put forward a bill to establish an independent complaint subject for competition. We need a specialised and independent management body that can review the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decision before appeal decisions can be tried by the courts. The establishment of an independent competition complaint panel strengthens competition supervision as an independent authority body and eliminates different governments' role as appeal body. It is therefore important that the term has a high degree of legitimacy and knowledge to deal with competition matters. This body will have no less knowledge than its present bodies for dealing with matters of such a nature. The members of the Board will have sound and sufficient professional competence to deal with competition matters in the most optimal way through the appropriate professional treatment. I am therefore pleased that the legislative proposal makes provision for the requirements of competence, as it is crucial for the functioning of the title, as well as for the adequate trust of consumers. As in all cases, it is important to look at the economic and administrative consequences. With this proposal, the pooling of resources for the competition proceedings will be about the same day’s regime, when the cases to be dealt with by thecomplainant are dealt with either by the courts or by the ministry. This means that it is assumed in the proposal that there will be a minor change in the costs of the case. I would particularly like to highlight the importance and significance of the independence of this body. In order to achieve a level playing field for all economic operators, it is important that a politically independent body achieves an impartial review of the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decision. This also prevents competition from being decided in some cases on the basis of the resources and influences of the actors. By establishing an independent complaint subject, businesses with the largest resources will not be able to operate lobbying to achieve their interests. The legislative proposal also provides for strengthening the interdependence between the denominator and the Competition Authority. It is essential, in principle, that competition issues, even of social significance, be overestimated by an instance without occasional political interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e543	Competition is necessary for a functioning market. Competition means that there is a constant need to improve and deliver better products at better prices. Therefore, it is important that we have a law that actively promotes healthy and fair competition in business. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the establishment of a complaint panel for competition matters. This is a good and, in principle, correct solution for dealing with complaints against decisions of the Competition Authority. However, the Christian People's Party believes that there may be some cases of such fundamental or social importance that it should still be possible for the King of State to review the decisions – but not as an additional appeal body, for this should only be used in cases where the social consequences are so important that direct political intervention can be defended. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes that sections 13 and 21 be maintained as they are today. Today's look-up in today's business is misleading in this area. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the premise that the legislator adopts laws and the courts judge by the laws is a valid premise for how society works. It is therefore important to say that the maintenance of these paragraphs is with a desire that this access be used only when social considerations so warrant – otherwise not. But history shows that several times it has been considered necessary to use the opening that has been used to oversee competition, even in the near past. This shows that there may also be situations in the future where we again need this opportunity. Repeal of Sections 13 and 21 would make this impossible. Competition is important for a functioning market, but sometimes there are other considerations to consider. That is why we have had the opportunity to convert decisions in the King into the Council of States, and therefore we believe that this should be maintained in special cases, even if one establishes a complaint subject for matters of a more common nature, and that the King of the Council of State should only be used in exceptional cases. I disagree with that representative Oskar J. Grimstad finally said that the top political leadership should not affect anything in terms of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e560	Competition is a good thing and a level playing field must strive to achieve. But it can't be that competition in every case is the only thing to count. If one looks at the cases in which the Competition Authority has been involved — or has been dealt with by the King of State Council — related to mergers and acquisitions, as mentioned in NOU 2014: 11, there have been very few cases in that area. This matter bears the impression that the government is solving a very imagined problem. I miss a documentation of what a person states as the main reason to do this grip. In fact, one writes to the Storting regarding the main reason why a depriving the King of the State Council of the possibility to review the decisions of the competition authorities: ‘The main reason is that political transformation is in favour of enterprises that succeed in lobbying against political authorities, while enterprises without strong political alliances have little opportunity to achieve the same.’ I have not seen anywhere that you have given a description that this has been the case. This is something that an imaginary person is trying to solve. Such a comment would also help to create more bureaucracy. We now have a government that delivers on bureaucracy – it is under this government’s record growth in government employees in general and growth in staff in departments and directorates. This approach will further contribute. So I would say that as important as having a good oversight and a right to apply justice is that a non-open-minded person introduces rules that are directly distorting competition. We have seen this in the context of the state budget: the government has chosen to discriminate against Norwegian in favour of SAS by imposing the seat charge. It's a competition case. One introduces different competitive conditions, one is warned, but one insists that one should do so anyway. I think that instead of jumping on this ideological drive where competition is to be lifted out of politics, one should rather have used mirrors and looked at what one can do in the regulatory design to ensure a level playing field. As regards the question of cartel settlement, the Centre Party joins in the explanation of vote given by the Workers' Party in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e580	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work that has been done, and that article he started the debate with. For the Left, it is important to strengthen the enforcement of competition law and to strengthen legal certainty for businesses. That is why we support the creation of an independent complaint panel for competition matters. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries is the Board of Appeal for the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decisions under the Competition Act. The Ministry's examination of the Competition Surveillance Authority's decisions in appeal cases does not open up political assessments, similar to those of the King of State Council. The Ministry, like the Competition Authority, can only make a competitive assessment in line with the legal conditions of the appeal proceedings. However, today’s challenge is that review procedures can still be seen as politically governed. The suspicion of political governance of professional decisions may weaken — may weaken — confidence in the review procedure and legal certainty of the parties. The Left therefore considers that the establishment of an independent competition complaints body could eliminate the challenges of today’s system. The left is concerned that the new complaint subject should prevent political over-management in competition matters. There shall be a better tool than today to resolve major and complex competition disputes and to prevent any doubt as to the decisions being taken. Business life shall ensure that decisions are made on a professional basis and not on a political basis. For the Left, it is important that the decisions taken are materially correct, that the legal certainty of the parties is ensured, that the review does not take too long and does not become unnecessarily costly. For this reason, it is essential that the Competition Act is highly professional in the area of competition law and the competitive economy. It's important to underline. The left is of the opinion that political transformation will benefit enterprises — mentioned earlier — that succeed in lobbying against political authorities, while enterprises without strong political alliances will have little opportunity to achieve the same. This is an important moment for the Left. It is the courts that shall ultimately be the judicial body, and not the Government of the King of the Council of State. If the practice of the Board of Appeal leads to results contrary to the will of the political majority, this should in that case be resolved by legislative or regulatory changes and not by action on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e593	Competition policy is an important part of economic policy. Competition provides effective use of Community resources and promotes innovation. The Government will facilitate a free and independent business without anti-competitive agreements, providing free flow of goods and services and free access to markets. It provides economic growth and new jobs. Competition supervision is a central tool that stops a lot of anti-competitive behaviour every year. It is the direct effect of competition policy. But the indirect effect is probably much more important. It consists of merging plans being scrapped because the companies see that they will be stopped by supervision or that the companies fail to cooperate on price because they know that it can lead to prison sentences and fines. Today’s legislative changes strengthen competition law and competition authorities, and both the direct and indirect impact of competition policy is getting a little better. Competition policy now becomes a little clearer, a little more stringent and a little more predictable, and society serves a little more than before to have an effective competition law. An example of a small but important measure is to harmonise merger control in Norway with the rules of the rest of Europe. The terms of intervention are converted into a so-called consumer welfare standard. This means that a anti-competitive merger will be stopped if customers come out worse. The new provision is a little simpler and marginally more stringent than the old one. However, the important thing is that both supervision and businesses can deal with the same rules in Norway as in the EU. It increases predictability and provides simplifications both for the Competition Authority and for the companies. It is true that the Workers' Party and the Centre point out that the new merger rule does not replace a daily food law. That's not the point either. The point is that merger control is getting a little bit stricter, both in the food industry and elsewhere. In addition, we must follow up the wishes of Stortinget with several measures, to which we are going to come back. For the same reason, the Media Ownership Act may be repealed without risk of weakening media pluralism through mergers and acquisitions. The Media Ownership Act has therefore been proposed by the Minister for Culture. Another important step is to put in place a system of cartel settlements. Those who have done something wrong can get a small profit to help simplify the supervisory process, while the leniency rule strengthens the incentive to finish the case. Both elements reinforce the indirect effects of the Competition Act. The most important thing in today's law is, however, to strengthen the political independence of competition authorities. Eliminating access to politically justified transformation is a key element in achieving the objective of the Sundvolden Declaration to strengthen competition surveillance and policy. I am pleased that this proposal has a majority. Political transformation means that a few can escape the Competition Act and the Competition Authority. The companies that are able to gain a political impact are given an additional privilege for which customers and society have to pay, but the worst thing is that the possibility of political change weakens the general respect for the law and for supervision. The introduction of an independent complaint subject is important in order to ensure a good professional review of the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decision. Although the Competition Authority is doing a very good job, the parties’ right to complain and have the matter assessed once for an important guarantee of legal certainty and an important part of Norwegian administrative law. The aim is to review all decisions taken by the Competition Authority — both those currently being dealt with in the Department and the serious offences currently being tried in the courts. Taking into account all cases will provide specialised and coherent treatment in all cases, and it will streamline law enforcement. The term ‘administrative body’ shall, however, be organised in such a way that it becomes an independent tribunal within the meaning of the EMK. It is important in fee cases, which are regarded as punishment after the EMK. The Committee shall examine the matter in accordance with the ordinary administrative procedure. It allows for more effective proceedings than the current court proceedings in fee cases. The court proceedings are time-consuming, and I think the cases are more effectively dealt with by the fact that the complainant is dealing with the matter before the courts are tried. I am pleased that the Stortinget will join the government's proposal to strengthen and streamline the Competition Act. The decision-making processes under the Competition Act have been a subject of controversy in the 100 years we have had price and competition law in Norway. It is therefore gratifying – and a brand day – that we are now receiving a politically independent complaint in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e628	In the evening post on Tuesday 8 March, the following is on the first page of Siv Jensen after she became Minister of Finance: «The law of war against bureaucracy» employs more than Stoltenberg. Today, it is proposed in this case to establish a competition complaint subject located in Bergen. Several in the hearing do not support the model. Among other things, the Advocate General believes that the traditional organisation of appeal procedures and court proceedings are both well-tested and well-functioning, and that there are insufficient grounds for changing today's system. So the question is, how much does the increase in bureaucracy become by establishing this competition issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e639	It is true that this government has hired several nurses to bring down the health cows. We have more teachers, and we have more policemen. These are the bets the government has gone to elections on, but that doesn't mean we have more bureaucrats. On the contrary – it has now been cut for three consecutive years – public budgets are cut every year. For the first time, government budgets are cut to reduce the number of bureaucrats. And we're going to keep doing that. The subject of competition shall consist of five to seven members, with a permanent head of staff. This will shift resources from the ministry to an independent complaint panel. We've said that we think it has an annual cost of 7.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e646	Based on what stood in the evening post, I thought it had been created directly approx. 1 500 red tape. In total, there are over 7 000 more government employees, including nurses and everything. When the Attorney General says that this is a good enough system, should one then set up more bureaucracy? We have seen it from this government in the past – for example. in this budget, a Board of Regulators is set up for approx. 11 million. kr. Can the Minister give an overview of how much bureaucracy has increased in her budget area since she took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e651	The last thing I can't answer is that it's going to be comparing apples and bananas. As the representative probably knows, the department that was in the time of the previous government does not exist. We have merged the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Industry, and the aim is, of course, to streamline and coordinate the operation of the two departments. So it's not bureaucracy to create a complaint subject. Complaints shall be dealt with; it is an important part of the legal certainty of administrative decisions. The question is who is going to treat them, and so we think it's going away from politics and into a subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e656	I don't think it's possible to get away from the fact that there's been a strong growth in the number of employees in the department and the directorate of this government, but that's not what I'm going to ask. I'm going to ask you this: one has as its main reason for implementing this that there have been political transformations in favour of businesses that succeed in lobbying against policy-making. On page 33 of NOU 2014:11, the reorganizations made with mergers and acquisitions since 2004 are overshadowed, and it could be interesting to hear which of these are justified, i.e. not because the government has considered that it was the best thing for society – which I believe is behind many of these decisions – but that one has done so because these companies have succeeded in their lobbying. Can you give any example of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e663	The case of the representative himself mentioned in his introduction, the Prior case, was justified in politics – party politics. Then you have to assume it's because you've made the decision that Prior wanted, and that's what you've announced. We have made it clear that this type of decision should not be taken on the basis of party policy to the government at all times, because there will be decisions that will change with changes in government, but that there should be a professional assessment of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e668	As far as I can recall, the approval of the merger between Gilde and Prior was justified by an agricultural policy dimension in addition to competition policy. Now I hear that the Council of State believes this was due to the fact that Prior was successful in his lobbying. That's two slightly different things. I would again challenge whether the Council of State sees that in some cases a conclusion for the benefit of society can be built in a somewhat broader perspective than purely competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e673	The answer to that is yes and no. I can imagine situations where I would have wanted a different decision from the Competition Authority, but that is the whole point. It is not my opinion, my political opinion, that should be the basis for a decision, that is a technical justification, and the consideration of consumers and society should come first. Then it is very difficult to imagine issues where there are different considerations than the concerns of society and consumers that are going to come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e678	I said in my post that as important as supervision and complaints is that one does not make discriminatory rules. The Competition Authority has made quite a brief statement on the so-called fare for the airline seat, and I have come to the conclusion that the department has also received a letter from ESA today that mentions the airline passenger fee. When one heard what the Council of State said in its statement on the importance of a level playing field, the Council of State will then take the initiative to introduce rules that create unequal conditions of competition, such as: The air passenger fee is not implemented – when one has now received clear warnings from both the Competition Authority and ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e685	This matter is quite interesting, because it could be an example of a government converting the decision of a strong and independent professional body – in so far as a decision was taken – because a political opinion on this was different. Now this is not a complaint, and it is not a matter that has been dealt with by the government. That's my answer. It is not the government that has proposed a seat tax, it is the Stortinget that has taken a decision on this, and the government's task is to implement the Stortinget decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e690	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e695	Now the representative Pollestad got a little response to the appeal in the reply box, but I want to stay a little while at his post, and I also want to stay a little longer by saying that SV does not keep up with the debate. This is a brand day. It is independence in competition policy that is the very central one, which is the division of the committee, and when Pollestad can say that it is an imaginary issue, and that it is not very much, it is simply historyless. On 18 November 2010, the VG had an overview showing that the Competition Authority’s decisions were overruled seven times in groceries. And it can be said that the reason why we are now discussing the law of good trading practice is that every time you went in and overruled the Competition Authority when it came to decisions in the groceries market. So serious is what we're talking about. Every time, there were other societal considerations that were crucial to entering. The result is that we are today discussing how to get hold of the concentration we have received in the market. I would also like to point out – as the Council of State did – that this is therefore a brand day. Competition supervision sets the standard for competition in the market by simply giving out signals and adapting it to competitors. You don't cooperate on price when you know that you can risk going to prison to do that. And you don't propose a merger that you know will be stopped. This avoids many cases by having strong competition supervision that are free to signal what we think is right under the laws we have in Norway. Why SV is not our alliance partner, I do not understand. Recent research shows that an effective competition policy is perhaps the most effective instrument we have for cohesion in society. It removes privileges, and you can't lobby for privileges. The SV should be a fan in the fight for an effective competition policy, but in this debate there is a complete silence, and all the world's remarks are that decisions in the Competition Authority should be overruled. I find that quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e712	This is a very interesting debate. I think it has an important undertone in itself, because it is very important if we are to allow democracy and politicians to have some influence in important social areas. In this way, I think the Christian People's Party representative made a very good contribution, that there may be some issues where there is actually a need to have a political approach also to a initially competitive case. I fully agree with the Council of State that a well-functioning market is important and that we need to have good processes around this. I also very much agree with the Council of State and the representative of Gundersen, who was now up, that there is a lot of preventativeness in the device we already have, and what we are going to get, and that the preventive element is absolutely crucial. That's where I think we're doing the big competitive job. We have to hope that we get the fewest possible things that create bureaucracy. I am not sure whether the government and the Council of State are right when they say that the new model should be more efficient, and it seems that it is not well established. However, I am also very comfortable with the fact that the State Council in Stortinget now says that other measures are to be assessed in terms of the law on good trade practices and measures against the daily food industry – and that is good. We appreciate that, sail if we're getting a divorce on the issue of law of good trade. There are two things that I think are interesting in this related to where the decisions are taken in very important cases. It is said by several teams in the debate that it should be based on a professional basis and not on a political one. I believe – and hope too – that many of the political decisions now taken are absolutely based on a professional basis and do not really see that it necessarily has any contradictions in it. The councils have a good office to play on, and that's prior proceedings, so it's stuffed with good professional input. In this way I think you should notice what the Government Attorney – the government lawyer, one of the best lawyers we have, which we very often trust – says and points out in this case, that the model chosen is not preferable. It is also the case when some people are afraid that changing governments will produce a different result, that it is part of democracy on important issues. That's why we fight about power, to get an opportunity to influence. If we have different governments, we will have to live with some alternating result. Then I also heard the Council of State say that society should come first, so one must have independence from political environments. What is it? I hope that the current government, but also future governments, will put society first when you make political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e725	Knut Storberget does not see the need and basis for change, and Geir Pollestad believes that there is an imaginary need. Gunnar Gundersen did well for some things that had been transformed by previous governments. He mentioned that there were seven things up. When you look at that list, there are mainly issues that have dealt with agriculture and co-ordinated their challenges with the arrival of other actors. I understand that Geir Pollestad is opposed to such a development in which operators other than cooperatives will be able to make their production units successful before agriculture. It is actually challenging the entire agricultural policy of the Centre Party. But here we have seven good examples of why an absolutely should not accept such a development. At the same time, one stands here in the aftermath – Knut Storberget in particular – and calls for the law of good trade. Just because one has allowed greater concentrations in our food production in Norway today, one today lacks better competition. It's almost impossible to believe the whole thing. I'm very, very much for the change we're making here today, the fact that we can decide today that it's here in the Stortinget we make the laws, and then it's the courts that have to judge whether we're following the law or not, and not a randomly elected government – excuse the expression, good president, but not a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e734	The Great Mountain said democracy must have an influence. Of course, democracy has an influence, but it has to do with the role clarification. It is democracy that makes the laws. All the seven things we've been dealing with were taken from a political picture, where we got consequences that today cause us to be concerned about the lack of competition in the market. Ergo should the Stortinget and politicians discuss laws, and then we get an independent professional name that deals with the issues that appear, according to the laws we have adopted. This is a quite elementary role clarification between the Storting and the actors who are out there, which it is extremely important that we now have an impact on the independence of treatment. That's what history shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e741	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e755	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e762	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Good Cooperation and the representative Hansson for a good proposal on an important topic. Municipalities are a key player in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in this country, and since 2009 they have been required to have an energy and climate plan. Should municipalities and county municipalities be able to draw up and follow up plans, they depend entirely on knowing what measures are being taken to reduce emissions. Then we need to know how much greenhouse gas is emitted from the individual areas, and we need to have a statistics for the emissions, so that results can be measured. It will also make it easier for municipalities and county municipalities to assess the cost-benefit of the different measures. Statistics have been produced by the Statistical Centre in the past, but reduced this work a few years ago due to poor quality of the data. The government proposed to grant 6.4 million in its State budget. kr to produce municipal greenhouse gas statistics, and the Environment Directorate has been asked to produce a plan for statistics. Statistics must also apply to counties. We know that 30 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. Municipalities are responsible for public transport and also have regional planning responsibilities. By designing public service contracts and by being an overall body for planning matters, county municipalities will be a key player in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, like the municipalities, they are a large owner of the building mass and, not least, they are ordering the construction of new buildings such as: schools. The government has strengthened Enova by significant amounts, in particular with a view to supporting transport and construction projects. Municipalities and county councils can be a demanding order here and contribute to the application for development projects from Enova. Hordaland County Municipality has launched a larger ferry offer requesting support from Enova for the most climate-friendly ferry transport. When new collective offers are published in the county municipalities, environmental and climate are usually weighted at least as heavily as price. If county authorities and municipalities are to be able to impose strict environmental requirements on their purchases of goods and services, they must also be able to know the impact of the measures required. Therefore, it is also so incredibly important that we have an overview of the emissions of individual measures, so that they are as targeted as possible. We are looking forward to producing statistics that have a much higher quality than has been the case in the past. We meet a good qualitative figure basis for greenhouse gas emissions in municipalities and county municipalities and have the ambition that we have a first-generation numerical basis in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e775	I just want to make a brief comment, for this is a matter which has a broad majority behind it, and in reality a matter in which the government has already delivered in the budget in time between the proposal was promoted, and it is now being discussed. Climate challenges require knowledge-based policies both in the national Parliaments and in the municipalities, where much of the important action is taken. If municipalities are to succeed with their climate plans, the figures must be good and verifiable so that real results can be seen over the years. In an incubation, the Christian People's Party is not involved in a joint remark, but we are of course in favour of the comment that similar statistics are also published for the states. We note that the Council of State in its letter of reply points out that there will be challenges with such statistics, but trusts and underlines that it must be as good as possible, and hopes that we already have this tool in place in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e786	I'm gonna be short, too. First, I would like to say that I am in favour of the proposal tabled by Rasmus Hansson. I also want to pay tribute to the government and the majority of the population, who have been involved in putting this into the budget already for this year, so that we get climate statistics for each municipality, which everyone understands the importance of, but which I also understand that it is difficult to achieve. I still think it's important that we use resources on it, because we need to have the best available knowledge of this in the municipalities when designing their policies. I myself have been responsible as the City Council in Oslo, and I know how important it is to have an overview of the direction in which greenhouse gas emissions are going. In a municipality you can control your own, concrete emissions. They themselves are able to do well within their responsibilities, but what is important is to look at the totality. A municipality is responsible for public transport, for building mass and a lot of concrete policies where measures can be implemented, but what is crucial is to look at the development of a municipality where municipalities, states and counties have to play together to reduce emissions, which will be in most areas. That's the sum of the measures that come with the different levels, which will be crucial for bringing down the emissions. Therefore, we also need to acquire knowledge, as far as possible, about what emissions are within a municipal boundary. Now that we have the Paris Agreement, which means that everyone must mobilise – both state, local authorities, businesses, individuals and countries in cooperation must mobilise to achieve the objectives – it is important that Norwegian municipalities take responsibility not only for their own activities, but also for the area of the municipality, and thus also look at the cooperation that can be achieved: What responsibility can you take for yourself? What cooperation can be built with the state, together with the states, but also with the private business community, in order to achieve results? Then, as far as possible, these statistics from the SSB on the development of greenhouse gas emissions in each municipality are very important. With that, we are happy with the progress of the work done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e799	I would also like to thank the representative Rasmus Hansson for promoting this proposal, and I give tribute to the position of ensuring that money is put in place for this, and for getting this going again. We think that's very good. I have to admit that I thought it was stupid when it was removed, even though in a way there were good methodological reasons – as Ola Elvestuen was just about to say – to say that this is difficult to manage. But that's very good, because it's a useful tool. It brings me to the two concrete challenges that I have had to the Council of State, and which I hope he can answer in his article. One is a matter that I raised with the Council of State last week, or the week before, that was about fuel oil. In Oslo is 20 pst. emissions related to the use of heating oil, both in state-owned buildings, in commercial buildings and in ordinary dwellings. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that we should put in place a ban that will come into force from 2020. One of my questions to the Council of State is: When does the bill come to the Stortinget which involves a ban? The faster we get it in place, the more predictability becomes for anyone who has to do something with their heating system. The second is, is it like this, as I and the Council of State had a discussion about last week, or the week before, that the Council of State is aware that he is also working to assess the introduction of a ban on top loads in commercial buildings? And when can we expect to get this to Stortinget? Then I have a question related to the government's follow-up to the Storting decision. The complainant pointed out in his statement that the County Municipality of Hordaland has now launched a ferry tender round in which they impose stricter requirements than they have previously made. That's good. The size decided last autumn that all new ferry offers should be based on low and zero emissions. Nevertheless, no notice has been given from the government when it intends to follow up our proposal, i.e. the decision of the Stortinget. This is a very important decision, because it is important to achieve the 2020 target and the 2030 target that we will start to ensure that all ferry offers are based on zero emissions as soon as possible. Ketil Solvik-Olsen has just said in answer to my questions that he expects to return to Stortinget with this in the budget proposal next year, but he has not said anything about what date we can expect all ferry offers to be based on low and zero emissions. As I said, this is important in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I expect the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, to be ‘hands on’ in terms of these things, all about reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I therefore expect him to give us an answer to the following: From what time will the legislation and the decree of the Stortinge to base all ferry and scheduled boat offers on zero and low emissions apply? It would be good if we could get an answer from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e810	Very much of the job to be done in Norway to cut greenhouse gas emissions needs to be done in municipalities. With the Stortinget decision that Norway will cut 40 pst by 2030. in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, this means that work in municipalities must be stepped up. When the realities of the Paris Agreement, with reference to an ambition of more than 1.5 degree heating than 2 start to enter into Norwegian and European policies, the tasks for municipalities will be much greater. We all know that in 2009 Norwegian municipalities were required to draw up a climate and energy plan. It was a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, ensure more efficient and environmentally friendly energy conversion and contain ambitious targets for emission reductions and measures and instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This was done by most municipalities, and they have such a plan. However, in order to assess the effectiveness of implementation, it is essential to have statistics on emissions development. We got it until 2012, when the Central Statistical Office stopped publishing these figures and justified it by the fact that the quality of the statistics was not good enough. It is important, of course, when the Statistical Centre says so, but at the same time the consequence of the lack of statistics has been that it has become very difficult for each municipality to know the impact of the measures and not least for opinion and political debate to have something to stick to. This is a problem that has led to the fact that in very many municipalities it is rather unclear whether climate plans have actually been implemented. It should be a State task to produce this type of statistics. It's obviously much smarter that this happens centrally than that 428 municipalities do it their own way. Therefore, of course, the Greens are very pleased and pleased that the government has put us in the bargain and included this in the state budget for 2016. It provides a much better basis for national and local climate work in Norway. I also notice that the rapporteur, Torhild Aarbergsbotten, was very offensive in his description of the expectations of the quality of the statistics we are about to receive. There is every reason to have expectations, even though the statistical central agency has doubted the quality so far. There are good statistics on everything between heaven and earth in this country, and there can be no doubt that good local climate statistics will have to be produced, which will provide a good basis for climate work in the municipalities. When, hopefully, the government presents an ambitious, concrete and binding climate law if not for a very long time, having municipal statistics at the bottom will be a very important prerequisite for doing that work. Then only the job of cutting greenhouse gas emissions remains, but this day represents progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e825	Let me also thank the representative Hansson for a good proposal, which provides an opportunity to agree on an important measure, but also an opportunity to discuss the important role of municipalities in Norway's transition to the low-carbon society. All emissions that do not occur on the base, from ships far to sea or from aircraft in the air occur in a municipality, and that is why the State expects municipalities to be ambitious in climate and energy planning and to take action to achieve the objectives. Of course, emissions need to be reviewed when implementing accurate measures, and that is where the importance of statistics comes into the picture. There was a small setback for climate work in the municipalities when the SSB released its statistics on the subject a few years ago. I still understand that decision, because it was about the quality of the numbers not being good enough. In my department it has been working for several years to get a new statistics in place. As many people have gone into it, it's set at 6.4 million. kr in the State budget to start work on developing a new statistical basis for municipalities. It is the Environment Directorate that is set to lead this work. There is no reason to hide that there is a complicated work, but it has started up. Some of the challenges are that emissions within a municipality cannot be easily measured and reported, but detailed calculations for each municipality need to be carried out. The amount of emissions e.g. Road traffic in each municipality depends, inter alia, on: how much is driven, what type of vehicle is used and how it is run. The representative proposal from the representative Hansson gives us an opportunity to get the importance of a good factual basis. It does not cut emissions by itself, but it is an important starting point for giving priority to good climate action. Municipalities need to obtain statistics on greenhouse gas emissions because it is difficult to choose the right climate action without such an overview. We have some good news in this area. Firstly, the Statistical Central Agency has started to publish greenhouse gas emissions in the counties again. Secondly, the Environment Directorate has funded a work that resulted in the publication by the SSB of an analysis of greenhouse gas emissions in municipalities a few months ago. That analysis is not perfect. It lacks figures for several sources of emissions, and the SSB has not given it the status of official statistics, but it is nevertheless a good starting point for further work on municipally distributed emissions. It is a demanding task that the Environment Directorate has now been given. We know that the SSB closed the statistics on the same topic because the quality was too bad. The Directorate-General for the Environment has therefore stressed the need to carry out a thorough monitoring phase prior to the establishment of a new data base in order to determine how work is to be carried out. I will therefore be careful to be too bastant, but the Environment Directorate is working to publish some of the data base in 2017, while more complete statistics are coming later. This will be a product that needs to develop over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e845	I asked two questions in my post that I asked to be answered. That did not happen to the Council of State, although I realized that he had strictly taken the time to do so, so I put them back again. The following questions are addressed to the Council of State: From what date does the Government intend to follow the decision of the Storting to base all ferry and scheduled boat offers on zero and low-emission technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e852	Like the responsible state council in the field, I cannot give the Minister for Transport an exact date for when the necessary investigation work is clear and a proposal can be promoted. But we are already following up both Storting's decision and Storting's intention in the sense that we are working on the right solutions for precisely low-carbon technologies, not least in coastal shipping. Green shipping is one of the five areas of climate policy. Among other things, a significant Enova allocation was recently granted to land-based power plants in the West. It is an example of a policy in which we facilitate practical climate action, and then the follow-up to Stortinget's decision, to which the representative Eidsvoll Holmås refers, will be something to which the Minister for Transport must come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e858	Just for follow-up: It's very nice that the government follows its own plans, but it's a point that the government should do what the Storting asks for. I remember very well that in the debate we had, the whole intention of the Workers' Party when they promoted this proposal was to ensure quickly that all future bids were based on low- and zero-emission technologies, so that we could start creating activity in Norwegian shipyards. We were visiting Fischerstrand Verft with the Committee two days ago, where they clearly stated that this decision was important to driving through the green shift, and that they already had a mission to deliver a biodiesel and plug-in hybrid ferry to Torghatten. But it is not that this decision itself will drive through this development until it is clear to all states from when it is they should have imposed this on zero- and low-emission technologies for scheduled boats and ferries. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e863	The President believes that the representative must limit his line to the matter we have to deal with, and not least to the area for which the Council of State in question is responsible, but the Council of State Helgesen must decide whether he will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e866	I have replied to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that a date is not ready, and the date will be able to communicate with the Minister of Transport when the necessary work has been done. So there is no doubt that Storting's decision will be followed up. There is also no doubt that in practical policy we follow it up, because decisions are very important, regulation is very important, but it is also important that we fight for technology development and the organisation of these solutions, which are in progress, and that is what will provide practical climate results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e871	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås gets the word for a new line provided that it is within the matter we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e874	Good luck, President. I would like to stress that the reason I raised this question was that the rapporteur spoke about ferry offers in his article. The second question I raised to the Council of State is about fuel oil. In Oslo is 20 pst. emissions related to the use of fuel oil. There is considerable uncertainty as to how the government will deal with the top load in commercial buildings. Top loads can be considered negligible, but it's hard to set a limit, and that really means saying yes to firing in food buildings when it's cold, that is, when you have the most need to make sure that the air is as clean and fine as possible. So the question I asked to the Council of State in my article was: can the Council of State now confirm with 100 pst. the safety of considering the introduction of a ban on top loads also in commercial buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e883	I can confirm again that it is assessed. It is a proposal which came last year and which the Environment Directorate is now considering together with the previous proposal for phase-out of fuel oil. It is clear that there will be a ban in good time before 2020. With regard to the issue of top loads in commercial buildings, there are security of supply dimensions that make it possible to assess it now, and I cannot, today, in the same way as two weeks ago, give an exact date, but that it is working on and that it has a high priority, there should be no doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e890	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e906	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e913	The proposal we are discussing today is about whether to introduce an environmental tax on lead hail. There has been a good case to consider in the committee – not because we come up with a unanimous vote, but because on 3 February 2015 we had to deal with a matter where the majority of the Stortinget raised the ban on the use of lead hail. The matter that we are now going to deal with comes as a direct consequence of the above case. The majority and minority in this case are, as I can see, identical to what it was in the previous case, which we dealt with a little over a year ago. The minority wants to impose a charge on lead hail, and I expect the minority itself to elaborate their arguments for it. A little story: When we softened the ban last year, the majority did not want to impose a fee. The reason for softening the ban on the use of lead hail last time was, of course, the need to ensure animal welfare and an animal-ethical good hunting, with the most effective killing of the game. Lead hail is the most effective ammunition available today to ensure the rapid killing of prey, and lead hail is safer to use for hunters since the ricochet hazard is greater when using alternative ammunition. That was the background for softening the ban. With regard to the imposition of a levy, the majority note that the Ministry of Finance considers that it is uncertain whether a charge will be a suitable and targeted instrument for regulating the use of lead hail. Thus, the introduction of a lead-haul levy in addition to today's regulation involves dual use of instruments, and, as far as we can see, the proposals of the Green Tax Commission warn against this use of double instruments. The very decoration of the prohibition has just entered into force. To conclude now with how the use of lead hail will be, we seem to be a little early. So at a price: I have done a quick investigation of the price of ammunition. Of course, the price of ammunition varies from mark to mark, and it also varies according to the characteristics of each cartridge. Although I have not done an extensive investigation, we see – at least the way I can figure it out – that although the price varies, the price of lead, steel, tin and zinc is roughly the same. It's a bit more expensive to use the bismuth and the tongue. So there's nothing to suggest that lead hail is much cheaper than other ammunition, as the minority has claimed in their comments. The general rule is that the use of lead hail is still prohibited. It must be reasonable to assume that where you really want to hunt the price, you will be buying ammunition when you are going on the shooting range. For the sake of order, the use of lead hail is still prohibited on the shooting path. On the basis of this, it was opened last summer – then the regulation came – so that lead hail could now be used. At present, the majority believe it is far too early to conclude that the introduction of an environmental tax will necessarily lead to a reduction in the use of lead hail. Therefore, it is not intended to impose a lead-haul charge at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e930	Now it may seem that the rapporteur has stolen large parts of my post, so I'm going to be very careful to point out a few things. The first is to state that Stortinget has actually lifted the total ban on the use of lead hail. It was adopted because it was a strong wish of the hunters to ensure good animal welfare, as the representative Henriksen spoke about, and that the hunters believe that the use of lead hail is safe. And in the fall, the hunters could once again choose what to use of ammunition during the hunt. I was one of the proposers behind the proposal that ended with the decision in Stortinget, and I will admit that it is not that there has been no debate on this matter, because it has. There are many who are concerned about the environmental consequences and that there may be a potential health risk. I am concerned about the same thing, but I believe that the limited use of lead hail you have allowed is not in line with the concern and fears of some people for the environment and health. But in the position here today, the majority writes that it is important to follow developments in the environment. In terms of health, it is said that it will be important to acquire knowledge about possible health consequences. Here too, we must follow developments closely. The minority wants to introduce an environmental tax on lead hail in order to prevent it from being cheaper than other ammunition. For the Workers' Party, we think it is a bit sought to obstruct a matter we have recently gone in to allow. I experience the proposal to impose a fee as an attempt at a rematch on a matter that has actually been lost. It's okay to take a rematch, but I think the minority in this case has to live with the fact that you didn't actually get a majority. That being said, it is rather doubtful that such a charge will have the effect that the minority wants, all the time the hunters had completely different arguments than the price of ammunition in order to want to soften the ban on the use of lead hail. In addition, if you want to see this fee in a slightly larger perspective, I'd say it's rather doubtful that it will generate large revenues to the state, if you're concerned about it. I don't think the government's tax cuts could have been covered by this, to say it like that. The Labour Party today is voting against the minority's proposal in the vote, and we are very pleased that the matter is annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e945	The debate on the use of lead hail has been going on for a long time and, as many people have said, the Committee on Energy and the Environment has discussed this relatively recently. The conclusions are made by both stand and measure. Yes, it is clear that lead in itself can be harmful if large quantities are poured out over Norwegian nature, but the use of the fee is simply considered inappropriate because it is a double agent. Many have called for a professional basis for a total ban on the use of lead hail. Good technical evidence has not been provided that lead poses any real risk of pollution in forests, mountains or used for seabird hunting over open water. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, there was a proposal for a total ban on lead hail, but thorough treatment concluded that the risk of contamination by lead hail was so small that it did not defend a ban. The Parliament rejected the proposal. For land hunting, lead hail is still the only type of hail that kills the wild in a humane manner, and it must be emphasised in an animal welfare perspective. Clear figures also show that the lead - hail ban led to more damage shootings, which is very undesirable. The central part of the setting is interesting and indicates that the distribution of lead in nature is limited to one hail per 25 m2 per hundred years in the forest and one hail per 100 m2 per hundred years in the mountain. Such a limited spread would result in very little risk of lead concentration in the blood, kidneys, liver and skeleton of the birds. During the treatment, the Stortinge laid down the precautionary principle and said that hunting using lead hail can pose environmental challenges. They therefore asked the government to follow in the development of lead hail and acquire knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail for hunting and to follow the development and effects of the implemented legislative change, see: At least. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I'm glad that a multiple still stands at this conclusion. I fully trust that the Norwegian hunter manages the fall of a natural resource using lead hail in a sensible and good way. With the clear limitations of today’s acceptable use of lead hail, a good balance has been made, which is appropriate in terms of both animal welfare and the environment. Rematching with a fee as a goal is simply inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e968	Last year, the bulk of the population — as I said — opened up to allow the use of lead hail for hunting in Norway. The opening for this does not apply to shooting paths and wetlands. Norway had had a total ban on lead hail since 2005 and it was prohibited to produce, import, export, transfer and use lead hail. The Committee has received various reports, including: by the Directorate for the Environment and the Veterinary Institute. In its report, the Environment Directorate points out that new research into the damage effects of lead confirms previous knowledge and reveals new concerns about health consequences. However, the size has chosen to remove this ban. The Christian People's Party has a fundamental sense of the Green Party's proposal to introduce a fee to ensure that the price of lead hail comes at the same level as the price of the best and most environmentally friendly alternatives. This ensures that the price is not decisive for the choice of ammunition. It's an argument that lead hail provides hunting benefits. In some contexts, there is an advantage to effective killing, and it is far safer in terms of ricochets. The size has allowed the use of lead hail, but it has not been given that it should be chosen at all times and in any context, even if there are arguments for it in some situations. I don't care about most guys with so many shots in the season that the price per shotgun will show up problematically. But which in a number of other areas has a price impact on behaviour, and it is a goal to limit the spread of lead in nature. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the present minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e985	Would the representative like to address the proposal, which the Christian People's Party shares with the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e988	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e993	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e996	I will just make a few brief comments on the proposal that is on the table, which a majority today choose to reject. The party to the centre shares the majority’s view and sees no reason to impose a special charge on lead hail, either on the grounds relating to the lifting of a ban last year or on the basis of the issue of price differences. We experience this proposal as an attempt to get a rematch on a case that the minority in Stortinget lost last year, namely the question of allowing the use of lead hail. We record that the ministry is clear that they believe that the possible effect of such a charge will be uncertain. I also think it is interesting that the case rapporteur today refers to the fact that there are currently small differences between ammunition of different quality, whether it is of steel, or it is of lead. I want to link a few comments to the issue of pollution hazard. The minority refers in its comments to the report submitted last year by the Environment DG on the issue of pollution hazards. But what the Directorate for the Environment relates to is lead in general, not lead hail in particular. I think very few of us disagree that there is a risk of contamination in lead, but that it can be directly linked to lead hail, there is no evidence from Norwegian universities or trade unions. On the other hand, there is a report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that shows that the spread of lead hail in Swedish nature – which is very similar to Norwegian nature – is very modest. In forest otters it is 1 hail per 25 m2 per 100 years, and in mountain terrain it is 1 hail per 100 m2 per 100 years. There is a risk of spread in lead hail, which is very modest. The centre party cannot see that, by doing so, it has been professionally demonstrated that lead hail itself poses a major pollution hazard. The centre party sees no reason to challenge the decision of a majority last year in this case. We are convinced that Norwegian hunters and also hunters' associations will manage the decision that Stortinget made last year, in a wise way and in line with the framework and limitations of that decision – which was thus made last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1013	I will not go into any professional discussion about what is the environmental impact of the use of lead hail. Nevertheless, there is a sense that there is no safe lower limit where lead in the blood is not harmful – there is no safe limit to lead. It is also a fact that in Europe ammunition is now again the largest source of lead that is deliberately spread in the natural environment without government regulation. In the opinion of the left, this is a completely unnecessary dispersion of a heavy metal like lead. It is particularly special when we start using lead hail again after 10 years when a ban has worked well, and alternative ammunition is available. That there should be something more damage shooting over the ten years than it was before the ten years, and than what comes now, I will at least have more evidence of before I will accept it. I think first and foremost it has to do with the hunters whether there are damage shootings, not the ammunition. There are good alternatives. Although the Left is strongly opposed to the fact that we are now once again allowing lead hail, and will continue a fight to get a ban back, that is not what this matter is about. What this matter is all about is simply whether to follow the polluter-pays principle. That's what's important here. There are many things that are legal that we still have a charge on, both because it has to help limit consumption, and because the one who uses what creates this pollution is also going to be involved in paying and taking the price that it involves. That's what this is all about. It's about lead being an environmental poison, and then it's also natural that you have a charge on it. This fee is no more remarkable than that the first time was proposed by Jan P. Syse back in 1990. At that time it was not introduced. We got a ban later on. Now, of course, we should look at reintroducing a fee. The argument that here there are small differences between the different types of ammunition is precisely an argument that a person should have a charge, because having a charge can also have a real effect on the ammunition being purchased, and that it can lead to a user having a smaller lead hail, so that it only gets a meaning that one has a polluter who pays. From the Left, we support this proposal and believe it is absolutely right to impose a levy, and we do not think that this discussion – although it is now opposed by a majority – is over. The polluter-pays principle is a good principle, and that is what we will try to follow, both in terms of lead hail and in other issues, even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1027	The reason why we are dealing with this matter is that lead is a toxic substance, and that the bulk of the population chose to cancel – ‘to soften’, as the rapporteur said – the ban that already existed against lead ammunition. Then it's quite natural that we get a discussion about what other means we're going to use to regulate this. One of them is to make it more expensive, so that fewer choose lead and more choose to use alternative ammunition. I want to join what Ola Elvesuen just said – there is no safe lower limit to lead and for when it's okay to take lead. It is a highly harmful substance to health. This is important for the government’s representative here: there is a national target that says very clearly that emissions of hazardous substances to health and the environment should be stopped – not to be cut slightly, but ‘to be stopped’. That's the goal that's been set, and that the Storting has joined. Lead is one of those substances, and 75 tons of it is emitted this year. And more importantly, on a green scale: this is going well, red: this is going really bad, or yellow: progress is going in the wrong direction, environmental status.no shows that development is going in the wrong direction. So there's a yellow light on the evolution of lead. It's in this situation the population has chosen to say: you know, we think it's okay with more lead in nature. I'm, as you know, against, but I still think it's worth taking this discussion, and I think the majority of people should be involved in introducing this fee. I have the sense of Marit Arnstad's argument that if one looks at lead, it's pretty little lead one scatters into nature in this way. I have a sense of that argument. Nevertheless, it becomes a bit involuntaryly comical that in a situation where we say we should stop the spread of lead, Marit Arnstad still believes that if we just spread it thin enough across the country and do it little enough, then it kind of does nothing. So it's not like that. We ‘shall stop’ the use and spread of lead, and then it is opening up for more distribution of lead a very bad idea. The argumentative height of the majority is, however, when reference is made to the Green Tax Commission and, as the rapporteur said, the Green Tax Commission warns against dual use — with pondus and printing on the words: warns against double use of instruments. But excuse me – how many other cases are we not using double instruments here in society? If it is that this has suddenly become a principle position that we are now going to end with all the dual use of drugs, I would like to mention: we have both access regulation and the tax on alcohol. We have both tax and access regulation on the use of tobacco plus many restrictions on the places where tobacco is allowed and not allowed to be used. We have both taxes and allowances on emissions from Norwegian base, and we have fees and emission permits, i.e. allowance price and emission permits, on e.g. use of gas power plants. I can take the opportunity to say that it is good that the Kårstø plant has now been finally adopted. So we're using double instruments over a low shoe in environmental policy, and then all of a sudden saying that placing the crucial emphasis on the fact that dual tool use is a very bad idea, I think it's a very thin argument. In road policy we have a charge on the purchase of cars, on the use of cars, we have a lot of regulations, we have tolls, we have a lot of regulations on where to use a car, where it is allowed to park and everything possible. We're using a lot of dual-use tools. That is why I believe that the majority's argument is very bad. Then it remains for me to ask a question to the Council of State, which I hope he can take up in his post, and that is: When it comes to that, despite the fact that we are in a situation where there is yellow light for the lead side – is the national goal to stop the spread of lead in nature fixed? And does he think it'll be easier or harder to achieve that goal when the Storting is not willing to impose a charge on lead hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1044	On 3 February 2015, the majority of the population moved a step forward in the Norwegian fight against environmental pollutants in Norwegian nature, when the majority decided to establish an action plan for a non-toxic Norway, following a good proposal from the Workers' Party and one from SV. And then the Stortinget took a resolute step back when they adopted another proposal from the Workers' Party, namely to remove the ten-year-old solidly justified and very well-functioning ban on spreading hail with the toxic heavy metal lead in Norwegian nature. This Decision was directly contrary to unambiguous information and clear-time warnings from a non-Norwegian professional community. With all due respect for Swedish reports and for other things – the Norwegian professional community was perfectly clear: this should not be done. So the lifting of the lead-hail ban will be a rather strange moment for anyone who takes the concept of ‘knowledge-based policy’ seriously here in Norway. The straw used to justify the decision was a keen desire to avoid damage shooting, for lead, according to the lead halogenous enthusiasts, should be better than other and more environmentally friendly hail in this way. Then it is worth noting that at the hearing organised by the Energy and Environment Committee on this matter, this was directly contradicted by the Norwegian Hunter and Fisher Federation itself, on direct questions. The association concluded that lead hail has not demonstrated better mortality than other environmentally friendly alternatives. And above all, on a question of whether there was a statistically more damage shooting in the ten years we've had with a lead-hail ban, the answer was no. No more damage shooting has been detected during a period without lead hail. But yes, then we say that lead gives less damage protection. However, when the official justification for releasing toxic lead hail again in Norwegian nature is care for the wild — and not for example. That lead hail is cheap — well then it must be in everyone’s interest to limit lead use to those hunters who really use lead of care for the game, so that you don’t get a situation where lead hail is used by hunters again just because it’s cheap. I have done a little Google search here in the hall, and it shows that lead hail is between 7 and 8 kroner and 12 to 13 kroner for the shot, while bismuth hail is between 17 and 18 kroner per shot. There's a significant difference, there's not an immaterial difference, and everyone understands that the difference may have something to say when people are going to buy shots before hunting in the store. This was therefore the reason why the Green Party presented a logical and constructive proposal for a levy to ensure that lead hail is at the same price as environmentally friendly hail types. We therefore do not propose – and it is with respect to report no basis for claiming it – a rematch on the ban on lead hail. We are simply proposing a levy, which will ensure that lead-haul emissions do not have unintended negative environmental effects. A fee proposed by the Green Party will give hunters who believe that it is better for the wild to be killed with lead hail than with environmentally friendly hail, full freedom to buy lead hail, but at the same time a fee will help to ensure that no more environmentally toxic lead hail is injected into nature just because it is cheap. Because that's not the point – is it? But this proposal is therefore being put to the vote today. The size in 2016 states that it should be cheaper to hunt with toxic lead hail than with environmentally friendly hail, and the official justification is fine-tuning tax-free talk from a finance department that overlooks the basic fact: Leadhagl is cheaper, and people are going to buy it because of it. And the Stortinget therefore downgrades a simple and completely logical decision that is complete in accordance with normal Norwegian environmental thinking, which will help to minimise the negative environmental impact of the lead straw. In this case, the bulk of the population has destroyed a small lobbying group of leadhaglen enthusiasts with a well-functioning and well-founded professional response to the spread of pollutants — the environment without lead in Norwegian nature — and such a policy does not provide much environmental protection. It is almost so that you have to believe that the point in this matter is really just that some hunters will save some luscious kroner on buying lead hail – not at all care for game and nature. However, I would also like to congratulate the Stortinget on the work of a non-toxic Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1059	The Storting asked the Government in its decision of 3 February 2015 to facilitate the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting areas. The majority in the Stortinge gave in Innst. 145 S for 2014-2015 expressed their desire to add to human hunting practice and the most effective killing of the game. To follow up this request decision, lead hail was permitted from 16 July 2015 for hunting for huntable species which are not predominantly in wetlands. The ban on the use of lead hail on shooting tracks was continued. At the same time, the majority of the Committee decided to ask the government to follow developments in the use of lead hail and to gain more knowledge of the health consequences of the use of lead hail in hunting. When lead is an environmental poison in which we, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, have a national goal to stop or reduce significant use and emissions by 2020, I am pleased that the Stortinget has been concerned that it is essential to follow the development of its use. And to answer Eidsvoll Holmås’s question: Yes, the national goal of stopping or reducing significant use and emissions by 2020 is firm. And to answer that second question, it's clear that any use and any increased use of lead will make it harder to achieve that goal. But that is precisely why it is important that the Storting has been concerned that development must be followed, and it is also true that a majority in the committee on the matter we are dealing with today shows that the pursuit of lead hail can pose environmental challenges and calls on the government to monitor the development of the use after the implemented regulatory change. At the same time, a majority in this case emphasises the need to ensure animal welfare and an animal ethically good hunt, and indicates that lead hail provides the most effective means of killing the game. What I want to ensure is that we follow developments and follow the effects of the implemented lead hail regulatory change, and also gain more knowledge about the health consequences of the use of lead hail in hunting. The representative proposes to impose a charge on lead-haul now. I believe that, in line with the Storting decision and intentions, it is right to look at the development and impact of the use of lead hail over a little more time before any new measures are considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1068	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1071	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answers to my questions, and I am very pleased that the Council of State determines that the goal of strongly reducing or stopping the use of lead is firm. I have a follow-up question to the Council of State: What other steps to reduce the presence of lead are taken by the Council of State and the Government to compensate for the increase in the release of lead in nature that we must be able to assume may occur as a result of the lifting of this ban? What other steps will he and the government take?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1078	Lead is phased out, and a very successful policy has been put in place to reduce the amount of lead. One of the remaining challenges is just ammunition. Therefore, it is natural, when we are going to follow developments and see the result of the change in rules that has taken place, that we also look at the remedial measures that need to be put in place. It will be an important part of the assessment, which the Environment Directorate is going to follow very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1083	Thank you for what I see as a positive will and a positive intention to make sure to follow up on what is the overall goal of the Storting, namely to reduce the total emissions of lead in nature, even though – as the Council of State said – it is of course more difficult now when it is suddenly allowed to spread more lead in nature. However, I would like to ask: is there any concrete, other approach that the Council of State will take – outside the ammunition area – to reduce lead emissions in nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1090	Our experience is that the measures that have been implemented, the monitoring that is taking place and the instruments that exist have produced good results. We do not have any new instruments that we consider necessary to implement in the fight against lead now, but given the change in the rules and the prospects for a slightly increased use of lead, it is important, as I said, to follow developments and then to assess what measures must be taken if the dispersion becomes unacceptablely high.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1095	I would like to address what the Council of State said at the end, which was ‘if the spread becomes unacceptable high’. That's not the goal. The goal is to end the use of lead. The goal is not to have lead emissions in nature. Now we have no instruments. The active substances are either to limit the authorisation that is, or to limit the use of fees. There are not many other instruments available to the Council of State. There is no doubt that the use of lead is now being increased when a ban is lifted. And when you don't want to charge, there will be more use and distribution of lead. So it's going in the wrong direction. Then my question becomes: How long does the Council of State think he needs to look at and evaluate the situation before he wants to re-examine it? We need measures to follow up the decision of the Storting to eliminate the use and spread of lead in Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1102	This is an area where the professional authorities must be allowed to make the evaluations of the time required before assessing the situation. Given the seriousness of the heavy metal lead and its properties, I think the Environment Directorate will follow this very closely. But it is possible that you need a couple of hunting seasons in order to evaluate the development. There is no doubt that lead is a heavy metal with serious adverse effects and environmental challenges. It can cause health damage. New research shows that health damage is greater than previously believed. However, in addition to a national target to strongly reduce or eliminate the use of lead by 2020, there are other burdensome national instruments. One of them is from 1814 and is called the Constitution, and the government is following the Storting decision and the intention that lies there from the Stortinge to acquire more knowledge and to ensure that we follow the development and effects of the legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1107	The crucial question is: What is the acceptable distribution of lead in Norwegian nature? Norwegian environmental authorities – insofar as the Stortinget has also replied for 10 years: no lead hail is acceptable in Norwegian nature. Then a decision has been made in Stortinget, across all the professional councils, where it says that lead should be spread in Norwegian nature anyway. The question then arises: has the Council made any sense and received some indications from its colleges on how will the Council of State then measure what is acceptable? Is it e.g. half of the turnover of hail in Norway becomes lead hail? Is it that some large proportion of Norwegian hunters report that they have again started using lead hail, which they have bought in Norway or Sweden? So what will be the measuring point, and when will we get that measuring point, so that the Council of State, for example, come back to Stortinget and tell us if there is an acceptable situation for the use of lead hail or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1115	I believe – like the representative Hansson and the majority of the population – that this is such an important and serious issue, and lead is such an important and serious challenge that it is important that we follow developments closely. It must then be followed continuously, but it is not my role as the Council of State to take the professional evaluation of when we are at a time when more detailed studies are to be carried out, and when the Directorate of the Environment is to report on what is the status and the situation. I'll leave that to the professional authorities. But I consider this to be a matter in which both the decision of the Storting and the professional reasons for looking at this with great seriousness, mean that I will follow it and come back with assessments as soon as the professional authorities see it as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1120	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1125	I asked myself the question when I saw the matter, why we were going to charge a lead hail every day, and I think the case rapporteur and the representative Arnstad answered that quite correctly. For me, this is a rematch on a decision taken in Stortinget. A lead hail tax will have zero environmental benefits on a problem that is not really there. So, as the Center Party writes in its comments on dispersal, there's one hail per 25 square meters per hundred years in the woods and one hail per 100 square meters per hundred years in the mountains. approx. one gram per 100 square meters per hundred years in the mountain – one single, small gram. Then it is not exactly about the big pollution, and this by introducing a tax becomes a symbol policy for me without effect. In the case of animal ethics, there is no doubt that lead hail is more expensive and one will be able to kill the game in a much more efficient way. Blyhagl has a higher estimate energy than the other types of hail we have on the market today. I mean, I think ammunition works the best, no matter what it costs. No matter what the cost of ammunition, the best-performing ammunition, which is the best-performing ammunition, is always considered to be the best-performing ammunition to use. For the ammunition used for e.g. bird hunting and other hunting with hail: there are not so many shots a unlocker in the year that it will have any significance for the wallet. That is why, for me, this is simply a token fee and a symbol policy. And it's a little bad when there's representatives on the pulpit here saying that both the undersigned and other hunters don't take animal ethics seriously when we don't agree with such a fee. And finally, the representative Elvesuen said that he was not interested in taking a professional discussion about this. No, it is the case that facts have destroyed an incredible number of good debates in the past as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1138	I also find reason – after this change of words and in particular, perhaps, after the change of lines – to stress that this is a rematch. This is not about a fee at all; this is about a rematch about a clear decision that was made a year ago. I think that is essentially confirmed both by the posts and by the lines in full. The question of a fee is in a way only a pro forma charge. This is about a rematch about the whole thing, like a lost one last year. That's fair enough. But when the representative Hansson is standing here and saying that we need a knowledge-based management, it's important to establish two things. One is that there are no professional assessments in Norway on the spread of lead hail – none! There is one report on lead pollution in general. There's nothing to say about the spread risk of lead hail. It is the knowledge-based professional administration in Norway today. There is one report, from Sweden, and then the representative Hansson says we can't care about that, because it's Swedish. I have to say that I trust the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has the same role in Sweden as the Environment Directorate in Norway, that they can be trusted. They say, in the case of lead hail, the risk of spreading is minimal – one shot per 100 square meters per hundred years in the mountain, one gram per hundred years per 100 square meters. That spread hazard is minimal. That's what the Environmental Protection Agency says. It does not want the representative Hansson to deal with it, but it is the best professional basis one actually has for the rematch that the minority in Stortinget is trying to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1145	When it is proposed to bring the price of an eco-toxic product up to the same level as the price of an eco-friendly product, but not to propose to prohibit the environmentally hostile product, it is not a countermeasure; it is not an attempt to prohibit what the Storting allowed in its previous consideration of this matter. It must be relatively elementary. The proposal put forward by the Green Party is a proposal to use an environmental tax to prevent an indisputably more environmentally harmful product from being cheaper than an environmentally friendly alternative. It is so fundamental in the way we use prices and charges in Norwegian environmental protection that it is absolutely surprising that we have a debate on it at all, and it is at least surprising that it is called a counter-fight for a ban, which this proposal simply does not affect. It is a fact that the overall professional advice of the Ministry of Climate and Environment at this point is quite unambiguous, it is not open to lead hail again, and it is a fact that the Institute of Public Health, the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, the Food Authority and all other heavy disciplines in Norway warned against this release of lead hail. There is no better professional basis for saying no to the release of lead-haul. That did not belong to Stortinget – okay enough, so we propose to introduce an environmental tax to prevent the damage they all say they want to avoid. To call it a rematch to ignore that I find strange, and at least that is not in accordance with the way we usually treat environmentally harmful goods in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1152	This is definitely no rematch, but I'm not going to hide that I'm awfully opposed to what the Storting did last year, when the ban was lifted. What this is all about is whether or not we should introduce an ordinary environmental tax. An environmental tax was first proposed back in 1990. Then we got a ban, and now it's lifted. As it sounds from the majority, it's almost as if there's an independent point that you're going to use lead hail again. I hope that's wrong, and that it's an advantage that we have hail that is equivalent, and that it's the alternatives that are most widely used. Whether we're not going to have a discussion about the impact of the hail used in the mountains, it's clear that lead has a negative environmental impact, and there's no lower limit to when it's acceptable. It must then be an advantage that the alternatives to ammunition are used to the greatest extent possible. It is then right to have an environmental tax on lead hail without it being prohibited. Then we're dealing with what the Biggest has previously decided. Then there is also an independent point that the polluter pays. It is quite normal that when you use an environmental toxin, you pay a fee and take the extra cost because of the negative effect it has. Blyhagl is one of the largest sources of distribution we get in Norway. It is the largest source of spread in Europe, and then we have to use instruments to reduce it. There is then an ordinary environmental tax for which there is a proposal, an environmental tax that the Storting should decide to introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1161	I take the floor now to inform the Council of what we have adopted in relation to our budgets, and because I have given little thought to the wording of the Council of State. In fact, the Council of State said that the objective was to stop or significantly reduce the use of lead by 2020. Then I'd like to refer to what's in the government budget on page 63. It is under pollution and the national objectives: ‘Dimissions of hazardous substances to health and the environment shall be stopped.’ It shall not be significantly reduced; it shall be stopped. And then it says on page 71 of our state budget: ‘For the specific priority environmental pollutants’, where one of them is lead ‘—over time 30 substances and groups of substances— use and emissions have been considered to be halted by 2020.’ Morten Ørsahl Johansen now said that this is the Progress Party and the Right Budget proposal. The objective of the draft budget is to stop the use of lead by 2020. So the Storting has adopted something else. In the very special case of ammunition, the majority have agreed to say that there is more to it, but the overall goal that the government is presenting in the state budget, and to which the Stortinget has agreed, is to stop the use of harmful substances. We assume that use and emissions will stop by 2020. Then I find reason to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will it be possible to achieve the overall objective of the Storting to stop the use of the lead pollutant by 2020, if this regulatory regulation, adopted by the majority of the population with the opening of lead in ammunition, remains in place until 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1182	It goes without saying that with continued use of lead in Norwegian nature it will not be possible to achieve a halt in the use of lead in Norwegian nature in 2020. It's quite obvious. That's why it's very important that the government has given us an assignment to follow closely the development in the use of lead hail, and that Stortinget has given us a message that with that assessment we also need to have an opening to come back to new assessments of the state. However, the fact that the goal is not achieved with increased use of lead should be obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1195	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1203	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Siv Elin Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the implementation of an independent animal welfare survey of the welfare of chicken production in general and the use of the Ross 308 chicken breed in particular.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1232	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to facilitate the gradual phasing-out of the Ross 308 chicken breed and to ensure that the industry has good access to breeding materials from healthier and more slowly growing breeds.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review stocking density and environmental coverage requirements for chickens for fattening in order to ensure that animal welfare requirements of the Animal Welfare Act are complied with.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1256	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review stocking density and environmental coverage requirements for chickens for slaughter in order to ensure that animal welfare requirements of the Animal Welfare Act are complied with and to meet consumers’ expectations for good animal welfare.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will now support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1677	The first sentence of Section 16, first paragraph, Section 20, fifth and sixth paragraphs, Section 26, first paragraph, second sentence, Section 27, Section 27a, first paragraph, new Section 29a and Section 34, first paragraph. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1692	The third sentence of the second paragraph of Article 27a, fourth sentence and 29, and the new Chapter 8, Sections 35 to 40, shall be added to Article I, Article 8, Article 12, Article 20a, Article 22, Article 26, second paragraph. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1706	It shall be payable on I, Sections 13 and 21. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1720	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1730	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1740	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-10.ana.ud201e1867	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
