ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e45	The representatives Anette Trettebergstuen and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative of Mr Kenneth Svendsen on 16 and 17 February to take part in the Wilton Park Conference under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union in London from the Group of the European People's Party on the leave of the representative of Mr Eirik Sivertsen on 16 and 17 February to take part, as chairman of the Parliamentary Delegation for Arctic Cooperation, in the process of travelling to TrollSat in Antarctica from the Labour Party on the leave of the representative Lise Christoffersen from 16 February to 18 February to take part in the European Parliamentary Assembly Rapporteur for Macedonia from the representatives of Mr Richard Andersen Eide, Ingunn Foss, Rasmus Hansson, Stein Erik Lauvås at the time Leirstein at the time from 15 February to 18 February in order to take part in the journey of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 16 to 18 February in the presence of Mr Berne, Mr Ovåt at the Chamber of Mr Ovårår and Mr Kårår, Mr Ovårårårårårårårår, Mr Ovårår, Mr Ovårårårårårår. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 16th and 17th February under the permission of the representative Kenneth Svendsen, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder states: Benjamin Groenvold 16-18. February For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas 16-18. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== February For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen 16-18. February For the county of Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland 16-18. February For More and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten 16-18. February For the Nordic counties: Greta Johanne Solfall 16-17. ==References====External links== February For Oslo: Une Aina Bastholm 16-18. February For the Rogaland State: Kari Raustein 11 February and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag 16-18. February For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen 16-18. ==References====External links== February
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e194	Kari Raustein is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e200	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen, Øyvind Halleraker and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen, Øyvind Halleraker and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected presidents of the current meeting. The representative, Erik Lundeby, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e207	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Ola Elvestuen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend the scope of the law to cover several important natural areas in the Oslo region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e212	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e226	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e233	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Fylkesnes, who was originally the rapporteur for the matter, but who has now replaced the committee. Taking over the case-presidency in the delivery meeting has not offered many cooperation challenges. I would also like to thank the Workers' Party for putting the search light on a very important topic. The center party is also concerned that the school should have more focus on building the whole human being. Many people are very busy training physically. We know that it helps to make us in better shape also mentally, but it's not enough to prevent mental disorders. That's why it's important that we're also conscious of training mentally, i.e. to train how we use our minds. It requires awareness, it needs to be learned early, and it needs to be practiced. Sports stars do it. They practice focusing on what after all was good, and believing that they can actually master a situation if they think about the right things. Such a positive reinforcement is automatic for some, while for others it has to be taught. It's about training marine awareness, marine life and marine respect. It must be practised in school, as proposed by the proposers, but self-training is also important. The proposers point out that the health habits we develop early in life have an impact on our health later in life. That's why it's so incredibly important how we experience our childhood and youth. This applies to growing-up conditions in the family and community, but also to what we experience in kindergarten, school and leisure. We discuss bullying in school at regular intervals in this room. Unfortunately, the number of people who experience bullying in school remains roughly stable. I hope we will soon come more thoroughly back to the bullying problem in the follow-up to the report of the Djupedal Committee. Bullying in high school can lead to injuries that can trigger mental problems in later life. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that everything that is reported, or checked as ‘mubbing’ in school, is taken seriously. No kid should get the impression that what he or she feels or has experienced or seen is not real. Good mental health is about more than bully-free schools. Psychiatric health can result in overall impacts from eating disorders to sea damage and depression. We need to focus more on the mental health of children and young people and how we can help make them strong enough to be content with their seas, so that they do not submerge, harm themselves or others, or choose to end their lives. In this context, as parents and authorities, we also need to get in the way of thinking about how we affect our kids and young people. We want our kids the best, but the question is whether we want so much as parents and governments that the kids feel that they are disappointing us when they do not achieve the goals they feel we want them to achieve. We expect full tightening of schoolwork, we expect top characters, they train, behave neatly, eat healthy, don't smoke or drink, etc. etc. – this despite the fact that today’s youth has never been more decent. Per Fugelli, professor of social medicine, who I read about in the newspaper today, has given the following advice to the Nordics: "Give me a little more fuck and get a better life." With all the tests, tests and expectations that we should perform best, the school challenges this. Many young people feel so much pressure that they get sick from it. We will all face adversity and tough periods in life. Then it's important that we've trained so much so early, even mentally, that we can get through the difficult times without the damage becoming fatal. Professor Fugelli has made six points for a better life. I think a version of these points should enter the ‘new’ general part of the curriculum that has been announced. I want to read them out because I think they're important to all of us, also here in the hall: Don't put too much demands on yourself and others. Give a little more f... be happy to be and do "good enough". Stop complaining and lower your expectations about everything you think you need. Accept that life consists of both joy and sorrow, defeat and loss. Include everyone in the ‘flock’, so that everyone can enjoy being with others. Have maritime respect, then you get respect and thus power and ability to move towards your own goals. Good mental health is a social responsibility as much as good physical health is. Public health consists of both body and mind. So Per Fugelli's words for better mental health should be part of the general curriculum: "We have to learn to give a little more damn."
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e283	Many Norwegian school students say they're stressed, they say they can't sleep at night, and they feel that they don't go to sleep. In my home country, Telemark, figures from the study Young in Telemark 2015 show that nearly half of the girls in the last week have worried a lot and felt that everything is a pain. Psychiatric disorders are a major health problem in children and adolescents today. We also know that mental health problems are one of the main causes of school dropouts. According to the Institute of Public Health, we can always count on 15-20 pst. in children and young people between the ages of 3 and 18 have reduced function due to mental distress such as anxiety, depression and behavioural problems, and we can also expect about 8 pst. of children and young people have problems that are so serious that they meet the criteria for mental illness. If we look more closely at it and connect it from age, we know that almost half of us once in life are going to experience a mental disorder in some form. Statistically, it'll be either me or you. These figures show that the problem is large, wide-spectrumed, and the consequences of many – from small plagues that stress everyday to diagnostics that require treatment. Last year I saw the strong and unsensored documentary "Ida's Diary". It takes the life of Ida Strand for granted as mentally ill. Ida wants the school to take greater responsibility for training in mental health. I agree with her. This is also the background to the proposal from the Labour Party that we are debating today. For generations, the school has taught the physical health of the students. Physical activity and nutrition have been part of the school for many years, through subjects such as body training and food and health, while mental health – by comparison – has been treated voicelessly through few and diffuse formulations in the curriculum. The Labour Party believes that we need to ensure that students have more knowledge of mental health through the school's subjects, so that children and young people are fully trained in the physical and mental health of the body. The most important thing we do for our health is what we do before we get sick. More and more research shows that training in different ways related to mental health, thoughts, feelings and behaviour has a good preventive effect on mental problems and disorders. In recent times, bullying has been discussed a lot, and I believe, like the rapporteur, that more transparency and knowledge about mental health in school could create a more open class environment, where the individual is given tools to understand, be seen and not least heard. I am pleased that our proposals coincide with the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee, the expert committee that has made recommendations on the school of the future. Psychiatric health is one of the areas that they develop, where there is a need to strengthen what students should learn in school. School health services play an important role in getting students who experience everyday life as a little difficult on the right track. We propose in the document that the government promote proposals for a further strengthening of health centres and school health services. Before Christmas, Norsk Nursing Association presented a comprehensive study of the presence of health sisters in school. The figures show that the number of health sisters in primary school needs to be increased by 125 pst. to reach the recommended standard number. Studies confirm that there is a high distance from the recommended minimum standard to actual school attendance. We have to take this seriously, and I'm glad that several parties agree that the school health service needs to be strengthened, but it doesn't help much that we agree if there isn't a change in the individual municipality, in the individual school for each student. Therefore, it is necessary to designate transfers to the school health service to a greater extent. ‘The school cannot solve all the challenges in society’ said Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Evening Post when young people’s mental health was on the agenda last autumn. He also underlined this in the questionnaire a short time ago. On a general basis, I agree with him, but some things are more important than others. Attention, knowledge and awareness of mental health are among those things. I'll take up the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e309	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e312	The generation of young people we have today is in very many ways the best generation of young people we've ever had. It's unusual for older people to say it about those who are young, but it's actually true when it comes to today's young people. They run less, as well as none of them smoke, and they're busy performing and succeeding at school and in the workplace. Studies show that they are concerned about people around them and that they will not succeed as well as themselves. And they like to spend time with their own parents. This may be some generalising feature, but it's just as full that these are findings from various surveys that confirm some trends in the generation. I find it hard to imagine a better generation to take over the world than the one that is young today. Every generation is in many ways a reaction to the previous one. Where the young people of the 1940s and '50s were to build the country, the young people of the 1960s and '70s came up with a political uprising against the established. In the 1980s and 1990s, what has been called the "ironi generation" came with which everything and everyone could be fooled, and where they were fooled by the very political generation before them. Today’s young people have been called both “generational seriousness” and “generational performance” – not least because of the characteristics I mentioned earlier. It is also the case that, while previous generations have directed their rage beyond society, towards power, today’s generation of young people is a generation that has grown up with the story that they can get to what they want, and become what they want. If you don't get to everything, who's to blame? Too many young people today are apprehending themselves with the raison d'être of past generations of young people. In addition, you get social media, which makes it both painful to get bullied and easier to bully, as well as to compare – not with the reality of other people, but with the glamour of life of other people on Facebook and other social platforms. Therefore, mental health is very important also in school and perhaps more important for this generation than it has been in the past. That is why I am also pleased with the draft representative, because it contributes to a good and important debate in this Chamber on how best to help more young people succeed. There is an overall committee that points out the relationship between mental health and learning something at school. It's important to say that we're already doing a lot. We have competence objectives in several subjects on the relationship between mental and physical health. The 0–24 cooperation has been developed, which helps municipalities and counties to ensure that more students complete and pass through higher education, especially those most at risk. We carry out a research mission called ‘A team around the student’, which looks at how different occupational groups can best support students who are mentally struggling. When it became a new majority in 2013, we fortunately stopped the red-green government's proposal to cut the whole pot for what was called mental health in school, and that has helped to get other people with mental health skills into school. All that competence can't be in the classrooms. It is quite incredible – with the back cover I have now drawn – that you came up with the idea of cutting the allocation to get more people with skills into school who can contribute to a better mental health. I could keep ramming up things we do, but the most important thing is to strengthen the first line of the knowledge society, and that's the teacher. It's not about the teacher being a social worker, a health sister and all these different things, but about the teacher having the skills to identify when it's wrong, and trying to figure out what's the difference between a boy or a girl being a little quiet and that there's a problem. That is why we do a great deal both in teacher training and in continuing and continuing training to ensure that teachers have that competence. It's also about organization. We have organized ourselves in a rather strange way by the county councils being responsible for the high school students, while the municipalities are responsible for the primary school. Here I would like to highlight the example of Akershu County, which is using its own resources to strengthen the health care and counselling services in high school. We can't organise ourselves in such a way that it's primarily the levels of government that are to be the plug for getting the help you need. In addition, I am very pleased that we have significantly strengthened the health care and health care centres since the government change – by over 600 million. kr more to the municipalities. In the budget agreement, part of this money was also earmarked, so that they benefit the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e331	The proposal to focus on mental health in schools addresses a major and important problem in today’s Norway. In the examination of the proposal, the Committee has assumed that mental health is one of Norway’s main public health challenges. 400,000 children suffer from mental illness. 70,000 children and young people suffer from mental disorders requiring treatment. According to the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, mental health disorders cost society more than 185 billion dollars. kr per year. At the same time, we know that much of this can be prevented. There is a consensus that there is a need for a strong escalation of mental health efforts among children and young people. The basis for good, life-long health is laid in childhood and youth, and good conditions for child and youth growth are among the most important tasks in society. The progress party believes that the school is a particularly good venue because it is a meeting place for all children and young people. In particular, a well-developed school health service is important, and this has been working for many years. An important response to mental health problems is to get more professionals competent in this area into school. In the 2016 state budget, EUR 15 million has been allocated. kr to the project ‘A team around the student’ to test different models where professional groups other than teachers are also part of the school staff to strengthen the learning environment. School health services and health centres for young people are key areas for the prevention of mental illness, and these should be an easily accessible low-threshold service for children and young people. Here we will refer to the 2016 budget agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to grant 100 million. kr for this purpose, as earmarked funds, in addition to strengthening the prevention of health work for children and young people of 200 million. kr in the free income of municipalities. It is positive that the government strengthens the prevention of mental health and drug addiction, among other things. by strengthening the recruitment grant for the creation of 150 new psychologist’s works in the 2016 budget. The government also follows up the public health communication and continues its efforts to address mental health interventions in schools. I would also like to point out that the government has continued to invest in the Psychiatric Health programme in school, which the red-green government proposed to wind up. The fight against bullying is also an important part of the work on good mental health. Here, the Djupedal Committee has made many good proposals, and a new partnership for bullying has been signed, in which twelve central organisations in the school and kindergarten sectors will work together with the government against bullying and for a good learning environment. In the 2016 state budget, about 30 million have been put off. kr for work against bullying and for a good learning environment. I think it is important to remember that it is the municipalities that are responsible for building up an accessible school health service for children and young people. Therefore, the free revenues of municipalities in the budgets for 2014, 2015 and 2016 have been increased by a total of 677 million. kr, justified in the bet on this from the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties Left and Christian People's Party. Prevention costs, but the Progress Party believes that these costs must be seen as an investment for the future. The most important thing about prevention is that more people achieve good and healthy lives. In addition, prevention is profitable from a long-term societal perspective. It is therefore important, both human and economic, with a strong commitment to mental health in children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e348	Good mental health is a prerequisite for personal development and well-being. Mental health is generally a priority for the Christian People's Party, but especially for children and young people. We need to step up efforts in this area. The prevention of school and school health is an invaluable investment in the health of children and young people and in our common future. The figures clearly show that there is a need for a bet. The proposal for a representative refers to frightening statistics on the extent of mental illness. Last week we got new figures from the Swedish Institute of Public Health and the Hedmark College, which tells of a doubling in the use of antidepressants among teenage girls. The NOVA report Young in Oslo 2015 also reported that far more young people are struggling psychologically now than a few years ago. In this context, the Christian People's Party will refer to its own proposal to introduce the project Life Mastery at the School in Youth. It's not meant to be a new subject, but as a resource for the schools, according to the model of the cultural school bag. The cultural school bag attracts professional cultural actors into school to provide students with cultural experiences and cultural skills, i.e. a new and different venue than the daily schooling. Similarly, we see that we can involve professionals from other areas, who can teach young people about topics that are relevant to them in everyday life. For example, it would be natural for health sisters, sociologists and psychologists to come in and talk about body pressure, self-image, intoxication, interpersonal relations and mental health. With regard to the current proposals, we would like to point out that in several disciplines there are skills objectives that say that students should learn to relate mental and physical health, prevention and what individuals can do to improve their own mental health. But beyond this, we should wait for the follow-up of the Ludvigsen Committee and hear what comes out there. As far as school health is concerned, the Christian People's Party is pleased to have helped to strengthen this – again – in the budget conciliation before Christmas. There we got an average of 100 million extras to be earmarked for positions in school health services and health stations, while another 200 million. kr was to be granted over the municipal framework. This is incredibly important, and we need to hire more people in order to capture challenges among children and young people where they are, who understand them, and who have the skills to handle what comes out. According to the Health Directorate’s school health standard, some 1 000 jobs are still lacking. The Children’s Ombudsman describes the service in many places as being directly irresponsible, and this concerns the Christian People’s Party, which wants a quality standard for school health services and to strengthen the capacity of health stations. Both over eight red-green years and under the current government, money has been allocated to the school health service over the municipal framework, but it seems that it has ended up in the big swallow – despite the fact that many parts of the field have repeatedly asked for ear tagging. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we've just got that designation. Then it will be a political responsibility to follow up with sufficient resources in the years to come. As regards data collection, it is now being worked on by the government as a follow-up to the public health communication. They want, among other things: establish a common register of mental health and disorders, based on existing national registers. Such a register will provide new knowledge of occurrence, causes and risk factors and of the impact and quality of treatment. I have personally worked with young people for 33 years and know that the youth we currently have is very resourceful and great. They're our future, and we have to give them the best terms. That's why mental health is so important, and that as responsible politicians, we dare to go into this and do what is necessary to secure what is our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e369	When one reads the position on the issue we are now dealing with, there are at first a number of figures showing what the major societal challenge and public health challenge is mental illness. It puts things in perspective a little bit when you see the huge sizes we're talking about. And it's clear that it's a social problem when people drop out of school, when people have to go to Nav, when people can't master their everyday life. But what's even more important than the fact that it's a social problem is that it's a huge problem for the one that's involved, the one that's hit by this. Mastering your life and being mentally healthy are important to everyone. That is why it is also important that we have this issue on the agenda and that these kinds of issues, these challenges, are raised. We in the Kuf Committee are responsible for both primary, secondary and university education, and psychological challenges, mental distress, are what we see across the board. When we have student studies up to treatment, when doing studies among the students, they also show that the students have major mental problems. Special girls are exposed to it. So it's a serious problem we as politicians are facing. Many have talked about bullying in school, that it is an important topic – and it is an important topic. I think a lot of us are starting to get a little impatient, because it's a topic that we have up to debate a lot and often, but we don't feel like we're going anywhere. We can discuss it for hours. But what does it help when the individual student is still being bullied? In Stavanger Municipality, where I used to be a local politician, there was a school principal who said that the only thing that helps against bullying is to focus on it continuously. I think she's right about that -- it has to be focused on the Stortinget, among school owners, principals and in classrooms. Bullying can only be combated by constantly focusing on it, and it is so important for individuals to experience a school day, a everyday life, which is free from bullying, and it will also contribute to better mental health for those exposed to bullying. Many have also been concerned with this with the pressure of expectation and today’s youths who are so real. I guess that's also what we see in the student surveys that are being done, that the pressure of expectation from society and the pressure of expectation that they put on themselves is so great that it's hard to deal with. School health is the most important factor we can control when it comes to addressing these challenges, because it's the low-threshold service we have. That's where everyone can come in, that's where the door is always open, that's where there's always someone to help. That is why I am glad that we, along with the government, have taken up the school health service and received more health sisters. As Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal of the Christian People's Party had in mind, it's a challenge that municipalities do other priorities than what we from Stortinget wish they did when it comes to bet on health sisters – but at least we've got a little earmark there, and then we'll see if it can help, and if there's anything we need to assess further. So I think it should be said that when we talk about school health, we can't just talk about health sisters, because school health needs to be about much more than just that. It has to be about psychologists, it has to be about psychiatric nurses – someone even chooses to hire police because they meet young people where they are and with the challenges they face. That's how the teacher is the most important adult in school, and the teachers are the ones who meet the students every day. Teachers cannot deal with or fix all the problems that students have, but it is important that we have teachers who are safe adults and who can identify the challenges that students face. When you talk to teachers, they tell you that the challenges students have today are much bigger than those they had before. They have students who have much more serious problems than the students they met earlier. It's because of relationships in the home, it's because of addiction, it's because of a variety of things, but that the challenges in school are getting bigger, are at least the feedback we get. Then it is important that we enable the teacher to identify them, and that we have professional groups in school that can help to address the challenges that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e391	During the work on this matter, the Workers' Party's and SV's fractions had a seminar, a collection, with several of the organisations that have been the drivers of, among others. the proposals made in today’s room – Mental Health Youth, the Student Organisation, SchoolProffene, under the direction of the Change Factory. It was a collection that made – I think – a strong impression on all of us who were there, and that underlines that the theme ‘Psychiatric health in school’ is something that has come up higher and higher on the agenda because it is raised by youth itself. It gives us extra reason – I think – to take this matter seriously, to listen to the suggestions that are coming, and to listen to the demand for action that children and young people themselves are promoting towards us. I think this case is also a reminder to us that we have organized the school day in Norway so that it does not take good enough care of the whole human being, and that this is part of the broad debate on how we can organize the school day in another way, so that the whole child, the whole youth, is taken care of. We have the school to learn, that's what's the school's social mandate, and to learn, you have to feel good. School is the most important arena in the everyday lives of many children and young people, and it is a platform for the rest of your life. SchoolProfessors have recorded an hour’s suggestion on ‘Life’, not an hour on different mental health diagnoses, but an hour on mastering life, on living life, on dealing with each other. It's not sure we're going to do it just like that, but the way I think about it is right and important. So it's very easy in such a debate that we start to generalize about generations. I'm a little worried about it. I think there are no generations that are just as described. First of all, this generation of young people also consists of different individuals, but it is a generation of young people who are under intense pressure in some areas, perhaps without a generation of young people before. There is a huge commercial pressure, where a person tries to push children and young people into a specific framework for how they are going to be and what they're going to look like. It's an increasing performance pressure. We, as education policy makers, must think through our responsibilities for this too, for example. in a school system where the scope of testing and ranking is wide. And we know that bullying is still a big problem in Norwegian school. I am delighted to be the case rapporteur for other proposals – which are now under consideration in the Committee – related to this. But a fundamental part of a good school policy and a good education policy must also be to create well-being and security. I believe that this is seriously underestimated in the debate on school policy today. The success of making school an arena also for good mental health, for good public health, will be an incredibly important health policy. That's why we in SV are concerned that we need to get ahead of the policy that is initially agreed in Stortingen, namely to get health sisters in place in all our schools to a much greater extent than today. We're calling for a ringing of those means, so we'll succeed. We believe that our proposals for a full-time school are part of the answer in the context of what we are discussing now, because it will provide room for greater diversity of subjects and hours, a repatriation of practical-esthetic subjects. This will mean that new occupational groups enter the school. These are incredibly inspiring examples of the success of schools, for example: inclusion in the school of social workers, environmental therapists, youth workers, child protection educators, cooks – i.e. very different occupational groups – which can have contact with children and young people in a role different from that of teachers. Increased teacher density is important. Therefore, it is a paradox that this comes up on the same day as the media can warn that the Council of State is considering removing the 600 teaching positions in high school that the previous government introduced for a four-year period. There are three proposals from the Workers' Party and SV. They've already been promoted. I think it is sad that we are alone about them, but this is a debate Stortinget certainly comes back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e411	I just have to start with two words about what the representative Lysbakken said. The previous government granted money to 600 high school positions with the explicit commitment that this should be a pilot project and that it should last for four years. It is then natural for the Education Directorate to report that the pilot project launched by the Red-Greens has been completed after the four years. What's going to happen to that money will, of course, be decided in the state budget. So I fully agree with those who ask: Should this have been started with follow-up research related to it? Yes, it should. Therefore, it is good to note that the new majority of the Stortinget after budgetary conciliation with the Left and Christian People's Party – especially after the involvement of the Christian People's Party, it must be said – has granted some 800 million. kr for more teaching positions and priority early work from 1st grade to 4th grade. It gives room to hire at least 1,000 teachers in the municipalities, but we have also provided funds for the largest research project in the time on the impact of multiple teaching positions. It's a research project where research is going to cost 50 million. So I'm going to spend $490 million. kr to the teachers to be employed in connection with this. So more into the proposal for a representative: I think the proposers point to very many important public health challenges. I fully agree with both the reasoning that safety, belonging, mastering and meaning are important factors in promoting mental health and also that there are some things that indicate that today's generation of young people is under a greater pressure than before, simply because everything is more visible. We also know, as several representatives have been involved, that there are commercial interests behind this that have no scruples about building on especially maybe young girls initially low self-esteem. Still, it's that we don't have to paint black. The vast majority of Norwegian students thrive at school, they do well, and most of them also have good mental health. Then the school students will acquire knowledge of both the body, health, lifestyle and nutrition. The 2008 objective paragraph states that students should also be able to develop skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and community. Similarly, the Education Act states Chapter 9a and principles for training — The educational plaque — that the school should work for the physical and psychosocial learning environment and that it should promote health, well-being and learning. In other words, I believe that mental health is not invisible in the curriculum or the school framework today, rather on the contrary. However, I still agree with the rapporteurs that there is a need for an even better and stronger work for, among other things. mental health at school. A very important part of it, as I have also written to the Committee, is the work done on the follow-up to the so-called Ludwigsen Committee, NOU 2015:8 The school of the future, the renewal of skills and competences, where they also point out that the students need to become more aware of how to take care of their own lives, including their physical and mental health, and recommend that we focus on a public health and lifelong learning perspective in subjects where relevant. There is an analysis that I have a considerable sense of, and there is also something the government is now assessing and looking at how we should follow up. We also – and there have been several times in this room – to follow up on the Djupedal Committee's position, have worked as quickly as we can, and will come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals to strengthen the anti- bullying work. We have already started this year, among others. to grant 10 million. for the enhancement of competence. Primary teacher training is also important. In the new framework plan for primary education, it is clear that all teachers should know what they do if they discover, for example. violence and sexual assault, which can obviously be behind some mental health disorders. Nursing and health services have been important for both government and the new growth rate. So this is going to be 668 million in total. kr in the municipal framework to strengthen health station and school health services. After the last budgetary settlement, there is also money that is earmarked for it. It's an important part of the reinforcement. The government will also develop better data on the mental health of the population. Among other things, we need to: establish a common register that provides us with a comprehensive overview of mental health and drug problems. In other words, I believe that this proposal for a representative is very good, but I also believe that the government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget are doing very well. It is not said that we are satisfied, we still have a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e435	This is a little confusing. My question is really quite brief and correct: why do the Right and the Government do not support the proposals of the Workers' Party and the SV when one goes far in saying that one agrees with the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e440	Now I do not think it is unusual in Stortinget that proposals such as there is a relatively broad consensus on the intention behind are annexed to the Minutes, that is, rather than adopting the proposals. The first reason is that adopting proposals that the government is already working on, which the majority of people have prioritised highly, may seem like butter in bottle. The second — and perhaps the most important — reason is that when discussing mental health and mental health places in school, I think it needs to be done in a complete way. Therefore, it is natural to take this discussion in its full width when the government returns to the Stortinget with the follow-up of the Ludvigsen selection. Then you'll have a chance not only to talk about the intentions, but also to look more specifically at where this fits, and have consideration of how much space it should have, and what subjects it might be relevant to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e447	I am pleased that the Council of State mentions the Ludvigsen Committee and the follow-up to that work. State councils also regularly draw recommendations from the selection to clear curricula in order to accommodate the most important things in school. Let me ask the question in a slightly different way: Are mental health defined as one of the important things, and are the councils interested in clearing up curricula in such a way that there will be a real strengthening of training in mental health, as the Ludvigsen Committee clearly recommends?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e452	The answer to that is yes. Clearing the curriculum doesn't mean that everything is going out, but it means more things. First of all, it means that some subjects that have a lot of competence goals, maybe especially Norwegian and mathematics, need to be cleared to get to the core of the subject. In other disciplines with a high level of competence, such as: Natural science, with a few hours in primary school, we have to spend more hours. That's what the government has decided to do, and it comes from the harvest. The third is to consider whether we can have some general themes that fit into several subjects. Calling it mental health may be a little bit slim, but if you call it lifelong learning, as someone has done, or public health challenges, I think it's a subject that belongs naturally in several subjects, but of course on the subject's own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e457	I would like to make it clear that the Central Party will support proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 3 we think is quite well taken care of as it is today. So to the state council, which still refers to both the Djupedal and Ludvigsen committees: I just imagine that it's going to take quite a while before we deal with that follow-up. What I think is that the most important thing is that you don't develop mental disorders, and that we focus on preventing and not on treatment, because now we've come up with a lot of steps to take after, to look after. So in my article I mentioned the general part of the curriculum. There the Council of State has previously announced that a new part of the general curriculum will come. I think there are many more people than me who are concerned that that curriculum is somehow being sub-communicated today, we are focusing so much on the subject plan. My question to the Council of State is whether the new general curriculum will be as modern as Per Fugelli – when it comes to taking the whole human being seriously. And when is it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e468	The six commandments for Per Fugelli are not going to be in the general part of the curriculum, I can assure you that. I understand what Per Birdli is trying to say, and for some people it may be that it is important to be able to be content with the fact that you have done your best. At the same time, it is important that the school inspires students for further efforts. The school should expect a lot of students, and the school should support them, so that all students can feel mastery. With regard to the general part and the follow-up of both the Djupedal and Ludvigsen committees, I have said that we aim to send out concrete consultation proposals regarding the Djupedal Committee during this six-month period. We are also aiming to bring back a follow-up to parts of the Ludvigsen Committee – both the general part and possible curriculum reform – during this year. We're aiming at that, and the general part is included in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e475	Today, we have the school health service on one side, and then we have the PPT on the other side. School health services run with what they're doing, while PPT kind of operates with a little bit of the same thing. It's just that PPT looks at the system itself, at education, at how they can change the everyday school life of the individual student in order to make it easier for the student to get better. Something is overlapping, while something is very different from what they're doing, but today it's kind of two doors. I wonder if the Council of State thinks that we have organized ourselves in the most appropriate way possible, when a student who needs the help of both the school health service and the PPT – or perhaps does not know who you need the help from – has to deal with both of them, instead of there being one door in, and that it is the one who is there to come, who is assessing what you really need help for, whether there are symptoms to be treated, or whether there is a system that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e480	After the Nav reform, I have gained more limited faith that moving blocks and drawing on organisational maps will automatically improve the offer for those who need it most. But what's crucial is that the different parts of the public talk together. For example, the best municipalities manage. making regular teams around the children, the young people or the adults who need it the most, where you are less concerned with the formal boundaries between different parts of the public system, and more concerned with tailoring an offer around the individual. We also have a project headed by the Ministry of Knowledge, and how many other departments are involved, which we call the 0-24 cooperation. There is one goal that we should start that coordination also nationally, among other things. by clarifying what they can do in common, and by reducing them, so that municipalities can receive assistance, help and advice on how they can be better coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e485	In his intervention in the debate, the right mentioned the role of teachers in the fight against bullying, and the role of teachers in detecting children and young people who are struggling. I think the teacher's density in high school must be a very relevant question for this matter – I want to go back to today's news of the message that some of these experimental schools have received from the Directorate of Education – because if it's that way that the Council of State has not taken a decision on continuation or not, it's very strange that the directorate sends out a message that the schools have to prepare for this to end. Then my question is, Will the Minister of Knowledge do anything to make the schools aware that this is not the case, and when does he intend to make a decision on continuation or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e493	This money was granted by the red-green government, who after talking a lot about teacher's density well ended up with this as one of the most important suggestions: teaching positions in an experimental period of four years. Then it is quite natural to inform you that the trial period is now over. This money is in the budget, it is a budgetary decision on how to use it further, and that decision will come in connection with the 2017 government budget. Then you'll get an answer to what you politically choose to do with these means, so it's not possible to give an answer now. I believe that these funds could have been better used if you were not only concerned with granting the money, but were also concerned with rigging proper research projects. If you're going to do good follow-up research, you can't do it for two or three years in a project, you have to rig the follow-up research from the first moment, so you can prove any positive effects. It wasn't done. Then it was not possible to do anything about it afterwards. Once the new majority of the Stortinget has allocated money to teaching positions – many priority 1–4. Class – many of the money has also been rigged to spend 490 million. kr to hire more teachers, and then follow-up research projects are started from the very beginning. It will be the largest research project of the time on the impact of multiple teaching positions, perhaps in the education sector at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e500	I couldn't leave it behind that the Center Party was concerned that all the kids in Norwegian school were going to give blanks. That was not quite good, because I am not concerned about that. But I think it's very important, what Per Fugelli has said to us as human beings, whether we're on the Storting or where we are -- we should have been everywhere, we too, at any time -- because there's something about trying to say to ourselves that this is actually good enough, that's good enough. That doesn't mean we're not going to have expectations for our youth, or we're not going to have expectations for our sails. The council said we should expect to do something more than to be our best edition of our sea, I think we must be satisfied with being the best edition of our sea. I want to ask the council if he understands that our pressure, our rhetoric and our way of dealing with our young people puts a lot of pressure on children and young people out there – it's all right to be human if you don't go to talent school too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e507	It was a difficult question, but it is clear that in some cases high expectations may also fail, especially if there are expectations that are not backed up by real help to achieve their goals. We have to make a very clear distinction between the professional at school and that of the individual. A school recently took after an Australian school and sent out a covering letter with the characters, where it said something about the characters saying something about what you can do in the subjects, it doesn't say anything about you as a human being – how good you are as a brother or sister, or how good you are to sit babysitting, or how good you are to dance. I thought it was very, very nice. And that's actually also a very important principle point that the character should not consider the entire student. The school shall also build up throughout the human being. The school has a dual assignment, both education and education. But the grade should say something about the student's professional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e514	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e519	Just a few reflections from me: I have been in Norwegian politics long enough to know that when the government is working on something, it is difficult to vote for proposals in Stortinget without further ado. At the same time, I think it is a bit funny to experience such a discussion about something that is really very much in agreement – when we have a government that says that they fully agree with all the intentions that proposers have. Of course, the proposers are very concerned about this. The government says they're working on something that might look like it. Could we not then get one step further in the matter and perhaps reinforced the decision something? Instead, we who promote the proposal will be met, for example. attack that we have removed the project Psychiatric Health in school. It would have been interesting to hear if Councillor Røe Isaksen could explain what the reason was that the then government took away this project. Following the recommendation of the 2010 Sintef research results and the 2011 Public Health Institute, it was concluded that this type of work is too important for it to be organised as a project. For projects, they are limited and projects do not produce lasting results. I think here we might be at the heart of the problem we're discussing. If we are to succeed in public health work, the Labour Party – and the whole centre-left of Norwegian policy, I would say – believes that broad measures must be taken by everyone, not just a few through, for example. a project. You can't just target people who have already had problems, who are struggling and basking, this must be something that hits us all. You'll succeed in public health work. What's the matter here, is that yes, life is complicated, and we're very different, but the researchers tell us that we gradually know quite a bit about what are the factors that, if we know about them, protect us from experiencing poor mental health. And we know a part about what are the risk factors. Getting a conversation at school about what we know about this, systematically and in an unbureaucratic way, and getting kids to experience early can actually prepare for this together with those around them, I think I had been a fantastic public health measure that we should gather about. I fully agree that this could of course have been proposed before. We were then overthrowing the country for eight years, couldn't we suggest it that time? But the world is moving forward. We have ears, we listen, and we develop policies. After all, we all agree on the proposal, I think it's a little funny that we couldn't go one step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e532	The previous talk talked about what it is that works. I can then tell you that this weekend I have had a visit by my mental crisis team. It's not the health sister from high school, it's not a psychologist, it's not a psychiatrist – it was a farmer, a teacher and two nurses, also known as my childhood friends. Good friends and a safe youth environment to grow up in are the best prevention of mental health. We have an Oslo weekend every year. I like it when I was ten years old, and we have it just as politely. Life goes up and down for all people. Everyone experiences ups and downs mentally. What it's all about is how you learn to deal with it, how you learn to deal with the challenges you're facing. It is then clear that good health sisters – like, for example, In Asker, which has a course for children in mental health, do a good job to get this done. But there's no doubt that anti- bullying, good, wise adults and a normal growth where you get a normal friend gang is the best prevention for the rest of your life for your mental health. That means we don't have to do this professionally, don't think this is something that professionals can fix. No, these are actually just good breeding environments that can fix. I was a kid in the 1980s. Then we had a number of youth messages. It has not seen the Norwegian political system since the late 1980s and early 1990s, where youth policy was discussed in general. But for children's mental health, it's not just the health sister that's important. There are also cultural services, leisure activities, opportunities to develop as a human being, opportunities to make friends across the school environment in which you grow up. Therefore, if you are to look at mental health and how to combat mental ‘disease’, you need to see the whole youth environment and youth growth as a whole. So maybe we should now have a new youth message that talked about child and youth culture, but also about how we make child and youth policies in a much broader sense. For one of the major challenges of ‘Generation Perfect’, we are going to create a workbook that will take on the major challenges ahead of switching Norway, and we are going to do so with young people who are so kind to the system that they do not rebel against it. We know that we need a generation of young people who are rebelling, asking the critical questions, just to make the changes in society that we know we need. That, I believe, is a perspective that has not been part of this debate, but which is quite important for the future development of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e543	It is said that much makes sense in this debate. In the previous article, the leader of the Left pointed out that the growing-up conditions of children and young people, the general picture of society, also affect the mental health of children and young people. The Labour Party fully agrees that a society with small differences provides better growth conditions for young people and thus also better mental health. That is why we are strongly opposed to a policy that leads to greater differences and worse conditions for the poor. The fact that parents have work contributes to the stability of the family and that there are good growing-up conditions. That is why it is deeply worrying that in 2016 we probably have the highest number of unemployed Norway ever had. A good cultural offer, voluntary activity, sports teams, various activities are important. That is why we have implemented a great cultural promise, such as: contributed to 1 billion. in VAT refund for the voluntary sector. So I fully agree that these are important things. But then it is, unfortunately, that although this is the overall and the preventive, the good society, some children and young people will experience that they have unsafe conditions, that they have mental challenges, that they suffer mental disorders or mental disorders that mean that they have problems with the daily function. All experience suggests that the earlier you can provide help, the earlier you can provide support, the earlier you can give young people an understanding of their own situation — the ability to reflect on different challenges — the better you can help. I am absolutely convinced that the relatively small crowns – it is probably a few days’ tax cut – we could use to ensure that children and young people got this competence, this help and this support in school, where everyone goes, we would save many times in terms of fewer being dissatisfied, fewer falling out of work, fewer having long-term mental disorders, and more having a good life. That's when it's so strange, that the Torgeir Micasen was also involved, when all the parties say they agree with this, why they don't just do it. What particularly bothered me a little bit was that the left, who was very eager at this last period, who promoted Document 8 proposals and stood on, now suddenly rather will go into the heels of the Right and Advance Party. Could we not create a majority for this, oblige the government to implement, ensure that people got good growth conditions and the help they need when not the framework conditions are there? The bonus would be more learning, enhanced implementation of high school, enhanced skills for the future's working life, but above all better quality of life for an entire generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e568	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e575	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for the good cooperation in this matter and that we have reached such a broad consensus. It promises further political follow-up of school owners on these important issues. I'm assuming that the minority is making its views known. The right and the committee believe that all schools in Norway should be dyslexic and dyscal and ensure a good follow-up of the individual at the earliest opportunity. In this way, we help more people to achieve good basic skills and to complete and pass what is too much basic education in Norway, that is, the 13-year-old school cycle. The dropout in secondary school and the skills of primary school are closely related. The adapted training principle includes both regular and special training. Thus, the adapted training requirement applies to all pupils and aims to ensure optimal benefits from the training. This is a central principle of the Training Act – ensuring equal opportunities and equal opportunities for all students. In addition to the clear expectations of the student’s learning outcomes in the curriculum, mandatory reading and billing screening tests shall help to identify students below a level of concern. The tests have been specifically developed to identify those students who need special follow-up and organisation, and the aim is for all students to go to dyslexic and dyscal schools. Regardless of the legal requirements of Stortingen, the regulations of the government and the circular from Udir, we are unfortunately not guaranteed this. I would therefore like to stress in this case the important task of the county officials through their supervisory responsibilities, where they will ensure that all school owners comply with the training law’s requirements for in-flight assessment for adapted training, special education and ensure good education for the students, the aim of which is to follow a ‘best practice’. I also want to commend Dyslexi Norway for the job they do to school owners around the municipality of Norway. In my own hometown, Tromsø, for example, it has. close cooperation between them and the municipality, which has helped us to have dyslexia and dyscal schools. It is also important to point out that technical compliance alone does not necessarily entail a change in practice or a better training benefit for each student. Continuing education, school management and teacher training must increasingly provide teachers with the best didactics for responding to the challenges of reading and writing difficulties, but especially for those with dyslexia and dyscalculia. This is how we ensure a permanent system and cultural change in school organisations for the benefit of students' learning outcomes. In the government's efforts to develop a new five-year master-level primary school teacher education, it will be particularly important that the candidates from the new level of education at steps 1 to 7. become experts at initial reading, writing and billing training. It is therefore very positive that the government has stated that this will be made clear in the new framework plan. It is also important that the government's strong commitment to the VET programme is followed up with relevant continuing training courses that provide teachers with the necessary resources to provide better adapted training for dyslexia, dyscalculia and reading and writing difficulties. In this context, it is important to point out that students with dyslexia have specific challenges with foreign languages. As a result, early efforts and good follow-up to this student group will have a major impact on higher mastering skills in foreign languages as well. The government is also developing a new national strategy for language, reading and writing in kindergartens and initial training in the period 2016–2019. The right is very satisfied that kindergartens are included for the first time in such a strategy. The aim of the development of skills is to ensure that all teachers in kindergarten and school will have increased knowledge of how to best organise work with children and students who have difficulty in language, reading and writing, and how to identify these children and students as early as possible. Particular importance is also attached to increased competence in general measures to adapt education so that ordinary educational situations are adapted to students with established difficulties. The right will also highlight the crucial importance of early intervention for a child’s development and the need for language focus to be a central part of the day-to-day life of kindergarten. Knowledge that children with low vocabulary and a limited language are at greater risk of becoming weak readers and printers in the long term suggests that measures must be followed closely. It is important that children in the risk zone of language difficulties are identified early and that they are followed up and integrated closely into the pedagogical services of the kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e603	This is actually a debate we shouldn't have had, because dyslexia is something we've known about for well over a hundred years. Dyskalkuli is probably less known and has not been researched in the vicinity of so many years. But that we have learning difficulties in school is not a new phenomenon at all. Dyslexia and dyscalculia are so extensive that it is approx. 5 pst. by students in Norwegian school who have one of the two learning disabilities. This means that in all classes, in all schools throughout Norway, there are these kinds of students. It's the most common disability in the Western world when it comes to school, and the question is whether we take it seriously enough. In brackets, dyslexia does not exist in China. That's because of the way they write it. That's the way we put letters and concepts, which makes it difficult for that type of student. There's an anecdote, in and out, in this context. Under the law, there is no doubt that these children should have adapted their training. The law has taken this firm for very, very many years. Nevertheless, it is not rare for us — we meet many students since we are in the committee we do — to meet students who have fallen away and who feel that action is being taken at secondary school level. Only then will it be discovered that the student has dyslexia – and that with today’s legislation! It must be a great cross of thought for us that, with the law, which is our most important instrument, we are not able to get into the classroom. What's the reason for this? It's probably also because those who work with the children of daily, the teachers, are not able to diagnose or figure out who it is who has these learning difficulties, and what to do, right away. A lot of children and families feel that the school is not going as well as they expected – something is going to make it harder than you thought. So the investigation circle and the round dance begin in the system. At the same time, the days, weeks and months go by, and too many people don't do anything in the classroom. I think it's extremely important that this topic is given a central place when we're going to go through the teacher's training and look at them. There is no doubt that all those who are now going to teach with increased skills must be able to do much about these two things — both dyslexia and dyscalculia — when they are going to work as teachers at school. Because they're going to meet students who have these learning difficulties, and they're going to have classes where it's the kind of students. Something that's different now than when they discovered this well over a hundred years ago, is that we have a new technology that can help in a completely different way than before. The revolution in ICT can be of great benefit to these students. There are software, there are technological aids that can address many of the challenges that students face here. What's worrying is that these aren't going to be used. It is comforting to hear that we are struggling with the audio books that Statped has – that that system is barely used, and that it is very difficult and crooked to use for the schools at a time when streaming is actually about, and not sending packages of audio books around with the mail. There is one thing that we can do quickly, and I want to address the Council of State that he looks at very concretely. We have also taken that up when we have had a budgetary hearing. There are many good comments in the position that we agree with, and the representative Kent Gudmundsen has explained the position of the Right and the position. There's a broad consensus on this. Again, it is a bit like the previous case – that the setting should have been unanimous. We should say that we should not have schools that are not dyslexic and dyscal. We should have schools that meet the criteria that the Dyslexia Association has, and certify the schools, so that we have a set of criteria that ensure that all children, wherever they live, are always met with help if they have these learning difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e618	The President expects that a minority proposal was included indirectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e621	I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e626	The representative, Marianne Aasen, then mentioned the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e629	All schools in Norway should be dyslexia and dyscalative – there should be no doubt about that. It is clearly stated in the Training Act. All school owners are required to provide appropriate training for all student groups. Mandatory reading and billing screening tests shall also contribute to the identification of students below a level of concern. The tests have been specifically developed to identify those students who need special follow-up and organisation. The main challenge in Norwegian school today is that learning outcomes are too low in relation to resource use. Around one in six Norwegian 15-year-olds has so low reading skills that they cannot read properly. The problems are particularly great for minority children and for those who have difficulty reading and writing. Specific measures have therefore been put in place for, inter alia: these groups. New $20 million has been allocated. kr for read and write measures in the 2016 government budget. We know that the most important thing for students' learning is a good teacher. The Progress Party is therefore pleased with the Teacher Promise and that it is now systematically working to identify and disseminate good learning practices through further training. The Progress Party will point out that teacher training should increasingly provide teachers with the competence in teaching in the field of dyslexia and dyscalculia. In particular, it is important that the candidates from the new training at steps 1 to 7. acquires good competence in initial reading, writing and billing training. The aim must be that all teachers can help children and students to go to dyslexic and dyscal schools, so that more students will be able to complete their basic education in the best possible way. The Progress Party will further refer to the development of a new national strategy for language, reading and writing in kindergarten and initial training in the 2016–2019 period, with which the government is currently working. Competence development measures in the strategy must aim to ensure that all teachers in kindergartens and schools are provided with increased knowledge of how best to organise work with children and students with language problems, reading and writing. Particular attention needs to be paid to early intervention, which is essential for the development of a child. Children in the risk zone of language difficulties must be identified as early as possible and must be followed up and closely integrated into the pedagogical services of the nursery. The Progress Party will also refer to the Government’s strategy «Fixed in real science» for 2015–2019, where the aim is to mobilise, raise awareness and commit those who are most densely tested on children and young people. Nor should we forget the importance of new technology as a tool in both kindergarten and school. The re-introduction of support for computer equipment for students with reading and writing difficulties from the autumn of 2014 is an important contribution in this context. In recent years, the Edtech industry has increasingly contributed to products that are good aids, especially for students with difficulty in reading, writing and calculating. The Progress Party will therefore underline the importance of further work by the government to facilitate access for school owners, school leaders and teachers to the entire toolbox with tools to provide students with good basic skills. I would also like to remind you here of the responsibility of the school owners. The government has increased the free resources of municipalities, and it is therefore important to give local priority to schools and to provide them with the means to provide all with appropriate training under the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e652	Dyslexia and dyscalculia are quite difficult words, but having reading, writing or math skills is more familiar. It is also not as taboo as it has been before, but I know that it is still difficult for many, and not least it is made very visible when it comes to social media. The fact that it is no longer so taboo is due to the fact that more people have been able to cope with their problems. In that context, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for having stood up to his challenge of reading and writing difficulties. So these challenges can be carried out. You can be Prime Minister even if you don't have perfect spelling. That is, you should be aware that that is how it is, and that means that your school or your parents should be aware of what you're struggling with. Otherwise you should have a pretty good mental health. It does not help to be good at the school verbally and get only wrong in writing if the student has not been told what he is struggling with. Then you must have a strong psyche. The same thing applies to mathematics. If the student does not get help to see what he is struggling with, it is unfortunately not certain that he can become the best version of his sea – what he dreamed of. As the proposers write, kids learn different ways. Adapted training is a well-informed concept, but different things are included in the concept. Nevertheless, I believe that most teachers are concerned about having enough time to follow up on each individual student and to facilitate the individual student's benefit from what is to be communicated. We see that there is a slight decrease in the number of students who receive special education, and it's very good if it means that one reduces the need for special education because one intervenes earlier. We should be concerned about helping as quickly as the challenges emerge. Special education must also be an offer that can be made if you receive sufficient assistance in time. Strives one with dyslexia or dyscalculia, it becomes essential to have sufficient resources for follow-up. The proposers refer to Dyslexi Norway, which has been working for 10 years to certify schools to dyslexic schools. These are schools they think meet some special criteria. These 22 schools have good systems for monitoring and implementing interventions. Schools are also concerned with further developing their competence on the theme, on teaching methods, on aids, psychosocial work, etc. This is very good to hear, but it's just so sad that there are no more schools that have the same approach and that have got this certification. Today, many parents experience striving to reach out for the help they feel their child needs. Ordinary screening tests are a first aid, but if you're wondering if there's anything else, you have to go to work more specifically. This is where I think a lot of people feel that time is going on as the problems grow. The size decided in the previous period that schools are obliged to make early efforts, and they no longer have the opportunity to wait with investigations until the PP service comes. They shall do what they can before the special service is connected. I record that the system still has some flaws, sail if many schools have become good. There is clearly a need for further training within these themes in order for the entire college of teachers to be equipped to meet the challenges of the students. Math questions and reading and writing difficulties should therefore have been a good priority in continuing training. The previous government put forward read strategies and mathematical strategies that this government has continued, and I think that's very good. Once the challenges have been identified and the action phase is under way, it is important that there is also a means to make use of them. I have heard stories that the sails of the students are diagnosed with reading difficulties, the audiobooks do not come to the school until far out in the fall, and that is unacceptable as long as the school is aware of the problems. This is something the government needs to take on to fulfil the students' rights. Technologically, there should be no hocuspocus to be able to organize for the students who struggle with either numbers or letters, as the representative Aasen said. The school shall provide all students with opportunities to develop in line with their abilities. It's incredibly important that problems with reading, writing or mathematics are addressed early. Reading is a basic skill. It is important that tests and tests do not have a one-sided focus on achieving a certain level in relation to other schools. It is a fallit if the students are encouraged to be at home or not to take the tests. There are just screening tests to help students to progress. These are not fantasies, but there is a real problem in some schools, and this the Council of State must also put an end to and clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e673	We've heard more people talk about the practical problems they experience with dyslexia and dyscalculia in everyday life. I think there are two things that are absolutely essential when we're talking about dyslexia, specific language difficulties, dyscalculia, etc. It's that there's someone who discovers what kind of challenges you have, and that it happens early. And early – it may be too late in school. When we talk about early work, it could be the nursery we're talking about. But whether we're talking about kindergarten or school, it's a cross-section of mind that we in kindergarten have so many unskilled people at work, or that in school we have 9 000 non-qualified teachers – because it's those who meet the students and children every day, who are the closest to seeing what kind of challenges they have, and who are the closest to helping them with the challenges they have. Then we have to have competent adults both in kindergarten and in school who can discover the challenges that children have. Several have been involved in teacher training and how important it is that teachers who are going to school know how to detect such challenges, because there are many students who have it, and there are many students who experience it for a long time without it being discovered. Then, of course, we have to do something about the practical challenges that many people have faced, because when you find out what kind of challenges you have, and what can help, kids still experience waiting for weeks and months to get the help they need. I mean, and the left believes that adapted training and having dyscalculi- and dyslexic schools is something all students should experience. All students in school will experience the help they need with the challenges they face, but we have significant challenges in achieving the goal we have set ourselves, for the level we believe the school will have. There's not just one set of tools – we have to work in width here. But at least I want to point out specifically the adults and the competences we have in both kindergarten and school, and how important it is to help those students who need help with these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e684	The majority often discuss dropouts in school. We're discussing unemployment, and we're discussing mental health. Now we're discussing one thing that's absolutely fundamental to solving, to solve some of the other problems we have. Some of us stand here without script, largely systematic, and are a daily challenge for the referees, but it's not that all of us who have this problem have other learning difficulties. Unfortunately, not everyone gets through the school without too much wounds to the sea urchin, as it is today, and as it was before. I'm glad that now it seems that there is a broad consensus that all schools should be dyscalculi- and dyslexic. But I'm very surprised that there's no majority to set a target for this and create a timetable, because it's urgent – we don't have any more kids and young people «tossing away». All schools must have a continuous systematic work on this. All teachers must have competence in this. New teachers are good, but it must also be for older teachers to have the skills to do so. It can't be electoral science to be able to teach kids what any six-year-old knows: when you start school, what are you going to do? Well, you're going to learn to read and write. Well, then you have to be able to. This is when you also have to map – as others have said – but then you have to be good at it. And you must not misuse the screening tests – as has been done in many places – by ranking and not helping or revealing. Once you have done so, you need to be able to put in place measures. But it's not just about special education – it's about it too – but about using methods that can work well for many with these types of learning difficulties, but that can also be very good methods for everyone. Not all of these students may need to be taken out for special education all the time. Many times the methods used for pupils with different types of dyslexia or dyscalculia can be very good teaching methods, which can be applied to all. So it has to work systematically with the methods that are dyslexia and dyscal, which can be good methods to use. I'm very much in favour of there being a great deal of freedom of method in school, but there can't be freedom from the methods that work against these students. Then it's also the way – as many people have been about – that there are problems with the learning material and the available curriculum for many of these students. I now encourage the Council of State to ensure that it has to be notified back about what is being borrowed, and that you remove fees. The Council of States can do that. I have been told that it has been done. It is not, I have received feedback about it. This can't cost any more, and it has to be used, as far as we know it's needed. There are, of course, new digital tools that can be developed and that need to be used. I hope that today's unanimity for all schools to achieve these goals does not mean that you should kind of sneak forward, as you've done for now. I mean it, sail if I have also been in a position where we had a joint responsibility for this. I hope we can now put it behind us and say that we have to do this, we have to make a timetable to implement all the measures that everyone says are necessary to get this in place. A lot of these measures work very well. There are very different forms of reading and writing difficulties and different forms of dyscalculia, from cognitive problems and pure vision problems to different types of learning difficulties. Some of them can be largely canceled, but not completely. What we've been talking about now is mostly about primary school. I've been working on this theme up the system for many years. The higher the system you get, the worse it is for those who have problems with this and have not received good help, and who want to go up in the education system. The more you approach academia, the greater the prejudices are against people with difficulty in reading, because you think that these really don't belong at that level. So there are many parts of this field where you still have a long way to go before you ensure equal education for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e702	Let me first say thank you for a good debate. It is the case, as some have pointed out, that all schools in Norway are required to provide adapted training. It is a basic principle in Norwegian school, enshrined in the Training Act. This means that the school needs to use the competence at school to lead learning processes, based on the assumptions and abilities of the student. Adapted training thus also means that schools should be dyslexic and dyscal, simply because all students have the right to receive training that enables them to learn what to do. Representatives point out in their proposal that this requires teachers to have a rich toolbox and that more systematic work is needed to enable all schools and teachers to have competence, methods, systematics and resources to become dyslexic and dyscal. I agree with that, and that is also in line with the recordings we got from, among other things. students, teachers and researchers when about a year ago the government organized a summit on reading and writing difficulties. Here we also got examples of how this work is going on and worked well in several schools and municipalities. In order to ensure adapted training for all, teachers need to have the necessary skills to detect students who have difficulty reading, writing and billing, and how best to address the difficulties and facilitate a good learning outcomes. By means of mandatory screening tests in reading and billing, specially developed to detect those students who need special follow-up and organisation, teachers already have good tools to detect those students who are struggling because of dyslexia and/or dyscalculia. And it also has to be said that this is in addition to maybe the most important thing, that the teacher is present in the classroom and sees the students every single day. Here it is also worth recalling that in the major discussion on monitoring and testing, both in kindergarten and school, it is worth noting that one of the most powerful supporters of better monitoring practices — and also systematic monitoring, both in kindergarten and school — is precisely Dysleksi Norway, because they believe it is so crucial to discover these children early, and even at all, already in kindergarten. In the proposal for the framework plan for the next five-year comprehensive school teacher training for 1–7. steps and 5 to 10. stages, which are currently at the consultation stage, competence related to initial training is highlighted. Adapted training and work on the basic skills and competences of pupils is important, and emphasis is placed on the ability of teachers to choose initial training as a professional depression when writing master’s degree, which must then be close in the sector and practice area, as it is called. We have also implemented different strategies to ensure that today's teachers also have the necessary skills. I see that the committee also mentions several of them. The continuing training strategy is important, but also specific, targeted initiatives. Let me mention two: through a national strategy for language, reading and writing, Language bishops, resources are now being spent on resource teachers and local networks for kindergartens and schools to work more systematically with just reading, writing and language challenges. It is also working to develop several packages of expertise specifically targeting children and students with reading and writing difficulties, and they will be ready for school start in the autumn of 2016. Reading centres and writing centres cooperating on the content of the strategy also benefit from cooperation with Dyslexi Norway. The new real science strategy The focus of the real science strategy is on mobilising, raising awareness and obliging children and young people, i.e. school owners, teachers, managers and other employees in kindergartens and schools. One of the main approaches is to help students who are struggling, for example: math, is identified and followed up by effective action. At the same time, the government has reintroduced support for computer equipment for students with reading and writing difficulties from the autumn of 2014, which was previously cut, and we have also reduced the fees associated with organized learning materials, such as audiobooks developed and disseminated by Statped, i.e. a reduction in the performance requirement for Statped – the red-green government did so, and it has also been done now. Then the representative asked me to check if it has led to lower fees, and of course I should follow up on that. We need to have a school that sees the needs of each student, as ability to organize in the best possible way. I believe that the best and most effective way to achieve this is to focus both on raising skills in well-adapted training in general, while at the same time implementing targeted actions — efforts and skills enhancements linked to specific groups. Through the screening tests, we have a system to detect and detect. We need to strengthen the learning outcomes requirements in this area in basic training for teachers; we need to focus more on empowerment. We're doing it, we're doing it, but we're still not in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e728	As state councillor Røe Isaksen mentioned in his post, there is also a lot of good going on around. Statped has tools available, and many students with these learning difficulties receive good help. What we're talking about now is how to make sure that everyone gets good help. What the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV now propose is that we have to have a timetable and an implementation plan for how to get all schools organized for people with learning difficulties. I'm just wondering why the Right Party and their cooperation parties are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e737	Now there is also money — it is correctly applied for, but money is given — to Dysleksi Norway at regular intervals, among others. to carry out this important work. So this is like in other things where you agree on the goal, agree on the intentions, that the question is how to best follow up. We believe that the best way to follow up is through the strategies we have. Then we share a goal that more schools should also be able to be certified in the specific scheme that is now here, but we believe that the main political follow-up from the majority of the population and from the department is just to work with the kind of trade unions and skills-enhancing initiatives that we, among other things, are. through the language and real-time training activities. In its statement, Mr Aasen referred to audiobooks and streaming. That's what I thought was a very good point, and I'm also going to check it. If, for example, the representative: ask a written question, she can also get a clearer answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e744	Dyskalkuli and dyslexia are something that is at the intersection of the teacher's professional competence, educational and pedagogical competence, and the special field of education. So we know that there is now a major commitment to continuing training for the enhancement of teachers' skills, and the Council of State referred to the new primary school teacher training. My question to the Council of State will be: Is continuing education related to reading and writing difficulties and math skills part of today's continuing training offer in Norwegian and mathematics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e749	There are several further training courses that focus on targeted reading, writing and calculation training, especially for the youngest children. Then I can't say on the stand how much of the further training offers are about children who are struggling with dyslexia or dyscalculia. But it's quite natural that when you want to re-train to teach kids how to crack the math code and the read code, you're paying extra attention to the children who need extra help.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e754	Initial reading and writing training is incredibly important, and there may be a lot of teachers who already have that competence in their general teacher training, sail if they don't have enough study credits. I also mentioned another thing in my post that went on screening tests. We've heard, and we know, some students have been encouraged not to come to school when they have screening tests. Screening tests have also been carried out in advance. It's a misunderstanding, I think. The screening tests shall just reveal this type of difficulty. I wonder if the Council of State can give a clear and clear signal to all schools in Norway that we should not have such practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e761	The screening samples are different from the national samples. The national tests will publish the results. We don't do that in the screening tests. They are basically a tool for the school, as the representative says, to find – as a rule of thumb – the 20 pst. by the extra-wearing students. It is not the case that screening tests should be carried out. The Education Directorate has done some exercises to make the students familiar with the test form. It's not that you're unfamiliar with the test form that makes you get the results you get, but what students can do, the skill level. It's a clear signal. It is not a goal with the screening tests that you should get fewer who are in the category “need extra help” if it is not a result of the school working very well. There's a clear signal that asking students to stay away is not okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e766	I think, unfortunately, that's how we're not going to achieve these goals if we don't set a timetable. I have worked and talked a lot about this in at least the last 20-30 years with great commitment, without any major breakthrough. That is why we believe that we need a timetable to get this done. I don't think the Council of States is responding very well to why in this area you don't need a timetable in order to have something to measure against. Otherwise this government likes to measure some things, but here you don't have to measure. Then I think you just never get into the goal and will never be able to prove what it takes to have the quality that needs to be there to choose general methods, but also give specific help to the students who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e771	In this area, too, I think we might need clearer targets. I believe that with regard to the overall objectives of the education sector in Norway, it should be possible, in principle, to say something if things go better or worse. Then they must be quantifiable. However, the question in this specific proposal for a representative is linked to one project that Dysleksi Norway has, which is very good, and which I fully support. I think it's important that more schools also have the ambition to be certified. And then my answer is that it's the other means we have, which I think is most important. Let me just give you one example: we are now working a lot, correctly in a committee other than the Education Committee, unfortunately, with better and more systematic monitoring in kindergartens. It's controversial in many people. Who is that among the strongest followers of it? It's precisely Dyslexi Norway. Now they probably don't think that all children should be automatically monitored at a certain time, but they're concerned that there should be better screening and more knowledge into kindergarten to discover these children early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e778	I agree with that. I've been working in kindergarten for 18 years, and we got it done – everyone learned to read and write there, and you can early see who needs this help. So that's no problem. The problem here is that you don't work systematically enough. I also noticed that the Council of State when he now mentioned the requirements of the new teacher training, put it this way: You can choose professional immersion in this in your master's degree project. It's precisely our point that this cannot be an electoral science. Can the Council of State now assure that the complete basic knowledge that must exist if we are to solve this is present with all those who will meet the children when they arrive at school? It has to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e786	All teachers who go to Norwegian school also need tools to understand what both dyslexia and dyscalculia are, to identify it and to know how to follow it up. But that doesn't mean that everyone can be experts on it. It is where I believe that it is important both through teacher training and the continuing education system that we also say that some teachers can do more about this, for example. by taking initial reading and writing training courses for the youngest. But that all teachers in school must have knowledge of the characteristics of students who have dyslexia and dyscalculia, I think it's obvious, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e791	You have to measure and weigh, and it's supposed to change a lot. I want to ask the Council of State for a perspective that I have pondered, because of my own reading difficulties. I was so lucky that I never got a label on it in my high school career, and I didn't go around thinking anything else than that Trine had some problems seeing the difference between b and d at the beginning of the reading and a little bit other simple problems. But it didn't have a characteristic or a diagnosis. I think it's helped many people in my generation not to get a diagnosis, not to get a label that you were different from others. You just had one problem, and that problem had to be solved. Then you have to have good teachers who see the problem and have a strategy on how to solve it. But don't we make a school now that hunts very hard to put labels and diagnoses on children, which can occasionally be as stigmatizing as it can be problem-solving?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e796	It's a very big question to answer in 1 minute. Firstly, it must not and should not be stigmatizing to get a type of diagnosis. I think just the openness that has been around it, makes us no longer believe or think or people claim, at least not upward, common people, that those who have dyscalculi or dyslexia somehow stand back for the others in terms of skills or intelligence or something like that. It's very important. So it's absolutely right that yes, our school system is also set up so that there's often a diagnosis that triggers certain rights. Obviously you could imagine a situation where you did not get the diagnosis, but then the school worked so well that you got the follow-up you needed, and then everything went well. Experience in the past has shown that the fact that people have not been able to systematically monitor, that they have not been able to discover and put a name for it and take action has caused people to cope with these problems for many years in Norwegian school without having been discovered, almost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e805	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e810	I would like to thank you for a good debate so far on this matter. I notice that several of the representatives, and in particular the representative Karin Andersen, have been impatient, and I can assure you that there are also the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party in this matter, and that is perhaps precisely why we now have very high pressure and commitment to «Quality Competence». As several representatives have been up here on the pulpit and pointed out, one of the goals we need is if we're to create a good school that really sees, tackles and addresses students who have difficulty reading and writing, and perhaps, in particular, dyslexia and dyscalculia, to have teachers with a high level of competence. Then it's reassuring that those who are out to have schedules may not be the ones who are the strongest proponents to make sure that we have a school with teachers who have depression in their subjects. This can be done, for example. from the SSB’s 2014 survey that it was not the case that one in seven teachers had a few study credits within Norway. No, they had no study score in Norwegian. The same thing with mathematics: one in five teachers lacked complete math scores and still taught math. Of course, you can think about whether this leads to a good follow-up of those students who may have challenges in childhood, especially in dyslexia and dyscalculia. So I'm pretty sure that the follow-up from the government now – systematically through different plans such as it alerted the national strategy for language, reading and writing, along with the other one I didn't mention, the strategy «Density in Real Science», where the goal is to mobilise, raise awareness and commit those who are densely tested on children and young people, i.e. school owners, teachers and managers and other employees in kindergartens and schools – helps to identify students who are also striving in mathematics at the earliest possible time, so that they can be followed up with effective measures. The representative of the Aasen also pointed to EdTech teaching. I would also like to point that out, because I fully agree that new technologies and new tools both in kindergarten and in school can help to address this particular issue, and it is not without reason that the government reintroduced support for computer equipment for students with reading and writing difficulties in the autumn of 2014, after it had been removed by the red-green government. Together with continuing training, along with strategies and with EdTech learning and others who are contributing positively in the sector, I am quite sure that we are helping to strengthen the whole range of the toolbox in the work to ensure the students good, basic skills and a passed basic education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e819	I just want to make a brief comment on the line change between the representative Andersen and the Council of State. The Committee places the emphasis on the need for the challenges of dyslexia and dyscalculia to be central to the work on the new five-year primary school teacher training. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the Council of State highlights the freedom of choice in this area today, and underlines the need for knowledge and insight into the issues of dyslexia and dyscalculia not to be optional in future teacher training, but something that everyone who is going to teach children to read and write needs to know well. Something else would be very strange when all parties are so concerned about early efforts, as everyone says they are, and the government itself repeatedly emphasizes that it is the competence within basic skills that counts the most for this government. Then we have to get out of a situation where something so basic to reading and writing training is an optional theme in teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e824	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e838	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e845	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the proposers for giving us the opportunity to discuss camp schools in Stortinget. Over five decades, over 2 million children have been taught and lasting memories from camp schools in the mountains, in the woods and along the coast. A stay in camp school is important, not only because it gives students new knowledge and unique experience, but also because it contributes positively to the student environment and the social skills of the students. There is a different classroom, with different input to knowledge and learning — an offer that gives students a more comprehensive school. There is an overall committee that is concerned that the camp schools should be good educational offers that it is important for students to be able to participate in. The first paragraph of Section 2-3 of the Training Act states that part of the teaching time in primary school can be used for camp school education. The GSI numbers show that 9.4 pst. by primary school students, they planned to go to camp last school year. As primary school consists of ten years of schooling, this may indicate that most people are offered a camp school stay during their schooling. In spite of this, the Committee has been informed, inter alia: through Norwegian Leirskoleforening figures, that the tendency to send students to camp is decreasing, and that municipalities contribute to the financing of camp schooling to a very different extent. The financing of camp school accommodation has changed over time. Until 2002, clay school stays were financed by earmarked grants to municipalities. Thereafter, it became part of the ordinary framework grant. But there is still a small part of camp schooling that is funded by the state budget, among other things. wages and salaries paid to host municipalities which have teachers employed at the camp schools. The principle of free time is a central principle in Norwegian school — a principle that is often updated and discussed in the context of school trips or camp school stays. Many schools and parent groups hesitate to arrange trips – you want everyone to have the opportunity to participate. The Committee notes that the Ministry has followed up the request decision of December 2014 to review the exercise of the free principle in camper school stays. But at the same time, I would like to stress in particular that there is an overall committee that believes that there needs to be provision for predictability and clarity about the organisation and funding of the camp school offer, so that as many students as possible are offered a master's school stay during primary school. The Committee has been divided into a majority and a minority in this matter. The minority, consisting of the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, want a law-enforcement in some form, while the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, ask the government to investigate how, through the school's curricula, it can ensure that all students receive an offer for a camp school residency e.g. during primary school. The shades of this are likely to be highlighted by more people during the debate today. However, as the rapporteur of the case, I am pleased to say that there is an overall committee that believes that camp school is a valuable educational offer for primary school students – just as it is to say that there is an overall committee that wants to look at solutions that ensure that all students are offered a camp school stay or a overnight tour of several days during primary school. I would also like to put forward the proposal where the Committee asks the government to develop measures to help schools ensure the participation of minority students in overnight school trips. Finally, the Labour Party believes that camp school has an important place in the Norwegian education system. We think it is unfortunate that a minority of children in Norway who want to do so should not get the same experience of learning as the majority. We think it's unfortunate that a minority of schools that want it should not get the same benefits as a week at camp school for class environment, cohesion and social relations between students and between teachers and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e871	I think most of those who have been on a trip with good classmates are left with experiences for life. Both educational, inspiring and rewarding experiences have taught, and it is therefore not so nice that we have long and good traditions for camp school or similar overnight trips in the school's direction in Norway. Such experiences contribute positively to the student environment and the social skills of students. As the rapporteur points out, the overview shows that about 10 pst. of primary school students attend camp school or a longer overnight trip annually. With ten years of primary school, this suggests that most students receive an offer during primary school. At the same time, we have become aware that there have been sources of error in the data on which the overview is based, and the ministry has therefore launched a new electronic registration to ensure quality. This will provide a better knowledge base for the follow-up to the debate. As from the autumn of 2002, the framework grant to municipalities was increased so that municipalities would be able to cover all the costs of camp schooling or accommodation with similar learning. In addition, there is also a grant scheme administered by Fylkesen, which will stimulate municipalities to undertake overnight trips during school hours. These grants and transfers to the municipality shall enable the school owners to make a free offer in line with the Training Act. Therefore, all activities related to primary school education at the school level should be free of any excesses, as the Ministry of Knowledge has established by reviewing the practice of the free principle of camp attendance in Prop. 1 S for 2015–2016 for Stortinget. The county has a special responsibility to follow-up by the individual school owner and to provide guidance on legislation and supervision to ensure that the same practices are followed by all throughout the country. However, although municipalities receive a framework transfer and County does have grant schemes, it seems clear that some schools and municipalities do not offer students a camp school stay or similar overnight accommodation during primary school. Where individual municipalities regard this as a purely savings measure, other municipalities choose to prioritize other tours for the students, for example. visits to previous concentration camps in Poland and Germany. Although this is something other than camp school, the Right believes that such tours are also of great value and can fulfill some of the intentions behind the camp school offer, while at the same time offering a different knowledge and other experiences and experiences. At the same time, we are concerned that many students today do not receive any offer of camp school accommodation or alternative tours or arrangements. The right is therefore pleased with the broad majority of those who support the provision of overnight accommodation to all students, and clear expectations for each school owner must be expressed in the light of the fact that both framework transfers and grant schemes should enable municipalities to do so. However, the right-wing party believes that a legal right-holding is a wrong way to go; it is an instrument that should be used primarily when a legal protection is sought. It is a strong tool that we cannot use outside of Storting, and we are aware that there is no right instrument in this case. I would also like to point out that camp schools and overnight trips can contribute positively to integration. It is important that not individual groups are excluded when such trips are to be carried out at each school. There is therefore reason for concern when reporting that students with a minority background remain at home for reasons other than economics. Ultimately, it's the school's responsibility to find wise solutions to include everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e888	There are long and good traditions for camp schools in Norway. It provides students with new knowledge and unique experience and contributes positively to the student environment and the social skills of the students. In today’s Norway, another aspect has emerged, and that is the integration aspect. The Progress Party believes that clay school is a good instrument of integration and a good intercultural arena for the development of common sense of value and social competence. Traveling over several days with fellow students within a secure framework gives all students good challenges and mastery experiences. Film director Ulrik Imtiaz Rolfsen said the following at the government conference on dialogue between minorities and Norwegian society last October: ‘Teaching schools should become mandatory, gym should be for boys and girls together. There are such things the school must be strict on. This is only the case in Norway and it must be the case for everyone.’ The Progress Party is therefore concerned that there is a mismatch between the reporting figures from the Information System of Primary School and the Norwegian Leirskoleforenings own figures in terms of the number of students offered a camp-school stay. Many suggest that some schools and municipalities do not offer students a primary school stay, despite the fact that the municipalities receive grants. The fact that many students today receive neither offer of camp school accommodation nor alternative tours or arrangements is not acceptable. The Progress Party believes that greater clarity needs to be created about the organisation and funding of the camp school offer, so that as many students as possible are offered camp school accommodation during primary school. In this context, the Progress Party will also underline the free principle, which is to ensure that all children have equal opportunities to participate in all primary school activities, regardless of their parents’ finances. It is clear from the legislation that the municipality cannot require the pupils or parents to cover the costs of primary schooling, including costs of primary schooling. The Training Act does not preclude schools from receiving various forms of support through hard work, etc. The Progress Party will encourage the government to go through the practice of the free principle in order to ensure this offer in a good way. The Progress Party will also remind you that some municipalities choose to prioritize other types of tours for students, for example. trips to concentration camps in Poland and Germany. This is something other than camp school, but the Progress Party believes that such tours too are of great value and can fulfill the main intentions behind the camp school offer, while offering other knowledge, experiences and experiences. As a local politician, I have fought for the camp school system on several occasions, with interpellations and alternative budget proposals. This has been beneficial, and with political will and the ability to prioritise this can be achieved. It is about seeing the possibilities of alternative learning venues outside the traditional classroom and teaching room and giving students the opportunity to further develop mastering, social skills and cooperation skills. It's nice to see the expectations in the eyes of young people when they're finished packed and ready to go to camp school. Such a camp schooling often gives good memories for the rest of your life. A majority of the Committee, including the Advance Party, considers that the Grand Duchy's wish to offer accommodation to all students can be assessed through stronger leadership in curricula, as government leadership of school content is normally provided. We believe that a law-based right-of-rights attachment is a strong instrument that is primarily intended to provide legal protection and is not the right instrument in this case. The Progress Party and the rest of the Committee will ask the Ministry, in consultation with the relevant stakeholder organisations, to examine measures that can help to ensure that as many municipalities as possible have the possibility of prioritising their pupils' schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e915	Camp school is a good and valuable educational offer. It's an enrichment for a student both to look forward to it and to carry it in their luggage. There's a positive injection, literally, in the student community. A camp-school stay gives students new experiences, good natural experiences and helps to strengthen the individual’s social skills. For very many, the camp week becomes a few days they never forget and a memory of life, where they like to get acquainted with classmates and friends in a new and different way. The Christian People's Party wants all children to have such an experience during primary school. We therefore look with concern at the fact that some schools and municipalities do not provide students with a camp school offer, even if the municipalities receive grants to do so. For some municipalities, this is a purely savings measure, but it is also schools that prioritise other tours for the students, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, can be good alternatives. An example is visits to former concentration camps in Poland and Germany. This is another common camp school, but it fulfills several of the intentions of the camp school offer, while at the same time offering a different kind of knowledge, experience and experience, putting things into a historical context and showing responsibility for political matters in our day. Christian People's Party believes that all children can benefit from a camp school stay or something. within safe frameworks and with a good pedagogical structure. It is noted that some parents from families with a minority background choose to keep their children at home from such trips. It's creepy, not least because the camp school can be a good venue for building down prejudices, preventing xenophobia and contributing to good integration. The school has a responsibility to engage in dialogue with these families, clear misunderstandings and encourage participation. The Christian People's Party shares the commitment of the proposers to the camp school and agrees that consideration should be given to the possibility of legislating such an offer. At the same time, we want these alternative offers to be ensured in the same way. That is why the Christian People's Party is promoting the following alternative proposals here today: ‘The government asks the government to propose that all students have a statutory right to offer a camp-school stay during primary school, or another overnight trip of several days and with a pedagogical approach in line with school curricula’s objectives of competence.’ If it were not to have a majority, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the majority proposal that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e931	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e934	We have just had a matter of how we can help improve the mental health of children and young people. I think we should remember that even when we are now going to deal with this matter. Most adults who have been to camp school, remember the stay seagoing if there are many, many years ago. I remember a lot of good things from when I was at the Spiterstulen for over 30 years ago. I remember that we learned first aid, and I later needed some of that knowledge. I remember how we learned about mountains, snow, fire, maps and compasses. And not least, I remember the community with the classmates -- how we got to know each other in a new and more intense way than through normal school days. We linked friendship bonds that last that day today. At camp school, students come from different parts of the country. Students may have different backgrounds, cultural and ethnic. Teachers and students live closer together this week. They're together 24 hours a day, in a good social environment where a sheep used other aspects of a sail, know about mastery feelings and experiences you haven't had before. In this sense, a camp-school stay can help achieve professional learning goals, but it can also be a part of strengthening the learning environment itself and preventing poor mental health. The first paragraph of Section 2-3 of the Training Act states that part of the teaching period can be used for camp school training. This means staying at a manned camp school or other activity with a duration of at least three consecutive nights. There is no earmarked grant for camp school stays today. There is a partial funding within the framework grant, but it is neither sufficient nor used for that purpose in all municipalities. The teachers who are employed at the camp school itself are employed in the municipality where the camp school is and are financed from the state budget. In addition, the municipality or the state has no obligation to cover the student's accommodation and travel expenses. I record that the government makes a point that most of the students are offered a camp-school stay during primary school. We do not dispute this, but we have also registered that the camp school offer has been phased out in some municipalities in recent years. This is often due to poor municipal economy and that camp school is not a statutory task and therefore has to give way – to great disappointment for students who have been looking forward to going to camp school for many years. But this is just part of the problem of today's system, for the shipping if the schools add up to camp school for their students, then the funding of this is left to the parents. As I said, the municipalities receive only a small grant. The costs of both stay, travel and — in some cases — even overtime payments for teachers coming from their own school are invoiced to the parent group. It is parental funding for this part of education that is currently keeping alive in the camp school tradition. According to the Training Act, it is not permitted to require any kind of proportion of pupils/parents for education — nor a camp-school stay. But it's okay to accept so-called gifts. We believe it is good for students to participate in the funding, but it challenges the principle of free school when the entire camp's accommodation is to be financed by self-payment, covered as gifts. There is broad agreement that camp school is a valuable school week for the students. We believe it should be an offer for everyone, and that it should not be up to the municipalities to give away such a valuable offer to the students because of poor local economy. Today’s practice shows that there is a misunderstanding between the leadership of the education authorities and the individual school for participation in camp schools and the financing of the scheme. We therefore also believe that the majority's proposal is too weak in a goal-driven curriculum and with freedom of method in school. Added to the curriculum, parents still pay. I am therefore disappointed that the majority, including the three largest political parties, will not help to legislate for a right to camp school stays. So we can't see that the majority's proposal for changes in curricula will meet this challenge, but we will vote in a subsidiary way for it, because we think it's better than nothing to get a review. In the end, I recall that we in the Center Party have spent money in our alternative budget in order to be able to legislate for the camp school offer. I hope the other parties arrive at the same conclusion afterwards – sail if it will take a few years. I am referring to the proposal that the Central Party, together with the Socialist Left, has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e964	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has thus taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e967	I am pleased that the whole Stortinget is behind the importance of the offer that camp schools and other overnight trips are for young people. I would like to make a small comment on what the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien was in at the very end. There's two ways to do this: you can either go for a law that the Center Party has called for, or you can do it through regulations or curricula. In the left we think that's the right way to go, because that's how we usually give leadership to the schools and the school owners, while lawmaking is an even stronger tool, which we use exceptionally. The important thing is that we go one step further, that there is a broad majority where the whole Biggest stands behind the importance of this, and that we go in the right direction. What's good about camp schools is the educational offer that the students get. It gives the students a completely different master arena than what the classroom and everyday life is, and it gives them a different class dynamics. Most of us may have been in camp school. I think we have a little bit of different experiences and remember a little bit of different things from when we were in camp school, but most people remember it and have a positive memory of it. I've been visiting camp schools myself, and I see that something has happened since I was there, but they put great emphasis on creating a class dynamics where those who don't master the theoretical school life get a completely different type of mastery feeling and a completely different arena to claim. They tell us how different it is from a class to it goes, what the students tell them, and how the students feel to have a day-to-day school outside the classroom. What has been important for the Left in this matter is that we must include those groups that unfortunately too often fall outside such offers. Clearly, it should be voluntary – we cannot oblige people to spend the night away – but we must facilitate and address those groups that often fall outside. This is especially true of minority students, and that's why I'm glad that the Storting points to it, because there's a group that has great joy and benefit from such an offer, because it gives other experiences, other arenas and a completely different challenge than a regular school day does. We have a long tradition for camp schools, and they offer us a very good offer. There's a lot of camp schools for the municipalities already, because they're there, we have a lot of experience with them, the schools have used them for a long time, and it's easy to take advantage of that offer. But I also want to highlight that there are other types of offers that can fill some of the same purpose, that can give some of the same type of mastering feeling, that can give another learning venue, that gives some of the same positive class dynamics. It's also been important to us that we not only focus on camp schools, but that camp schools will of course be the biggest actor and would like to be the preferred and most natural actor in this area. But – which has been mentioned before – White buses are a good alternative. You can also imagine that the schools are making their own arrangement that meets their needs. The important thing in this case is that we get a step further. We are clear that we see the value of the offer offered by the camp schools, and we want it to be an offer that all students will be able to participate in. Then the government gets back to the Storting with how we can do it the best possible way through the curricula.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e983	I had camp school stays at Tierkolbotn Leirskole in North Hordland in the sixth grade, and I remember both canoeing and meeting with other kids from other schools, and all we did there is the nail as a pretty important memory from my school, despite the fact that it was only one week. That's how I think there are too many people, and the motivation behind the proposal we're dealing with is a desire for all students in Norwegian school to have such an opportunity. I think that the parental effort, which today largely keeps the camp offer going, shows that this is something that is greatly appreciated by students and parents around the country. So it's like the Centre Party and SV – and to the extent that the rest of the Committee – have pointed out in the comments, that the way this is practiced today challenges the free school principle and is a kind of grey zone in the legislation, where the schools formally rely on gifts, while in reality they create a situation where either parents have to finance it themselves, or there is no offer for the child. In this context, there is also a social dimension that deals with equal opportunities for children, regardless of where they live, regardless of the income of their parents in that area and regardless of the composition of their parents. Today’s practice will particularly affect children in areas where there are few parents who can or will fund such a camp school offer. This is the starting point for SV and the Central Party to agree on a legislative proposal. In any case, I would warn against rejecting it on a formal basis, i.e., that the retention of rights is usually about legal protection, as was said here, and as stated in the comments. It is not uncommon for us to use rights-fixing to ensure equal rights and equal opportunities when the Stortinget sees the way a regulation is practised, can be socially or geographically out of place, for example. That is why I think it is difficult to see any other proposal than a law that will really ensure equal opportunities for all children. Then the question is: will the Storting ensure equal opportunities for all children, or will the Storting not? A proposal has been made to develop measures to increase the participation of minority students in camp schools or similar camps. On this I would say that this is exactly what our proposal for lawmaking is about – that everyone should have an equal opportunity to participate. It is difficult to imagine a more effective way of reaching students with a minority background or children living in areas with a large minority population than just a lawmaking system, which provides for a level playing field and an equal right across the country. However, I would like to say that it is positive if there is a work coming out of this case, to look at how the current legislation can improve the situation, possibly making other attempts to change practices without our legislative proposal. That is why, of course, the SV Group will vote in favour of the proposal we are behind in the vote, but we will also vote in favour of I and II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e996	I must first use two words for a debate that came in connection with a debate earlier, on the 600 posts at high school. It was not about the matter directly, but there I commented on it based on bad memory from my side. Because it was not right that there was no follow-up research related to it initially, but it is true that it was not followed up with follow-up research. Right should be right, even in heated debates. Many people have said that camp school stays or similar trips are valuable, and I guess most of us have had a good time in camp schools. It is also true that today's legislation does not give the municipality any obligation to offer camper school stays, tours with White buses or the like. I also agree with the Committee's assessment that law-making is a strong legal instrument, and that, therefore, it is not the right instrument in this case. It is important that camp schools have good educational opportunities and that as many students as possible are given the opportunity to participate. GSI figures show that most students attend camp school, and the figures have been relatively stable over time. That's good. In order to contribute to the provision of as many students as possible of clay school accommodation, the government has a separate grant scheme designed to cover the expenditure of municipalities for camp school training at camp school stays. The size is 48.2 million. kr for that purpose. It has also been commented on by others – and I agree – that the free principle in school also applies to camp school stays. This means, among other things: that schools cannot order that pupils and supervisors cover the costs of camp or other school trips. However, voluntary payments and other funding for school trips that benefit all students are legal. Students and supervisors can therefore join forces to finance school trips through genuine voluntary gifts and gifts, as long as these contributions are not countered, and provided it benefits the entire student group. The Committee suggests that the government examine how the curricula can help ensure that all students are offered an overnight tour of several days and with a pedagogical approach in line with school curriculum objectives, such as: through camp school, study trips or other school-directed solutions. The Committee also proposes that the government develop measures to help schools ensure the participation of minority students in overnight school trips. I'm going to review changes in curricula and look at the possibilities of developing measures to ensure minority students' participation in overnight school trips.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1012	The working party is concerned about the signals from the Norsk Leirskoleforening that some municipalities do not send students to camp school for financial reasons. It points to, among others: on the conversion of the financing of camp schools in 2002 and that the conversion makes it easier for the municipality not to give priority to camp schools. The challenge of the free principle at school is also mentioned here by several. In its statement, the Council of State said little about the financial instrument. I wonder how the Council of State assesses today's financing arrangement. Does he consider that it is arranged in such a way that it supports what is our common goal, that as many students as possible should have a camp school stay during primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1017	I believe in principle that today's system is sufficient. It has, as far as I remember, also been a proposal to include what is a national grant in the municipal framework. But it did not get a majority on the Stortinget, and it is based on the fact that municipalities in general are the best ones to take overall responsibility for the schools – even because camp school is a natural part of the training or not. I think that's in line with a pretty healthy way of steering it, that you don't have too much detail management from national teams, but that you have expectations and demands for schools and provide the means for them to follow it up. So the numbers also show that there's a relatively stable number of students going to camp school, and that's good. But we have no plans now to propose changes to the grant, and we are going, as I said in my post, to follow up on what the majority of the Biggest has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1022	As I said in my post, one of the things that has been important for the Left is to include everyone and that we have a special focus on those groups that tend to fall off offer like camp school or other overnight visits. The reason is that we think that it is at least equally important – if not more important – that the students involved are allowed to take part in these offers. The State Council has now faced a challenge from the Storting to provide some measures to get minority language students to participate in these offers. I just wanted to hear with the council if he has any thoughts that he wants to share with the Storting already now, about how we can include this group of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1027	When my high school at primary school was in camp, it was a student who was not in the evening, she was a read-adian. I don't think this only applies to students with a minority background, but that's what the Stortinge asked specifically. It is difficult to force students to attend a camp school stay if for some reason their parents think it is wrong to attend. This could be done, for example, by: are that they feel that it is problematic that boys and girls spend the same night in the same place. I think it's a very old-fashioned attitude, I don't support that attitude, but it has some problematic aspects. In that case, we must discuss this thoroughly. In general, I think that information about what's actually going on at camp school, why it's an important part of the education offer, having close contact with parents in advance and taking them on to the hard work that a trip or a camp-school stay is often, can take us a long way on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1034	There was a little fine by the left there. I just stumbled a little over some of what the Council of State said. He said the following, there's a $48 million grant. kr over the State budget. It's okay. It's going to finance the teachers at the camp school. In addition, the municipalities send with their teachers, the teachers of the class. And the third part of the funding is the parent group that stands for today, because they pay transport and stay. So the proposal for a decision today says that one should ‘investigate how the curricula can contribute to the provision of overnight accommodation of several days’ duration’. [[...]] I think it might be a little complicated, given that we have a goal-driven curriculum – but now it is. I read the proposal so that the responsibility for the school gets a little stronger, but the responsibility for the municipality is going to be the same, i.e. That then we're essentially equidistant. I just want to ask the Council of State, since it is the parents who finance transport and stay, whether he thinks it is okay with such self-financing. Does he see challenges for those who do not have a financial opportunity to send the student to camp?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1045	As I said, the free principle also applies to that type of activity in the direction of the school. What is not right is to demand, for example: a fee to be paid by all participants in clay school. What's okay is that you have hard work, class collections, cake making, etc., and so you put the money in a pot, so that the whole class gets good at it. That's that agreement. The funding system operates in such a way that one part of the funding comes to the municipalities through free framework transfers, as a subsidy for students’ travel to and stay – diet and lodging – at the camp school. The second part comes under the heading of the State budget, approx. 48 million. kr, which is a grant for clay school education — which is for teaching at the camp school — and which is awarded by the State upon application by the visiting municipality when the camp school accommodation is completed and documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1054	Yeah, that's just this. It is very good that the Council of State mentions three different ways of financing camp schooling. And that's exactly what's really the challenge as well: when it's like today that the municipalities are going to pay for transport and stay, that's actually not what they're doing. That is why parents have to contribute as large sums as they do today. And then we challenge the principle of free school. I wish the Council of State could confirm that he would like to have a review to see how the funding is being done today, and whether the subsidy sent over the municipal framework is sufficient to pay transport and stay for the students who are going to camp school, because that is not the case today. Parents even experience being charged overtime for the teachers who come from their own municipality. Then we're really a little out to drive, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1061	I think it's very different from the municipality to the municipality how this works in practice. As I said, there is no opportunity to charge a fee per student for the student to attend camp school. What the Storting asks for is whether the camp school can – what to say – incorporate educational tools into the school’s framework plans. When we're going to go through this, it's also natural to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of whether this triggers some financing needs of the municipalities because it can be perceived as a larger task than the municipalities have today, or whether the funding and funding method that is today is in line with a possible curriculum change, as the Stortinget asks us to look at. You cannot send an invoice to the students or to the students' parents for the stay at camp school, but you can have the resources to collect the money that all the students enjoy as a class.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1071	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1076	Campering for kids in the base ball is more important than many people might think about. This is not about an alternative holiday, but about organized arrangements in a secure environment, with clear educational purposes. This is an alternative form of school for a very limited period of time, but young people get a lot more for the days they are in the camp. New friendships and new knowledge are valuable, but also the experience of new ways of being together and gaining knowledge. Over the years, young people will learn a lot, and there will be a lot of pressure to learn. A clay school break will mean something quite different from what the kids are used to in school or else, and be generous. For municipalities, however, clay bullets are a cost item, and this is a cost item that they can choose from. Since there is no legal right to stay in the camp during the base ball, unfortunately, fewer and fewer elephants are traveling on the clay ball. In what is called the worsting state in this context — Vestfold — half of the students never get excited about being on a clay ball. On a national basis, it is probably 15-20 pst. by the students who can't get it. If one thinks this is a sin, then the question becomes clear: What can be done for all the elephants in the base ball to have at least one clay ball delay? We in the Centre Party, together with SV, have put forward proposals to legislate for the right to a clay ball stay, because we believe that this is a right and important step to ensure that everyone gets it. We think it's a shame that we don't get multiple numbers for this in the Storting today. In practice, it is a pity for all students who in the next few years are not benefiting and enjoying participating in the camp. Unfortunately, many municipalities give priority to the camps because the local economy is in need, and of course it is easier to save by cutting out non-statutory offers. We in the Center Party have, in addition to wanting to give more than the government to the municipalities in general, targeted 100 million. kr in our 2016 alternative state budget for just clay slabs for primary schools. Norsk Leirskoleforening has simply obtained information that the municipalities contribute to the financing of the suspension to a very different extent, as has been seen in the debate. Many school classes are good at collecting money, and many parents assume responsibility, but this in practice means that today's financing of clay balls is at the forefront of the free principle. The central part of my clay schooling is and still is an important part of elementary school training. This means that the costs must be borne by the public, and the right to camp during the base ball must be legal. This is also about the fact that it must be good for the camp balls. Cancellations and notifications on short notice, depending on the economy of the municipalities, are difficult to adjust to when to have qualified people at work and offer a good deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1093	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1109	Let me start a little bit overall. In order to use the very best resources in society, we need to be able to choose from both the resources available to women and the resources available to men. We are different, and thank God for that, but we can still contribute in most, yes, all parts of society, with different perspectives, but also with different strengths. If we're going to pick the best to do the jobs, we have to be able to choose from both sexes. Norway has been in the forefront. We were among the first in the world with female voting rights, we had the first equality Ombudsman and the first equality law, and women have prominent positions in many places in Norway. We see that female participation has increased from 50 pst. in the 1970s to 74 pst. Now. Only Iceland and Switzerland are above us in terms of female participation in the labour market. Nevertheless, we have one of the world's most gender-based labour markets. There are strong cultures that are involved in influencing our choices and the professions we choose. However, women’s participation has been much more important than the Norwegian prosperity oil. Women's participation in employment has led to a growth in the Norwegian economy that has been more important than oil, which is what we often talk about when we talk about growth in Norway. But women work more often part-time, they work more often in the public sector, and they choose jobs that provide security more often. They often accept lower wages for fixed employment and predictability. By the way we have wage formation in Norwegian society, women, who are often employed in the public sector, have fallen behind in wage formation. We also see that the professions that are characterised by major change, great innovation and great development now are the professions that are not in the public sector. Thus, women lose in the fight for wage growth – they are in those sectors where wage growth is not based on those changes. We also see that there is an overweight of men among entrepreneurs. ‘Foundation’ is going to be more important and important for the conversion of Norwegian industry in the context of the green shift that we are going to undergo. We also need much more ‘foundation’ in the public sector. We really need much more ‘founding’ within what has been traditional women’s churches, in order to participate and develop the Norwegian public sector to be effective, good and exciting to work in the years to come. But equality policy is also a lot of culture, for which it is not always easy to make political decisions. In the last few days, we have seen headlines about hospitals with strong human leadership cultures that many women have criticized. Today we see a statement about the police about the same thing. When Ansgar Gabrielsen was Minister of Industry, he did the bravest thing that anyone has ever done on the equality front in recent times, namely to introduce the quota law. The left is willing to place him on the pedestal and gold chair for that very thing. Because there are two areas of Norwegian public awareness that are extra bad in terms of management and women. It's academia, which has always slowed down, and it's top management in our big business companies. The ownership message presented by the government had great ambitions in that field. I think it's hard to understand how businesses think they've picked the very best when they've just picked half of the population. My question to the Council of State today is: had she been strong enough to turn these cultures around? I believe the government at its sincere desire, and put in strategies and measures to get more female top leaders, create meeting places and get the good examples. All that's in the ownership message. But was that good enough? I think we need the grips that pick the good ladies at the top, but we also need a gender equality policy to develop the good undershepherd of middle managers. The government has presented a gender equality message that I and Left believe have some clear weaknesses. One of the clear weaknesses is that no family policy is seen as part of gender equality policy. I believe that family policy may be one of the most important issues in gender equality policy right now. For equality, start at the kitchen table. Having a subforestation of intermediaries to choose from requires that some have to have the kind of experience that allows them to be chosen. And if everyone is to have an equal experience, it's actually not to slow down by, for example. Parental leave, something we have to deal with, because here we find one of the inequalities we have between men and women today. It's about recruiting more ladies to get that middle management experience. Then paper and cash support are important steps for men and women to come out equally and have the same type of experience. We are also concerned when the Equality Act is to remove both the obligation to report and the obligation to do business for nearly 200,000 enterprises. Because when it comes to having the big bosses to choose from, the Minister of Industry must have enough small bosses to choose from. And if we're going to have many enough small bosses to choose from, we have to make sure that we have a base of middle managers with a lot of experience in those organizations and in those companies. Then we have to look at the whole gender equality policy as a whole. My other question to the Council of State today is: does she have the means she needs to achieve the ambitious goals she has set herself in the field of equal opportunities in large businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1128	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries manages its ownership of 30 companies. Other departments manage the direct ownership of the country in the other 40 companies. I am concerned that companies with State ownership take seriously the work of diversity and equality, including the recruitment of women to leading positions. It follows from company law and government principles of good ownership that the board has overall responsibility for the management of the company. It is also the Governing Board that appoints the Executive Director. I believe that this division of roles is important when we debate these issues. The board therefore has a crucial role to play in the company's work on the development of managers. It is the board that has the overall responsibility for the company’s strategies for developing skills, so that new management resources and talents develop in the company. The best governance in this area, together with the management of the company, has regular assessments and follow-up of several talents, where they try to identify candidates with the potential to take key positions in the future. In the notification of ownership, the country’s expectations of the diversity and equality of companies’ work are clearly expressed. Human resources policies are expected to be characterised by inclusion and diversity, and government-owned companies have established strategies and implement measures to promote equality and diversity in their activities. There are still too few women in leading positions in Norwegian companies, while the proportion of women taking higher education in Norway is more than half. For companies, it will be important to have strategies for how to use the best skills in companies, and thereby also how to facilitate more female top managers. The State owner report reports on key figures for gender distribution in governance and top management. The State Ownership Report for 2014 refers to the gender distribution in 65 of the companies in which the State holds holdings in: The proportion of women among executive directors was 22 p.m. by the end of 2014 – there was actually an increase of 11 pst. from the previous year. The average share of women in the group management, i.e. the company's management group, in the companies was 33 p.m. by the end of 2014. The average share of women at the level under group management and total for both levels was 32 pst, respectively. and 31 pst. by the end of 2014. As of 31 September 2015, four of the 28 managing directors of the companies managed by the NFD are women. This overview shows that there is still human dominance in the top management of companies in which the state owns. This is too bad, and I believe that the board of directors must actively work on and do something about this. It's e.g. no senior female managers in the listed companies. Some of the reasons for the low proportion of women in top management and in the company's management groups are disclosed by the companies, among others. to be a low proportion of women in total in some of the companies. It is therefore necessary to work at all levels with the recruitment of women to companies. As the owner, we have clear expectations of equality and diversity, and it is the responsibility of the board to follow up the expectations of the state. The state's expectations of diversity and equality are addressed in the ownership dialogue with the companies, and we have had equality as a priority in the ownership dialogue in 2015. The Ministry has, among other things: whether companies have established strategies, measures or objectives in order to bring more women leaders into the companies. On August 20, last year, I invited a meeting on equality and diversity in all the 28 governments that were administered by the NFD's current portfolio, as well as the management of Statoil and the Municipal Bank. The purpose of the meeting was to clarify to the directors what is the state's expectation of the company's work on diversity and equality, and to discuss the role and responsibilities of the board in this area. In addition, this gave leaders a very good opportunity to share experiences and learn from each other's good examples. In the meeting, a number of measures and input were put forward to increase the diversity and equality of companies. The discussion showed that many of the companies are systematically working on this and are on the right track. Others have a longer way to go. It was made by the participants, among others. stressed that the position of the boards and management in this regard is crucial to the outcome. It is important that the Governing Boards set clear, clear and committed objectives on which management is measured, and that the Governing Boards ensure that the objectives are followed up by concrete actions. Some of the measures presented included:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t obliging measure of gender participation in the recruitment of new staff systems to capture female management talent early requirements for a minimum of 50 pst. women in all talent development programmes talent development programme and mobility programme where one is committed to guiding and encouraging female talents to seek leadership challenges clearly invitation, motivation and involvement towards women who are potential candidates for leadership positions demand that both women and men in the finale of recruitment processes reflect the diversity of companies Entra and DNB are good examples of companies that have been actively involved in getting more women into management over the years. I expect the Boards to continue to work systematically on this in the future, and to take action to help them achieve the objectives set. Governments may need to look closely at the need for changes in both attitudes and corporate culture. We are going to follow up our expectations in the ownership dialogue with the companies in the next quarters and years. I would nevertheless point out that this is a work that will take time. But I am convinced that the companies that succeed here will be much better equipped to meet future challenges that contribute to an even more profitable development. There are parallels to drawing on the work of the Ministry of Ownership to increase the share of women in the boards of the companies it manages. The state has an ambition to increase the number of female directors in state-owned companies. As of June 2015, the proportion of women among the elected directors of the 28 NFD companies was 43 p.m. The total figure for the 65 companies reported in the State Ownership Report was 40 pst as of June 2015. This represents an increase of four percentage points. That shows that we're going in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1198	Thank you for a thorough reply from the Council of State. I agree with the last. She also said that there is still a long way to go. The ownership message has a big focus on the top management itself. But if you're going to be able to have top management with both women and men who are both good role models and good bosses, you have to have this undergrowth. The Councils of State outlined measures, including: It has 50 pst. women and 50 pst. men in talent development or training programmes. We see that more people do it, for example. DNB -- I think they're picking more girls than boys into their talent program, just to have the underdog to choose from in a few years' time. These measures, I believe, are the most effective measures that the Minister of Industry can take in an ownership dialogue with his enterprises. We don't just need someone who breaks the glass roof and who becomes the big bosses, we're going to be able to turn cultures, if we're going to be able to put other cultures into that kind of business, it's going to have to be done through the undergrowth of middle managers that you're growing up. And everyone knows that, whether it's a car mechanics company, whether it's a nursing home or whether it's a big international company: cultures are influenced by whether we have a mix of sex, and they're always positive if it is. Clean women's jobs and clean people's jobs have clear weaknesses. It's when we get to the mix that we can get the most out of people in those businesses and in the workplaces that we're talking about. So my advice to the government council is to focus on creating it subsidized, but it's also important to have symbols, which top leaders are also. The commitment of the Minister of Economic Affairs must enter into the equality minister and the other ministers – family policy and everything else that allows people to have the experience they need in order to have a top position in business. This experience must be shared equally between women and men in order to be able to choose freely between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1207	That's a good advice, and that's actually the way we work. It is the fact that the ownership message is very clear that we do not distinguish between expectations for equality and diversity in management of the company. We are very clear that there should be strategies for the companies – ‘in business’ is the concept that has been used – and it goes without saying that one then must include the whole business, one must have an awareness of recruitment, and then one must have someone to recruit from. So this has to go from top to bottom. What the directors at last year's meeting were clear was that the companies that have a board of directors and a board of directors where this is a conscious part of the job are also the most successful. So you can't just do one or the other. What I'm concerned about is that it's the board's responsibility. The board of directors will do this job, and then we'll measure the board of directors on what job they do when we evaluate and point out board members. I also very much agree with the representative's points about family policy. It is clear that this is closely related. It's also maybe one of the surprises we've been given, that 40 pst. women of the ASA governing body did not give an infective effect to the management of the same companies. We also have some of the best welfare schemes related to being parents. Nevertheless, we are far behind countries that have poorer arrangements. So we have to look more to find a good answer to this. Then the representative was involved in the proposal for a new gender equality message, which the Minister for Children and Gender Equality sent to the hearing. That hearing has now ended. I know that the hearing replies are now being worked on, and they are being carefully reviewed. With regard to the reporting obligation, it has been criticised for being too bureaucratic, for resource-requiring and with little demonstrable effect. But it is, as I said, now an assessment of the recommendation that the Council of State should make to the government. The duty of activity has also been sought to clarify by means of a working method, so that the business should know the duties it has and how to work systematically with this. But it's part of another department.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1218	The economy creates values and forms the basis for the well-being we have in Norway today. The prerequisites for this are the success of the country's businesses, so that we can secure jobs and finance the welfare systems we have, even in the future. However, we are now facing serious challenges. The situation in the petroleum industry has led to an increase in unemployment, particularly in heavily related to the oil sector. This situation has had a major impact on the Norwegian economy and on business activity. Unemployment entails costs for individuals and for society as a whole. I am therefore pleased that we have a government with the Right and the Advance Party, which takes this seriously. One of the main areas of government’s activity is to strengthen the competitiveness of industry and to contribute to increased employment, creating safe jobs and necessary transitions. As stated in the ownership message that we treated for approx. One year ago, it is an important measure to facilitate diverse and valuable ownership. Numerous, well-developed and competent ownership environments are a prerequisite for society's competitiveness and value creation for its companies. Through this communication, the government provided a responsible state ownership policy, which allows for both the creation of value and ownership. It is important for total value creation to increase, so that funding for welfare schemes is strengthened – the cake simply needs to grow. It is therefore essential that companies are composed of competent boards which can manage their activities in the best possible way. The work of the Boards plays an important role in the long-term success of companies. In this context, equality and diversity are important. Different experience and different competences can have a positive impact on the work of the boards by meeting challenges based on different bases for making good decisions. However, based on SSB numbers, only 38,2 pst. by the leaders of the country women. There are few according to Norwegian standards, but not so very bad if you look at it with international eyes. The government, and the government parties, therefore have an ambition to increase the number of women directors in government-owned companies. But let one thing be clear: the Progress Party has for a long time said that this cohesion should occur naturally through sensible strategies. We may not put former Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen on a gold chair as fine as Trine Skei Grande did. It is important for us that there are no definite and rigid criteria for gender balance in the boards and among the employees of the companies. The best and most valuable governance and enterprise consists of persons with relevant competences who use their competence in a good way and who are aware of the responsibilities of each individual. In addition, the diversity of companies must be in line with the wishes of the boards for their activities. The Boards themselves should be able to work to equip themselves to carry out long-term value creation. They need to be able to put in place their own strategies to increase corporate diversity, based on their own knowledge of what skills are needed in today's situation. Equality and diversity are important in business. The best way to achieve this is that the boards themselves have the freedom to decide who is competent for the business of the companies, without public pressure. This strengthens the opportunity for companies to meet tomorrow's challenges in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1233	Last year there was an article entitled ‘Women have errors, men have potential’. The point in that article was that when you're recruiting bosses and there's men who have a lack, it's considered that, yes, it's not that dangerous, we can sort it out -- he has the potential -- it can be fixed. When women have the same defects, it is seen as much more final – it is a mistake, she is not qualified. It's not okay – it's not okay in 2016 that women are discriminated against in this way. It's not just in state companies that we have the challenges of recruiting women. In Rogaland, the NHO organises an annual conference in January called the Sola Meeting. Your Rogaland bench is also being invited, and I've been there. I can say with certainty that there is also a potential for getting more women in senior positions, because there are many good adult men present there. We can do something about this through laws and regulations, ownership positions, etc., but it is also very much about a culture, and as politicians and leaders in this country, it is also our responsibility to lead by example. Now we're about to get a new Supreme Justice, and it's neither the task nor the privilege of appointing the leader of the third state power. That's what the government is going to do. But I mean, and it has to be allowed to say it from the Parliament's pulpit, that when you have a good and competent lady who is a candidate to become a Supreme Justice, in 2016 it's time for a lady to lead our Supreme Court. Several have been involved in family policies and that family policies must also be seen as part of gender equality. I think it's an essential part of equality. Last week there were a number of suggestions that the kindergartens called the mother when the kids are sick. She's on the list first, and that's the standard. There's nothing wrong with calling mom in and out, because mom takes care of the kids, of course, but Dad probably does too. It's just that there's a naturality in calling mom, it's easier to get answers, it's easier for her to say, yeah, it's okay, I'm coming. She takes off from work, and it's considered a matter of course that there's a mother who's going to do it. It is clear that such attitudes have consequences in the workplace, when women — and only women — are seen as those who take natural responsibility in such situations. I believe that the paperwork is also one thing we need to look at and assess. It doesn't have the effect that we want it to have, because we want it to be equal at home. We want Dad to take responsibility at home too, because that's the way we get equality in the workplace as well. When it's as natural for kindergartens to call my dad as it is to call my mom, we've succeeded a long time on the way – when it's just as natural for an employer to say that it's the same thing whether you hire a lady or a man. If they have kids, there's nothing to say, because you're just as home if you're a man or a lady, and that's why the paper is an important tool in that way. I'm a lawyer myself, and I can say that in the business sector that I am, in business law, we also have a potential for more ladies. In the law study, gender equality has come a long way, but it is not yet fully reflected at the partner level. This also applies in other industries, especially those with an international focus. Take, for example: the financial industry, where owners, managers, have an international background. They don't have that culture, they don't have the law and the rights that we're used to here, and so they don't see it as a matter of course that dad has to take an equal share of responsibility at home. The paperwork works like that, if you have a claim, if you expect it, if you want it in our law, it will be accepted. If it's optional, it's a lot worse for dad to hit the table and say he should actually be home as much as the mother of the kid. So we have a potential. It's an important topic, and that's something we're going to work a lot on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1250	Then I'm going to start the post in the same way as the previous speaker. In DN on 29 October last year, the title was ‘Mæland’s plan for several women entrepreneurs: More privatisation in the health care system’. This, I think, is very relevant, because I feel that the interpellant added up to a much broader discussion about the challenge than what the text adds up to. It's not just a matter of ownership in state ownership, it's a broad question of how we recruit the best competence for all the roles of Norwegian society, and there I very much agree that we have some challenges. There is a lot of work ahead of us, and I think the interpellant made up for a very constructive and broad debate. In the state ownership, I believe that the Minister of Industry has done a lot. There's no doubt that there's been a lot of pressure on companies to focus on recruiting widely, and I think it's pretty rational for companies to recruit widely, otherwise you're missing a lot of the competence base in Norwegian society. There I believe that the Minister of Economic Affairs may have been so close to the border that you can be as Minister of Industry when you're dealing with the state's ownership principles at the same time. In the case of state ownership, you have to divide it between the companies in which the state sits alone as owner, and the companies in which you sit as a partner with others, and then we have some obvious rules that you have to deal with. As the Minister of Industry said, then we have to govern through electoral committees, through the boards and through the signals that we own, together with other owners, give the companies. There I believe, as I said, that the Minister of Industry has given so many clear signals that one has really been at the limit of what is possible as a state council when dealing with those rules. So to what's the really interesting debate, and that's how to get women out and recruit widely across the Norwegian community. In the public sector, there are seven out of ten women employed. It is also obvious, as the Productivity Commission today points out, that we need to focus on the public sector and how we manage the public sector. And the public sector actually accounts for many of the professions in which women have at least traditionally entered, and if we are to change the whole culture of Norwegian society, we actually have to dry out discussing the framework we lay around the development of the public sector in order to stimulate, among other things. women entrepreneurs, because there is no doubt that leadership comes out of knowing the risk, one has been involved in the type of risk that entrepreneurs take. There's a very interesting debate like that. It's just 28 pst. by the founders of Norway today who are women. It's a lot more skeptical than any of the compositions of the boards we're now discussing. I think the interpellant is doing very well to focus on a much broader challenge, and, as I said, I think we have a strong focus on those challenges, they're not solved in one day. But by pointing out very strongly in the ownership message and in other contexts that it is a social responsibility to develop Norwegian competence in the best possible way, and then it concerns both sexes, I believe that the government has taken the responsibility in this field, and then the world will certainly continue to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1263	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this matter. I think it is incredibly important, and it was also carefully discussed in the context of the ownership announcement, which we had for treatment last year. It's a little interesting, given that Norway is one of the world's most equal countries, that women, however, when we look at the situation, participate to a lesser extent than men in management and management in the business world here in Norway. Both Telenor and Kongsberg have been given new male group managers in recent months, which, once again, has updated the question of how more women are recruited into management. From the Labour Party we have programmed a target of 40 pst. women at the top levels of the country. We also believe that state-owned companies should have a recruitment strategy to increase the proportion of women in the group management, in order to achieve a target of at least 40 pst. by every gender in management. But we also wanted the government to promote a recruitment strategy for women in the management of state-owned companies, which we also addressed last year in the handling of the gross domestic product. And the Committee also noted – all except the Right Party and the Advance Party – that state-owned companies should have recruitment strategies to increase the number of women in group management, with a target of at least 40 pst. management women. So I want to brag by the Council of State about the level of ambition, wanted to actually get more women into the management, because that's what I think Monica Meland has been very good at showing. They have taken different steps, went into the ownership conference and had a very clear focus on this, and they have had meetings and called to focus on it. But at the same time it's not a quick fix to get this to, it takes time. A lot of the companies are good at having their own recruitment strategies. But when you talk to women in the management of state-owned companies, they say that there should have been even more action in such a recruitment strategy, where you have a holistic focus, but that at the same time you put a spotlight on long-term career plans for women entering state-owned companies, so that you have opportunities to reach the top – that you have built up a plan on it. Because we see results, there are a lot of women in management who become HR managers, but there are a lot of other disciplines where you should also have women in. So they're very clear even on what they need, and after having had different consultations with ladies in the state-owned companies, I recommend that the council also have it, to get the concrete footage as they see it. Because they have experienced it on the body, and then you have a much clearer input to make, as I see it. I realize that it's hard to get results quickly, but to get it over time, I think it's important to work systematically, and then I just want the Council of State to be even more concerned with talking to the ladies who are in the state owned companies, getting the concrete input and then putting it into a system. It's not enough to have ambitions, it's not enough to encourage, but you have to look at how you can actually impose some demands – specific demands – on how you work. It's also a little daunting when you see that companies that recruit, to a large extent, use headhunters to hire. Not that there is something wrong in itself, but it is important that the order is included when that kind of service is contracted, and that it is quite clear that you are also looking for women in that management. I think long-termity – putting long-term career plans in the different companies – and being clear about how to get women into the different segments becomes very important. Then I wish the Council of State luck with that job – backing from Stortinget! It's important that we have this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1280	Then we have at least been made clear that there is good backing in the hall that this should be done. And then we have also been made clear that the Advance Party is against all gold chairs, including those given to Ansgar Gabrielsen. There are two things I want to stress for the Council of State at the end. One is that we can't forget that the growth and undergrowth of middle managers is an important part of succeeding. The second thing that the representative from the Right raised, which I also think is important, is that in Sweden, which really has a much more lively gender equality debate than we do in Norway, where there is much higher on the agenda, there is much discussion about the use of public sector innovation and founding, both to raise the status of traditional women's households and to provide women with management experience that is more relevant also in the private sector. We see today that not only do we have a very gender-based labour market, but we also have very little transition from the public to the private sector. Management experience is inconvenient — when you have a lot of management experience in one sector, you use it very rarely in the other. I think that's because of the way we organize the public sector. So thinking about the possibility of greater innovation, the possibility of raising the status of women's girls, but also raising women's paychecks by looking at how we give the opportunity for the start-up and development of the public sector, could also give us a greater grasp of women's leaders in the private sector, because you'll get a much more similar experience, which is easier to transfer. This has been part of the gender equality debate in Sweden, but not part of the gender equality debate in Norway, which I have missed a bit. I believe it is a great potential to do something to raise women both statusally and by recruiting leaders, but also by thinking much more so in the public sector. This was a slightly larger approach than just the ownership message, but it was the ownership message that provoked a concern in me as to whether we have the right tools when we see what results it gets in some of the companies where there is great government ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1292	At first, I want to say that I really enjoyed the interpellation, because I experience – probably like many others who are involved in this debate – that there are a lot of people who throw themselves on, and that mean a lot and have a lot of good advice and very good perceptions when there are special events, when there are war types in the paper, but the most important equality work is going on from day to day. There's a lot of hard work in the companies, both in those that the state owns and in the rest of the business world. You have to follow the decisions every day, and the decisions you make from day to day, I think are the most important. We have ownership dialogue with the companies, we call the directors, and we say we want to test the boards at what job you do -- that's what we can do. We must also always be clear that we have a role distribution, and it must be at the bottom – it is the government that is going to do the job. It has been mentioned that governors of state companies have employed directors. Yes, there are women in those boards, there are women in the recruitment committees. So there have been some assessments that we shouldn't interfere with, but we need to make sure that the government has good processes, that they have strategies, and that they actually produce results. Then you have to work on it from the bottom to the top. Of course, there are a lot of different areas that play in. I believe that the emergence of more women entrepreneurs is very important, and that is why we have our own actions linked to this in the business plan that we presented last October. It is very important to show women entrepreneurs who have succeeded, who are good role models. Having their own programmes for women entrepreneurs is very important. Paperbackm has been mentioned – there is a great debate and a lot of disagreement. I repeat that some of my concerns are that despite good arrangements – some of them can certainly be even better – we are far behind countries that have much worse arrangements. So it's about that we have to do more things at once. I also belong to the category of lawyer, or did it once. It's not a good reading, either in the law profession or in the business world. But there are those who succeed, and one of the things that we did when the Minister for Gender Equality worked out was to invite representatives from the private sector. There's a firm like the attorney's firm, Hjort, that's 40 pst. female partners because they want – not because they work with things that occupy women more than men, but because they want to. We know that road cover and DNB do. There are many who work well with this, and we have to highlight them and raise them up. In the case of the 40 pst requirement, there are certainly good intentions behind it, but it violates the ownership principles for the role-sharing between the board and the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1307	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1313	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1320	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide systematic evidence of the level of mental health in Norway, including a population representative survey of the level of mental health and the occurrence of psychiatric disorders in the country.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1342	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to integrate knowledge of mental health into the school’s subjects, so that children and young people are fully trained in the physical and mental health of the body.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a strengthening of the health centre and school health service, including a simultaneous strengthening of the psychological competence in the service.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1382	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mrs Aasen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make concrete proposals and timetables for all Norwegian schools to become dyslexic and dyscal.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1416	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anne Tingelstad Wøien, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that all students have a statutory right to offer a camp-school stay during primary school, or another overnight trip of several days and with a pedagogical approach in line with school curricula’s objectives of competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1444	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to legislate for students’ right to one camp school stay during primary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1474	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1501	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-02-11.ana.ud579e1532	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
