ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e26	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Magne Rommetveit in the days 16-17. of March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Eigil Knutsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e44	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e47	On behalf of Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Olav Syversen, Anders Tyvand and I will promote a proposal for a representative on a more environmentally friendly and sustainable aviation sector with good capacity utilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e64	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e71	Do we have a unemployment crisis? The government says no, but the number of unemployed is high and has now passed 4.5 pst. On Monday we received news that Aker Solutions will cut 600 jobs at Fornebu, Moss, Tranby and Ågotnes. We see signs that the crisis in the South-West is spreading to larger parts of the country. And then what do we get to be met by the government? The government's Minister of Labour says that in difficult times you get a push when it comes to butter, and what we see from policies and measures illustrates that the government believes unemployment is an instrument in the transition. The unemployed shall be forced to move, break up and move to other industries. This is a desktop model for how our society works. The problem is that too many people are now out of work, and it costs society dearly. The consequences are great for individuals, and we see great negative effects on society. The Labour Party believes in a different transition, where the overall aim is to get people to work, where we prevent the workers' skills from deteriorating, and where we enable companies to create new jobs. That is why we have proposed a larger and more targeted package of measures to address the problem in the short term. And we have listened to the companies along the coast, and to the NHO, the LO, the Maritime Forum, who are asking for an extended law of placement. At the latest today, we heard from large municipalities in the South-West that they are ready to get more people to work if the government stands up. There have been 45 new unemployed every day after the Right and Advance Party took over. At the same time, it cancels out 50 million. kr a day in a treasure trove. The government is still talking about its package of measures, but Stavanger Aftenblad could show that it was far less than advertised. So the government's main strategy against unemployment is to cut taxes. The working party would rather spend the money on targeted actions. So we ask again, because the Biggest has not yet received the answer: what is the employment effect of these cuts? How many fewer unemployed have been the result of this main approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e84	The government believes that we have a very difficult situation on the labour market, and in the areas now affected by high unemployment, it is a crisis. It is a crisis for those who become unemployed, it is difficult for the community, and it is a challenge for and a crisis in the supply and oil industries. But we have also said that there is not a total crisis in the Norwegian economy, because it is still so that in very many states unemployment goes down. And in many counties, the growth in employment is significantly greater than the number that has become unemployed, and therefore the unemployment rate is falling in parts of the country. Then I understand that there is an important discussion about words, but I therefore state that the crisis for those affected and for the areas affected is great. That is why we put up a large package of measures in the budget – in the light of a crisis – to contribute to more work, activity and change. We had a budget that was very expansive, which the Workers' Party thought was too expansive, but which thus contributes to more work, activity and conversion. We had measures that were exceptional, and the main device for maintenance is that we have picked maintenance projects in the South-West, and where we have measures to stimulate start-up, the BIA – all the general tools – to create the new jobs. It is important to distinguish between the measures for increasing activity now and the long-term shift. It is possible that there is an inequality between what the government thinks and what the Labour Party believes, because we believe that perhaps the most important thing about the transition is to create new jobs, so that you are able to pay taxes for the future. The major shift facing the whole of Norwegian society — not just single enterprises — is to find more sources of income at a time when oil age means less, and then the sources of income have to come to work in order to pay taxes and in enterprises that are sustainable for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e93	I didn't get a response to how many jobs these tax cuts give, but those who have the most are going to get a big cut to do more, while those who have the least are going to get cut off their rights to get into business. This government has made it more difficult to be available: the pay guarantee scheme is weakened, the holiday allowance until the unemployed have been removed, and the termination allowance for those who lose their jobs is taxed. A total of two billion have been cut. kr for the unemployed. This year, too, the child supplement was cut for disabled people. An unadulterated low-income mother before being insured will lose NOK 20 000 per year as a result of this change. We are getting more and more examples of this. What is the Prime Minister's message to those who have to deal with even less than before because of the need for discovery to give these cuts that will create activity and new jobs, but that she is not able to illustrate how to create activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e100	The tax relief contributes to the long-term transition. They contribute to the arrival of the new businesses, they contribute to more activity, and we see that it is coming, and there is a record in applications for founding funds, there are many more that are allocated to it, and there are many measures that show that there is a rootstock at the bottom of the Norwegian economy. The tax relief is not a short-term measure of lifting the activity; it is the activity we have over the state budget, so what the Workers' Party is now trying to do is to say that there is a justification for the tax relief as a short-term increase in activity. No, it's the long-term transition. But then I would like to say that it might perhaps be a reflection of the Workers' Party to read the Technical Calculations Committee for Income Statements, which clearly states that pensioners in Norway, among other things, have not received a real wage cut because we gave tax reductions last year. So it's not like all low-income groups don't get any improvements with this government. Just because of the government’s tax policy, they have gained real growth and not a deterioration.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e107	It opens for follow-up questions – first, Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e110	The unemployment rate increases, while the government action package decreases. What was supposed to be $4 billion targeted for the South West turned out after Stavanger Aftenblad checked out these funds, to be less than half. By the end of January, there were 12,600 rogallanders who were completely out of work, and almost 5,000 have been out of work for more than six months, and all indications indicate that it will continue to increase. There's a strain on each one, and there's a strain on their family, and in addition, it's out of the ordinary for society that there's so many and more unemployed. So the need for targeted measures now is entirely decisive. Now the N.H.O. also says that the crisis is spreading to almost all parts of the country. We in the Workers' Party almost live with the fact that the Right Leader is not in agreement with us, but is she in agreement with the NHO?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e117	In the oil and gas sectors, employees around the country are now affected by lower activity. That's what we see in Oslo and Akershus, where engineering works disappear because of the intrusions that happen. However, the overall picture of the increase in unemployment based on the regional Nav figures shows where the unemployment rate still falls in several counties. Then we don't have a national unemployment crisis, nor does the NHO say we have. So I want to say that there's still an extraordinary package of 4 billion. kr in the budget. It is that when Bergen Group can report that they have received 70 million. kr from parts of the package, which have gone to the Marine, there are jobs in the West, although Stavanger Aftenblad has not counted it in, but there are jobs in the West, because the yard industry is mainly in the West, so the missions come, even if it is a national scheme. And the Workers' Party has no more direct measures for the South and the West. In their package they also have increased general arrangements, but I assume that they then believe that they work where the vacancy is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e124	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e127	The Prime Minister is clear that the challenges in the labour market are very geographically different. The government budget came in October, and the budget agreement came in December. Every year we have the opportunity to revise the state budget, and it will come in May. The Christian People's Party has been working for a long time with active, targeted actions that we believe will be important in that context, to update the picture that we are now seeing. In particular, the East-Agder, West-Agder, Rogaland, Hordaland and More and Romesdal counties are strongly affected by the current decline. This is why we think more targeted measures are important, such as: directly through the municipalities or Nav to reach directly those who are unemployed, or geographical measures that can create jobs right where they live. Is there a device and targeting that the Prime Minister seems reasonable, and which she will look at with thorough eyes when we may present it in the context of revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e133	The government also looks at how we can secure measures that help to combat unemployment. Then we have to look at both geography and sectors. Some of the measures we contribute to, for example: in the crisis package, actions targeting research and development, including: by increasing petroleum research, which has both some environmental pages and others. We know that in Demo2020 goes over 50 pst. Of all the projects of companies located in the South and West, it is important to make sure that we think on two levels when we talk about what contributes to activity, what contributes to the long-term transition. However, proportionally to almost all national instruments, South and West countries get more than their share in geography, simply because it is where they now have the greatest ideas. But yes, we also look at measures that can further stimulate. Then we have to look at the framework when it comes to the revised national budget. But now they're also starting to work. In Stavanger Aftenblad today, there is a big announcement that the millions that were allocated to Stavanger, i.e. for maintenance of the hospital in Stavanger, are now getting the projects out.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e138	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e141	Today, VG has a look at the Prime Minister’s ‘chewing too low a price’. At the Political Quarter today one could hear that the Minister of Labour thanks to the Drahelp a low krone course gives to Norwegian business. It is not obvious that this is the case, because the Right has been eager to exchange the Norwegian kroner with the euro. Jan Tore Sanner has previously told the NRK that the benefits of the euro are clearly greater than the disadvantages. So my question to the jubilant Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister satisfied that we have our own, Norwegian currency, or should the Prime Minister instead wish that we had introduced the euro in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e148	It might be a little bit off the main question, but I'll still answer it. Ten years ago we had an investigation that went through how the Norwegian economy had changed since 1994, and which then showed that there were enough better arguments to introduce the euro at the time it was in 1994, because the Norwegian economy was becoming more like Europe. So at the time when Jan Tore Sanner said that, it would have been part of the euro cooperation that maybe meant that some of the jobs we need today had not been closed down, because in the last ten years we have closed down businesses in Norway because they have not been able to keep up their competitiveness, because the krone price has been high because of high oil prices. That is why we have lost market shares. But today, of course, I am happy that we have the Norwegian kroner, because that means that the adjustment is going faster. But our basis has become lower than it would have been if we hadn't had an effect on the high dollar rate. We had had more jobs today in Norway in other sectors if not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e157	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e160	It is obvious that losing a job is not an immediate advantage, and it is particularly difficult when there are many who do it in the same area of the country. We should therefore not waste debate-time on the concept of whether or not unemployment constitutes a crisis. The availability hit the individual hard, it's high, and there's a lot of people who, for many reasons, can't move where the jobs are. I rather think we should focus on putting in place more targeted measures to boost the activity of those parts of the country that are struggling most, especially in the South West. As we heard today's news this morning, there are a number of construction projects that are ready in these areas, but that lack some funding to implement. One such project that both I and the Prime Minister know about is the plans to build a national bicycle echo on the Sola in Rogaland. Many of these construction projects can be realised with some government funding — directly or indirectly — and will stimulate activity. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will she be involved in facilitating a targeted scheme to undertake such activity when the Stortinge in our country is going to deal with the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e169	Very much of the package we have created is targeted maintenance projects and smaller construction projects. There are also a number of major projects that many will start now, but then it is important to learn from the knowledge we have about what happened last time we launched extraordinary actions. A number of measures that were very large took a long time before they started, and then they became not countercyclical, but medcyclic. Therefore, we have been very clear that what we give money to, must be able to implement quickly. We have an open position to consider different projects, but we have not taken a specific position on the bicycle velodrom in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e174	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e177	It must make the impression of being unemployed and hearing a government that is so busy stressing time and time again that it is not a crisis – but it is now. I heard the Minister of Labour today at the NRK calling on Norwegian municipalities to start maintenance projects and have projects ready to start activities in the municipalities. Everyone can agree, but why did the government cut off hundreds of millions of dollars in its own package for maintenance in the municipalities as late as December?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e184	In the budget agreement, we made some redeployments of money, because we did other activities. In the supplementary proposal relating to refugee and asylum-seeker issues, we also made changes, but in that area, there has actually become more money in general for updating and maintenance because of it, because asylum-seekers need to be upgraded and clarified, so there has become more activity related to it. This is because when the Storting deals with and provides room for the different priorities, the composition of the package changes. Then I want to say that it is important to be clear that Norway as a nation is not in a crisis in today's situation, and that we do not have a crisis in the labour market. As politicians, we must not talk up a situation in which much of the activity in Norway is kept up because people have confidence in their own private economy and it is traded. If it fails and we talk into a situation like that, we talk into greater free time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e191	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e195	It is now five years since the civil war in Syria began. It is a conflict that has claimed over 250,000 lives and driven 11 million people away. The last few weeks have created new hope. A truce has been concluded between most parties, although terrorist groups such as ISI are not part of it. Armistice has made parts of Syria war-free zones. Humanitarian aid reaches more people, it relieves the suffering, but the need is still enormous. The next step must now be to negotiate a political solution. But this will be demanding and will take time. It will also be the military struggle against the extreme Islamists. Of the 11 million displaced persons, 4.5 million have already fled abroad, especially to neighbouring countries. Refugee campers have our underfunded. In desperation, many continued to move on to Europe, during the last half of the year, especially via Turkey and over to Greece. The EU is now negotiating an agreement with Turkey. The aim is to regulate the flow of refugees, reduce life-threatening boat transport and stop the traffickers. However, Turkey is reversing the price the EU has to pay for an agreement, and the internal split in the EU, especially for quota refugees, makes the outcome uncertain. Norway must contribute constructively. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what does she think about the possibility of reaching a good agreement between the EU and Turkey? And what has Norway offered to contribute to get an agreement that can work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e208	First of all, I want to say that I very much agree with the description, that this has been an extremely difficult situation. The images we see from, for example. Homs now, where almost nothing is left of a living, vibrating city because it's bombed to pieces, and the humanitarian disaster people have been subjected to, I think must make a deep impression on absolutely everyone. There's some little hope. The truce gives everyday hope inside Syria. It is also a hope based on what we got at the donor country conference, to finance UN operations better in terms of more money entering Syria, but also to neighbouring countries, and as part of it, giving refugees in the neighbourhoods the opportunity to work on projects and actions, which helps both the authorities of Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey to feel secure on some kind of funding to help them if several of the refugees there are given different forms of work permits and job access, which helps to stabilise. As far as the agreement with Turkey is concerned, there are many different aspects to this. It must be dealt with on the European Union side tomorrow and Friday. It's not done. It is very important that it takes care of the international obligations of EU countries. President Donald Tusk also said it very clearly in Cyprus yesterday. It's a little bit difficult to comment on the details of this, because there's still a lot left. Norway has contributed by both saying that we agree that there must be a European common solution and that we should participate if there is a European common solution to refugee and asylum policy in the future. But we have to see that it works, that the grips that are taken actually work. Then we also contribute to Greece in the situation that is now. We've given $5 million. through the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness for the EU Coordination Mechanism. On 9 March, beds, mattresses and other things were sent as a practice on this, and we also contribute in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e219	I want to thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that Norway is involved in providing humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood. We bid both with boats in the Mediterranean, which save lives, and which the Prime Minister also mentions, with EEA funds to Greece. We have increased the number of quota refugees we accept, and the asylum strike that has been the last year to Norway has led us to take our part. But it's also important for Norway that there be an agreement. Now we don't know exactly what it's like, but there are some demanding challenges with such an agreement. I want to challenge the Prime Minister for two things. One is how the Prime Minister views an agreement that in practice discriminates against Syrian refugees and other real refugees from other areas of war, as this agreement states. The second is: with what certainty my Prime Minister that we have been given the right to asylum in the agreement that we now see can be negotiated between the EU and Turkey?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e226	I think it is important to base what President Tusk said yesterday in Nicosia. There he said very clearly that EU countries must fulfil their international obligations, and among some of what he said, everyone should receive individual treatment in Greece. That, I believe, is a guarantee that you will have an assessment of whether you need asylum or not. There are a lot of things that aren't done, but it's important that you have this basic commitment. I also understand that the clear opinions of Donald Tusk are on the EU agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e231	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e234	One of the important principles of the agreement to stop so many refugees coming to Greece is that every refugee who comes to Greece from Turkey should be sent back to Turkey. Instead of one then coming straight over to Europe, one will come at the back of the queue, and then one will be able to take acids over to Greece. Basically, it sounds good, but the challenge is that many fewer are likely to escape. The agreement will then be successful, but in the next round, fewer acids will be available from Turkey. So the outcome of the agreement may be that a long way is losing the right to seek asylum, and there will not be as many acids that are being moved to Europe. I am aware that the Prime Minister has good contacts down in Europe and likes Norway to be involved in influencing. So I'm very curious about what the Prime Minister and Norway have done to help influence the outcome that we'll hopefully see in an agreement over the next few days, which becomes important for Norway, but not least for all the refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e241	I think it should be a goal for us that as little as possible spends on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean, which last year took almost 3,500 lives. If the signal effects of this agreement are that fewer people come to Europe to seek asylum, it means that fewer people drown. We have to remember that. We believe that the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean is something we should actually slow down, because it gives hope the other way. The sum of helping locally, getting to a truce and all these other measures is that as little as possible travel. Then, with the agreement you get, you want to send clear signals to some of those who don't need protection, that Europe is no longer open. It's actually an advantage, because fewer will die. In addition, we have a situation where several refugees are accepted. My position is that Europe should view this as a lesson, also considering that several countries should do as Norway and take several High Commissioner refugees in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e248	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e251	The refugee situation we are facing requires stronger international cooperation. Therefore, it is important that Norway is a driving force for a common European approach, so that we can have control of the external borders of Schengen, and so that we can, of course, also provide protection to those who are entitled to it. The EU is negotiating a refugee agreement with Turkey. The Labour Party believes that it is important to reach a common European agreement to deal with the refugee situation within international conventions, as the Prime Minister also pointed out. The question is: how does the Prime Minister assess the possibilities of distributing the refugees to be resettled – given that agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e260	There is, of course, an extremely difficult situation within the EU in terms of resettlement. We have seen that in the voluntary agreement of 160 000 quota refugees and the distribution already done. Norway has said that we should receive 1,500 over two years – 750 every year – while there are countries in Europe that have not been so willing to accept. It is also a challenge that some refugees are offered to travel to land and do not want to stay there. It's actually a real challenge. One of the reasons why not all of these mechanisms work is that refugees will definitely go either to Scandinavia or to Germany. When they are then referred to as travelling to an Eastern European country, Bulgaria or others, they say no. We can't have it like that. This must be a mechanism of common solidarity. There have become more nationalist governments in several countries. It is a challenge for EU-wide cooperation. Then I believe that finally you can find solutions in the European Union. There have been many tough points, but they have managed to find solutions before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e269	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e273	The EU-Turkey work plan could potentially lead to major changes in the migration pattern. According to the agreement, all those who leave Turkey to the Greek islands, whether or not they are in need of protection, are to be returned to Turkey. And for every acid returned to Turkey, the EU countries are to take an acid from Turkey. The refugees who seek the boatway are scheduled to be at the rear of the line. If the agreement between Turkey and the EU has the intended effect, there is reason to believe that other routes will be the main route into the Schengen area and become more relevant. How does the Prime Minister believe that the agreement can affect the influx over Storskog? Can Storskog become a new main route into Europe? And does the government have a plan to deal with this if border cooperation with Russia again turns out to be a failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e280	I believe that an agreement between the EU and Turkey will have two effects. One is that it's going to slow down total migration to Europe, because it's now a picture in the world that there's an open door to Europe, which makes many people who don't have a need for protection too. And then I have underlined that this is how the European Union and the President of the European Union say that they must take the international commitments and individual treatment with them. So there's something in the questioner's drawing of the picture that I don't think exactly matches that at least Donald Tusk now says. It's also going to be other paths. We are still working to ensure that the common understanding we have with Russia about the situation on our border is maintained. We always have a readiness for something to happen, but that's of course how we spend time and resources maintaining the understanding we have that this shouldn't be a migration route.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e287	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e290	It is good that the Prime Minister draws up a picture where it is the neighbourhoods and refugees who are in crisis, and not Norway. So it's just asking if what we're doing is proportionate. Norway could contribute a lot more, both in its neighbourhoods and by receiving more quota refugees, but it is also important that we now contribute to the international debate in order to keep human rights alive in a time of crisis for those fleeing their lives. The Prime Minister now referred to Donald Tusk's alleged need to respect his international obligations and to ensure that asylum seekers are treated in Europe if they enter Europe. The question is only then whether the Norwegian Government will also investigate its international Convention obligations relating to such a type of agreement as it now appears that the EU and Turkey are planning to conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e297	Let me first say that Norway is doing a lot. We've advertised 10 billion. DKK for assistance in the neighbourhoods over the next four years. It is the largest commitment Norway has ever made in relation to a humanitarian crisis. We have been in charge of bringing about the largest international commitment in relation to such a humanitarian crisis. Through a deal in Stortinget, we also accept a record number of quota refugees. We are at the top of Europe when it comes to receiving quota refugees, and fortunately we have a long tradition in Norway to be at the top. We've always been solidarity and accepted quota refugees, while very many other countries haven't. We are constantly investigating our Convention obligations, and so far it is difficult for us to say exactly what the European system is going to be like. There are too many individual decisions that are undecided. I stress that when the President of the European Council delivers these kinds of opinions, it is because they are aware of the Convention challenges they face. The EU is also linked to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e304	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e307	Prime Minister Erna Solberg pursues a policy that contributes to a strong centralisation of Norway. It is the centralisation of police, hospitals, tax havens, energy companies, in fisheries, in agriculture – in all areas the answer is the same: it is centralisation, it is bureaucracy, and it is size. And the biggest centralisation reform of all of them is the community reform. The aim is a massive closure of municipalities, the centralisation of hospitals, the centralisation of schools. The Prime Minister and the government fear the people on this issue, and the Right has warned the most strongly against local referendums, because the people may have a different view than the government. But despite these strong warnings from the Prime Minister, from the Right and from the entire government, up to 200 municipalities now have local referendums – locally you will listen, locally you do not fear the people. My question to the Prime Minister is: Can the Prime Minister here and now clarify that she will respect the results of democratic, local referendums?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e316	It is the local government that announces referendums, it is the local government that concludes in the process we have set up – whether or not they will apply for a merger of the municipalities on the basis of the process they themselves have had. So the referendums give advice to the local government, and then the local government makes decisions based on it. I have great respect for referendums, I have great respect for the people. I also have tremendous respect for local elected representatives, who, on the basis of the advice they receive, will make an assessment of this, and then we will evaluate the applications that come in connection with it. Then I have an opening, which I understand is quite a large majority in the Stortinget because through the treatment that Stortinget has had in the past: if it becomes yes in several municipalities and it becomes no in a municipality, which then prevents you from getting to the municipal merger – yes, it is open so that you can use coercion. And then the question is, is it democracy if the majority wants a merger, but a minority – because they have a majority in a municipality – blocks it? I then feel that Stortinget has agreed that one should be able to cut through. But besides that, I think we should respect referendums, but also local governments and elected representatives who have this mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e323	It is absolutely incredible that the government will not soon be able to say clearly: of course, we must respect local decisions. Prime Minister Erna Solberg is being heard as a true fog prince on the issue of municipal mergers. It's about making the most of it, it's about making the most of it locally, because to the seventh and last, the great state with the government in the head can come up with the obsessive. So I repeat the question. When one has had a local referendum and local debate, and the local government has listened to the referendum and said no – the people said no, therefore we respect the people in the local government, then we also say no, we want to continue to have hospitals and schools close to people – can the local people and the people in the municipality rely on the government to see that those who live locally know better than those who sit in a prime minister's office in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e328	If you decide locally not to have a municipality association, there will be no application to the government for that municipality association, and what is in today's municipal reform is a voluntary line based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e333	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e337	The Prime Minister is not very ready. In her first answer she said that it was open to coercion, and in her second answer she said that there should be a voluntary line on the ground. But the government has given the statesmen a central task in the follow-up to the municipal reform, and some of the statesmen seem to be entering into the task with such zeal that one would think it was state bureaucrats who were going to carry out this reform, and not municipal governments and local processes. During the summer, the county councillors will make their recommendations on municipal structure in their own county, and then the question will be how the government intends to ensure that the county councillors respect the local process, whether it is. when the Right Municipality of Herey on Sunnmøre says no, or when it is said no in local referendums. So the question is, is there government bureaucrats or is there local commitment and volunteering that will govern this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e344	We are based on the reform that has been dealt with in Stortinget. It has a voluntary basis, and there has been a process of deadline expiring in June in order to apply for municipal mergers. Then we'll come back to the Storting after that, based also on what the statesmen do, and then we can take this discussion about where we stand, where we are. The government has not concluded on anything other than what is now Storting's decision so far. That is why we have said that we want to see where we stand when it comes to providing good services to the population, ensuring good land-use planning, ensuring competence for the weakest. All of these things have to be included, and that's my reason why we need a different municipal structure in the years to come. I believe that I speak clearly and clearly, without there being any greater problems than what I have now quoted in relation to coercion, that is what the Stortinget has actually said in comments, and that is what is stated in the programme on which the Workers' Party has been elected, for example. I remind you that we have less binding program formulations on community mergers in the Right than there are quite a number of other parties on the Stortinget elections in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e351	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e354	The Workers' Party provides real voluntary support for municipal mergers. In many places, processes are in progress to look at community mergers, and in many places there will be referendums, as has been said. The working party believes that it is good that this is decided locally. What is not good is that it is still unclear which tasks the municipalities will have in the years to come. The task report provided many investigations, and these have not been concluded. Nor can the municipalities know what the municipal income system will look like when they are asked for advice from their citizens. This, in turn, may lead to decisions being made on an uncertain basis. Despite the fact that the government itself has not been able to clarify two such key elements, you are therefore demanding answers from the municipalities in the summer. The municipalities that want to continue good processes a little longer have a clear rejection from the municipal minister – carrots expire on the date of 1 July this year. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have good processes and that they continue. Why can't the government support such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e359	I can tell you about my experience. We had good processes for years, and there was clarity in which carrots were supposed to be. Then the Workers' Party came into government and took away the carrots, and then the process stopped. That's what happened in 2005. At that time, very many municipalities had a very long process, and had many discussions. That's why they also got reaction from the workers' party people, among other things. up in the Gudbrand valley, which was then in a process that they had to stop, because the framework conditions had changed because we got a red-green government at the time, and because the Workers' Party had the Center Party get a say in these areas. I believe that deadlines are important, because if not, we will take it out and not make decisions. And then we kind of can't sum up. This is quite arduous processes also for Kommune-Norway to stand in, and we spend a lot of time and resources on it. Then we must also have deadlines for that. We change the income system at an uneven time. There have been many revisions of the income system, and there will never be a hundred percent certainty as to what the income system will be like in ten to fifteen years. I think we have to include changes. There have been some changes in the income system of almost every government that has been in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e368	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e371	We have concluded a historic climate agreement in Paris, where we set ambitious targets that we might be able to reach only 1.5 degree rise in temperature. There is also no doubt about where we're really going – well, we're going to a zero-emission target. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that in order to achieve the global emission targets of 2 degrees, we need to cut 40-70 pst. by 2050. The left has recorded that when a proposal for a new transport plan is presented, the levels have changed slightly from what they have had in the past, and have seen relatively – compared to what they have previously presented – quite ambitious targets: greenhouse gas emissions are going down by 50 pst. by 2030, there is a strong commitment to zero-emission technology, an urban policy that requires the uptake of growth into collective, bicycle and gangways, and there is an increased use of biofuels. By 2040, we think that we might increase the population of Norway by 1.2 million, and many of them want to live in cities. If we're going to be able to achieve the goals set by the trade unions, we're running out of time. The left is very happy that what is laid out as a subject base has such ambitious objectives, seas around Sweden, if we compare with them, they believe they should have zero emissions by 2030. Climate has become an important part of the national transport plan, and now the Prime Minister will do the job. How will the Prime Minister use NTP to achieve the ambitious climate goals that we have set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e382	It's not like the different tradesmen come up with this because they've figured it out on their own. This is because the government gave them a mandate to do this in the investigation – in order for us to achieve the objectives we had set in the climate agreement, and for us to make arrangements to make those objectives visible. It is not that we are waiting for all agreements with the EU, as someone in this debate believes. We're working on a schedule in all of the areas where we know we need to bring down the emissions. Outside the quota sector, there are, in particular, two sectors in Norway that have something in particular to do with emissions. It's transport, and it's agriculture. Agriculture itself is a debate. We also need food in the future, I agree, but we need a strategy to bring down some of the emissions in the agricultural sector as well. That means that very much is within transport, and that's why we're going to have this as a very heavy perspective. It's a general perspective, but we're going to work on the development of the national transport plan. That is why we gave this mandate. We gave it so that we would have a decision base to implement it, and we believe that it is possible to achieve it. I am more optimistic now, based on what one has come up with, than what I might have been before, because I see that it is a more realistic goal we have now set ourselves to help implement a large cut in the emissions from the transport sector. We work the same way in other sectors where we're going to contribute. In some places we need help from more technology and from newer technologies. That's why we're very happy that we're getting investments in that kind of technology right now – we see it growing. And that's why I'm pleased with the similarities we've had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which have contributed to a clear prioritisation to create the market for different fuel forms. But it takes some time to get all of these things in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e393	It was a very good transition, for 65 pst. of all emissions, passenger and goods cars are the ones that are responsible for in the transport sector. Based on the objectives set by the trade unions, new private cars and urban buses shall be emission-free by 2025 and by 2030 also 50 pst. of all heavy goods vehicles shall be emission-free. Then, tax differentiation and subsidisation of low- and zero-emission vehicles are very important – both that we continue it and that we develop it further. Then there's a question the Prime Minister might be asking that the Left should ask: does she agree with us that we need to use the green tax change to make fossil fuel cheaper and zero-emission fuel cheaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e400	Of course, I agree with that principle. It's a principle we also put into today's charging system. So maybe there'll be a bigger discussion about how fast, how fast and how much to do there. Today we have great advantages from electric cars, which have helped us to create a market over time for electric cars in Norway. We are now also creating a separate national market for biofuels, and on the air side we are differentiating the landing fee associated with it. Then we are in the discussion about the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission and what will be the most important questions. I don't think I want to use the Questionnaire to pre-conclusion something we're sitting in negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but we have it as one of the things the government budget will bring with us next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e407	It opens for follow-up questions - first Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e411	From car to ship: tomorrow the Left will present proposals on zero and low-emission ships. Although domestic shipping represents only 9 pst. of total Norwegian emissions, the NOx and SOx figures are 34 pst respectively. and 25 pst. Thus, shipping constitutes both a local and a global source of emissions. The advantages of electric cars have shown that politicians can speed up a green transition for the automotive industry. We can do the same for ships. It is recommended that the structure of the fees should be set up in such a way that environmentally friendly solutions always pay off. Building more zero and low-emission ships will both modernise, reduce emissions and also boost employment – good countercyclical policies. My question to the Prime Minister is: What kind of action will the Prime Minister promote so that it pays to build and use both environmentally friendly ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e424	Norway is really on the world front for more environmentally friendly ships. The experience and impact of the NOx Fund have made it possible to have both a levy and a fund that contributes to investment, and in particular shipping is among the things that have really benefited from it. That's why we've got a lot more ships going on LNG, which have the opportunity to do that. A challenge for international shipping is, of course, fuel-requiring infrastructure, but it is also something we work with international organisations and the EU to ensure that they also see that they need that type of infrastructure to get more of international shipping on top of others. What we're looking at is the tendering requirements in the areas where public questions are asked. We have already contributed to it in some of the tenders that are out. That's one of the ways we can do it. Within the maritime strategy, we also have measures that we are now following up on green shipping. There are several areas we can do more, but it's important to remember that it takes a little bit of time to rebuild to be able to use another type of fuel for parts of shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e436	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e439	Former climate minister Tine Sundtoft said after the signing of the Paris agreement that dramatic changes are needed in the transport sector to achieve the ambitious objectives that are at stake. And I am pleased that the Prime Minister acknowledges that the recording that has now come from the trade unions is in line with the order that the government has placed, including in the climate field. So then I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Is it true that the Prime Minister believes that the proposals for action in the transport sector recommended by the trade unions, in line with the government’s order, are ambitious and powerful enough – or ‘dramatic’ to use Sundtoft’s words – to meet the commitments and objectives we have? The second is that the Workers' Party made proposals that were very similar to this, earlier in ours. Can we expect support from the government parties for the proposals that are now under discussion in Stortinget, which are in line with the recommendations of the trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e446	We're now working on the review of the floors' proposals, and it's clear that it's demanding, and there's a lot of counting to do. When we see the reactions at the national transport level, there's a little less focus around the counties on what's inside the plan, and a little more focus on what wasn't included in the plan. And that's a bit of the challenge in the future, because it's clear that part of what's in the plan means that environmental action needs to be prioritised more than some other projects around the country. The final assessment will be made by the government, but they have delivered an order that we gave. In the overall planning, we will be able to achieve the goals we have set in the climate agreement, and they have delivered on that. We have said that we should implement the climate agreement, and it is quite natural that it lies as a framework condition for the government's national transport plan. I cannot à la carte say that we are going to support all the Labour Party's proposals that they have put forward in the Stortinget. A great many of the proposals are in areas where the government is already well under way. We are in favour of the policy we are in favour of, and then we will vote for the things we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e455	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e458	Yesterday several media reported what they called ‘a totally insane temperature increase’ in the northern regions in February, a temperature increase that surprises and worries climate researchers. This goes into the sequence that it's urgent. The transport sector accounts for one third of emissions and needs to be significantly reduced in order to achieve the climate objectives. We have a capable Minister of Transport who is offensive and gets speedy on many processes. The question is then: can we expect him to be active enough on the most important thing, namely green transport conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e465	I see the Minister of Transport as very concerned that we are going to achieve our objectives also within the climate challenges, and that proposal – in any case – presented by the government will be the government's overall proposal. It is not that we have compartmentalized the government so that the individual councils have their own responsibility – the whole government has a responsibility. But this government has as its starting point that we need to strengthen the climate agreement. We've come to the Storting with goals of how we're going to make changes, and what goals we're going to have, with 40 pst. Cut our emissions towards 2030. We have got in touch with the Stortinget and a model that we are going to implement together with the European Union on the part that is not subject to quota. But in this area, we have also always said that we have to take a great deal of credit at home, and it is in particular the transport sector that we have to do something about. And what I think we should say, essentially, is that it actually looks like it's possible to do it with what's put forward from the floors now. It actually gives more optimism than the climate debate has ever been.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e472	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e475	I think it is quite significant right now that the climate debate and climate policy in Norway are divided and divided. The round that we've had right now shows you just a little bit of that. What we are allowed to discuss in the Stortinget on climate policy by 2030 is what the representatives are putting forward in proposals for climate policy. We're still waiting for what the government is going to come back to Stortinget with. A statement on the Paris Agreement six months after Paris is not an adequate follow-up. The question is also how long industry and business in Norway should wait before preparing for what needs to be done in the years to come, including in relation to the 2030 targets. Just because Norwegian climate follow-up is so closely linked to the EU, it is now being used as a means to push the debate on measures at home. We don't know how much we're going to cut at home, how much flexibility there's going to be, how forest is to be counted in. The question is: is it sustainable that we might have to wait until 2018 or 2019 to discuss it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e482	It is not that the government is waiting for an agreement with the EU to do anything. The debate we have now, that we have put the framework conditions for the national transport plan in order to provide a basis for decisions to be taken in order to achieve the objectives of the transport sector, is an example of our doing something else. Then we will have the national transport plan for treatment during the next spring, and then we must jointly ensure that we keep the climate tab and the emission reductions high up and deliver on those measures. On the other hand, Stortinget has agreed that the main intervention is the quota system, in the sector currently part of the quota system, and that it is the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Then we believe that we need to stimulate more in terms of environmental technologies and others – more instruments to achieve even better results. I disagree that this means that we wait and see. We work on this every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e490	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e493	I join the representative Arnstad's analysis. The Paris Agreement and the 1.5 degree target require a completely different rate of progress and a completely different extent of climate action from that the majority have been willing to discuss to date. Then I also ask myself the question: When will the government actually come up with its overall plan for how Norway will take part in this responsibility? Partly and divided to discuss different sectors and processes that progress many years in time, is one thing, but what we need is a common, national project to achieve the 1.5 degree goal. When is the government going to come up with a new, binding climate plan that the Storting can discuss and adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e498	The size has made a choice, and that is that we should have implementation with the EU, also in the non-quota sector. The framework conditions will then have to be clear, and the framework conditions will be clarified during the next year in the EU. Creating a comprehensive plan for how to implement it without knowing anything about our framework conditions, about what mechanisms are going to be, in my opinion, will be challenging. That's why we're working on achieving the targets for the different sectors, because we're constantly going to go further to get smaller emissions. The fact that we have to choose this model and want to have an entirely national implementation is, in my view, all right – it is legitimate to have a different strategy. But now Stortinget has chosen a strategy, and then we actually have to follow that strategy. But that doesn't mean we don't do anything. We do something every day attached to this. Therefore, the government contributes more money to many of the environmental technology and climate technology funds, we contribute to ensuring better framework conditions, and not least we are now working with the national transport plan for the sector that is the largest sector from which we need to reduce emissions, except the quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e505	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e508	What characterises, above all, Norwegian climate policy remains unimplemented objectives. That is why, in normal question time, I am going to ask the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment what progress is on the most important instrument in that context, namely the follow-up to the Stortinge decision on a climate law, a climate law that should oblige the government to implement the cuts that have been adopted. But in the meantime, as several representatives have pointed out, we are in a situation in which we have signed an agreement in Paris which is extremely much more ambitious than the objectives we are operating with today, and the question, in a new version, is: Will the government take the initiative for a new settlement in the United Kingdom that actually underpins the climate agreement in Paris and its new ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e513	Once we have put the framework conditions in place in relation to the EU, we will come to the Stortinget, of course, with how we will implement it. On the way there, we have to do a lot of actions that are the basis for getting the results, among other things. through a national transport plan, but also in very many other areas. Then we will also have a broad discussion about whether there is a basis for a new and reinforced settlement. We'll have to discuss that when we get that far. But we have a great deal to say about the fact that, together with the European Union, we are going to implement these 40 percent cuts. Then it is important to remember that the Paris Agreement contains mechanisms that we have fought for, namely reassessment of how far we have come, and strengthening the objectives. That means that after five years of the agreement we actually have to meet. There will be room to see if Norway can tighten even more to reach even more with other countries. It's a dynamic process that we've created for the whole world. But first we have to be able to achieve the goals we agreed on last year. It's going to be a cool job, but it's going to be brighter times to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e520	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e523	This government is pursuing a very targeted policy of distribution. It's targeted tax cuts that make sure that those who have the very best in Norwegian society get even better and get even richer. And it's targeted cuts that hit groups that are among those that have the least in Norwegian society. This applies, for example: children of disabled persons, who become poorer when cut in the child supplement. And in the case of low-age pensioners, who are hit by the news that came yesterday, that the government will also this year be in favour of reducing the purchasing power of pensioners. It's going to be the second year in a row of negative developments in purchasing power, and with the economic situation we're in now, there's reason to fear that it will also be real for years to come. That policy weakens the fear of the people, which is the very pillar of our universal welfare model, and it will also increase the differences in Norwegian society. For such cuts, government employees do not suffer from good gross pensions or good gross contributions. Nor will they with good contractual or individual pension schemes come out badly. They are the ones with little -- the ones who are most dependent on popular fear -- who lose, and thus increase the differences. This was supposed to prevent the government. The government bought peace last year by promising that all stones would be turned around to avoid negative purchasing power developments for several years in a row. In the proposal on social security last year, the government wrote: ‘The objective is to avoid a trend over several consecutive years in which the list of pensions is reduced in purchasing power, while at the same time increasing purchasing power for workers. In this context, one shall consider some form of smoothing mechanism.» I don't know if running from promises can be called a'smoothing mechanism', but I wonder if the Prime Minister will apologize to the pensioners for having led them behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e537	We haven't led anyone behind the light. We've conducted an investigation. We informed all the parties on the Stortinget yesterday. That investigation has shown different mechanisms. There are five different models to think differently than what we did. But we've determined that there's no time to spend extra billions now on this in a very difficult economic situation, and that the consequences and bureaucracy created by those schemes, by today's date, are not something we would recommend. But then I want to say that it is not that the purchasing power of pensioners was negative last year. Just because of them now by Mr. The light sourced tax reliefs said the Technical Calculation Committee that the pensioners maintained their purchasing power between 0.0 and 0.5. So just what we did in the tax system has helped the pensioners get out better. In addition, we have done something about the coordination of spouses, and in the agreement on the Stortinget, we gave the people with low pensions a boost, which also helps to help them. So this is not right. With a scheme where there was no tax relief, the pensioners had a small, marginal, purchasing power deterioration. But the tax reliefs had a profile that made the groups that did not get regulation of the pension actually maintained their purchasing power. The second thing that matters is that there is a generational perspective in this. I record that it is an area that SV has now said they should be involved in the policy. The only curtailment in the pension scheme for current pensioners, who have been in for a while, is this regulatory mechanism. We have created a new pension scheme for the young people of the future, who have to pay a lot, much more to get a pension level similar to what those who are going out today have paid in order to get. This is the only mechanism where today's pensioners are jointly and severally in the new pension system. Taking it away will also be a pretty big change in the balance we had, where we say that the generations after those of us who have passed 50, are going to get a lot less pension and pay more in to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e546	There is no particularly generous or courageous form of solidarity to put the responsibility for solidarity on those pensioners who have low retirement pensions, while very many others are not affected by this way of regulating, because they have good individual supplements. This is a policy that increases differences. I also want to remind Erna Solberg that not all pensioners pay taxes, and that the taxes she has distributed are distributed unevenly. There are pensioners who pay taxes, who get tax relief. It is good to have a low pension over the minimum pension and not pay taxes, and thus lose on what the Prime Minister does. Moreover, it is the case that the tax rates are divided in a disparate way. I want to ask one specific question. Last year, one government party made a very big number of them to stop this – so big that very many pensioners had great expectations. Therefore, I think it is right that we immediately get to know whether it is such that both government parties are behind the position that the government put forward last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e553	The whole government is behind what we put forward. So this is the implementation of the pension agreement. The question of making deviations in the pension agreement is quite a bit. I understand that SV has signed out of it, even though they have participated in this in several rounds through their government participation. I respect the fact that you were against the pension agreement as such when it was concluded in the first round, but in all subsequent rounds you have been involved. This means that the SV must now be honest that they have left out of the pension agreement, that they do not support those principles, and that they believe the next generation, the youth today, will have an even greater burden in the future, and that the generation perspective they themselves have raised as an important commitment to the future SV, died here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e559	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e562	I wonder how it may be that there is never time to spend billions – as the Prime Minister says – on those who have the lowest benefits, while every year there is time to spend billions on large tax cuts for those who have the most in society. I think it was a good transition of the Prime Minister to talk about the youth today and to put a burden on them. It's an exercise the government has good experience with, because it's not just the pensioners with at least the money that's hit by the government, it's also the families with at least money. Now the cuts in the child supplement for disabled dependants have come into force. That means that hundreds of families get big, big cut in their performances. How can it be that there are always those who have the least, who are called for the most solidarity by the Prime Minister and the Government, while those with the highest pension, those with the highest wage, and those with the highest wealth have been distributed billions of billions in tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e571	Our tax reliefs had a profile for the current year that helps those with the lowest income get tax reliefs higher than those with higher employee income. It's the structure of what's decided on in the Biggest for next year, just for those with low income. Then I know that we're trailers of the line of work. That is why the Stortinget decided that we would make changes which meant that you would not be paid more in sum of the disability and child benefit than you would previously have in work because this would lead to negative incentives to work part-time and have that connection. The biggest poverty challenge we have is a lack of links with the labour market – it is the biggest. Too many in our society, we need better incentives to get people back to work. Creating thresholds for people returning to work poses great challenges — including greater and lasting poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e578	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e581	As the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen had in mind, the children’s supplement is an example of the cut-off of weak groups, and there are many such examples. Another group that has been mentioned earlier today are the unemployed. There the government has found that they can take over 1 billion. directly from the economy of the unemployed by cutting the holiday allowance supplement. Those who work in a company that goes bankrupt have a shorter warranty period to get paid. In the case of tax relief, the government believes that someone should pay more tax, and it is those who lose the job and receive termination benefits. So it's clear, systematically, that those who have the least are to be inspired by getting less, while those who have much are to be inspired by getting more. This obviously leads to greater differences in Norwegian society. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e588	I am very pleased that we are contributing to the conversion of the Norwegian economy to create new jobs in the future. We help to make changes to the tax system that help those with the lowest income get lower taxes, and it more motivates work that we contribute to it. With regard to the holiday money supplement, it is such that it is taken for those who come back to work. This means that you do not get any extra vacation money, because you have been unemployed when you are back to work. I think that's fair. If you have not been to work before, but have been free for a while and have not received any leave money, you will not receive any holiday money when you go to work. We've thought that logically and correctly. And then it's like, in between, you have to make some tightenings and changes to make room for the big bets. We have efforts to do better for families with children, and we have differentiated the payment for kindergartens – which the Labour Party would not do when they put in government – so that those with the lowest income get access to kindergartens at a lower price than before, and we have done more on activities for poor children, so I am proud that in many areas we have contributed to a better social profile for the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e597	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e600	I listened carefully, and at last the Prime Minister was unable to sue for a little attack on SV because SV was against the pension agreement, but in the government voted for it in Stortinget after they realized that in government negotiations they did not get along with change. This is the usual parliamentary practice. It was probably demanding for SV, but I have to say that there is respect for doing it that way instead of the way this government did it last year, a way that I would like the Prime Minister to clarify whether the government intends to do it this year. Is it the case that the Prime Minister will also this year allow the Group of the Progressive Democrats to vote against this proposal in the Stortinget, and is it glaring that we, the others behind the conciliation, are going to save the government parties and the government of the Stortinget? Will the Prime Minister allow this to happen this year? And if she's going to allow it, maybe she should have subdued her attack on the SW a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e607	I said that I respected that SV was against, and that they had been in government for, but when you go back again and are opposed, I have pointed out the generational perspective that SV usually talks about, and that's what my attack on SV was about -- that they're talking about a generational perspective, maybe the greatest measurement parameter on this, and then they don't prioritise today's young people through the priorities they're doing. So I would say that my starting point is that the government parties have committed themselves through the Sundvolden platform. The health platform is very clear and clear, and the similarities we have entered into are the basis for government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e614	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e617	The working party is the guarantor that Norwegian fishing resources will also be jointly consulted in the future. As with the hydropower, oil and gas, we want to fence around the national ownership of fish resources. The fish must create activity and jobs in coastal communities, and we will stand up to the three obligations: universality, processing obligations and duty of activity. The Marine Resource Law, the Participating Law and the Fisheries Act are the basis for Norwegian fisheries policy, and the Workers' Party will oppose any attempt to enforce these laws. The government has tried to distance itself from the fact that fish resources belong to the community, for example. changes in participant law, universal service obligations, more on-board production and the reintroduction of eternal allowances. In the north, exemptions from the activity requirement of the Participant Act were made; the industry was given fishing quotas in exchange for the fish to be delivered to designated farms on land. Social contracts were concluded with fisheries-dependent coastal communities. These agreements will now be broken by the government. In the maritime industry communication, the government actually removes all three universal obligations and opens up the possibility that fish will no longer be delivered in the agreed community, but to a region, i.e. the county, despite the fact that the message shows that there is little purchase of universal fish in the regions as well. How will the Minister of State explain to local communities and those working in the fishing industry in the north that their workplaces disappear and that contracts concluded are no longer valid?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e631	I visited many coastal communities in Finland in 2002 during the major crisis, visited the many places and the many jobs that had been stopped. It was mainly due to a lack of profitability. A fundamental principle of our fisheries policy is that we must ensure balance, that it is profitable at all levels of the fisheries policy. It's not that we can regulate ourselves to profitability, it actually has to be based on being able to operate on the market, being able to generate a profit. That is why – in our opinion – the danger of the Labour Party's policy is that we will experience that the market determines, that we will have bankruptcy, that we will have companies that can't operate any more, and then we will have a situation where the jobs are lost, and perhaps we will end up doing it more unprofitably in more communities than if we manage to strengthen it. Our background for the regionalisation of universal service is that we actually want to strengthen the drive and drive in the different regions so that not everyone gets weaker. That's kind of the base of it. That's because we want these jobs, because we think it's possible, but we don't think political decisions create that profitability and that security for those jobs. In fact, the political decisions must follow the developments we have in these areas, which make it profitable to do so. Therefore, it is precisely that we do not remove universal service, but we regionalise it so that we contribute to the settlement in the districts. In a situation where all the links on land, all the points of delivery, become less and less profitable, jobs become more and more uncertain, and that is the danger of the policies of the Workers' Party, even over time. Then we're back to what I think was a dramatic vision in Finnmark in 2002, where the activity was in place after place, and I don't think we should come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e638	2002 has been relatively long since, and I would like to recommend a new trip. Regionalising the universal service of the Department itself does not work. Exit from the obligation to produce and exit the activity — via a commission — is, in substance, a liquidation. There are very many engaged people around the coast fighting for the existence of their communities. These engaged persons and the environment have been called dark men and dark forces by the Minister of Fisheries. I quote from Evening Post on February 20, this year: «We have some dark counterpowers that have existed for a long time. Which has only one agenda, which is to tell you, ‘This is going straight west’. And on the other hand, ‘There are politicians, professors, institutions, they are in our universities and in our academia.’ Does the Prime Minister Per Sandberg share his view that commitment and critical voices related to developments in the fisheries policy represent dark forces that need to be countered?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e655	I can't give an interpretation of all the dark forces and counterpowers, but it's counterpowers against part of the fishing industry and the seafood industry. I see it, for example. within the farming industry around – I see posts, I see a lot that doesn’t take into account the great value creation there is. So every society always tolerates criticism, but we have to bear in mind that one also points out that the sum of some of the critical voices is what we will eventually live on in Norway, if not to process the seafood, to have a farming industry and other along our coasts, is one of the livelihoods. However, I cannot agree with what framework or other that the Minister for Fisheries has talked about in this respect, but it must be allowed to point out that there are people who are drawing a scare image of, for example, today. The farming industry, which I believe is not related to the great value creation they represent in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e660	There will be follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e663	What is happening now is that the government is breaking the long lines and predictability of Norwegian fisheries management by challenging the basic laws of the industry, which are the participant law and the Fish Sale Act, and now it is all the more about the universality of trawls, which the government will actually remove through the proposals promoted in the maritime food notification. Onshore profitability depends on the landing of the fish. Therefore, probably, the Progress Party also went to the elections that they would tighten up and have more universal obligations, and therefore the three northernmost parties of the Progress Party have opposed the government's proposal. Then my question is: why does the government propose the opposite of what the Advance Party has promised the voters? Is it because the Progress Party has abandoned its electoral commitments, or is it because the Prime Minister agrees with former Minister of State Erna Solberg, when she visited Finnmark during the 2002 fisheries crisis, that Finnmarks have to find something else to do with than fishing? Or is it that the government will turn on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e672	I think the Finnmarks have been very good at finding out a lot more since 2002. The tourism industry is now bigger than both agriculture and fish in the county, so the advice I gave in 2002 was obviously a very good advice, and the Finnish fields have embraced it and really done something about it. Finnmark is today a large industrial area, it is a major activity related to oil and gas, there are bright times compared to what it has been in the past. In this way, the Finnish mark-ups have done a great job since 2002. However, fish will be an important part of Finnmark’s nutritional basis in the years to come. That is why we are not proposing to remove universal service, but we are proposing to regionalise it. This means that it will still go to Finnmark, but that means you get profitability in some of the places where more people are struggling with poor profitability today. This means that there will be jobs related to this. That's why we say that sometimes we have to modernise – when the world around us changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e679	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e682	There's a lot of commitment all over the coast to make sure that our fish contribute to living communities. It is today three months since the Minister for Fisheries was appointed. The exercise he's practiced the most is having a discussion with some fictional dark forces, which it's a little hard to figure out who really is. The committee was in the West Pole and Lofoten. There we met rapporteurs from many parties, including the Right, who warned against the policy that the government has adopted in the maritime food industry communication. So my question is simply: does the Prime Minister share the view that those who believe that the government's response is not the right policy for the coastal communities deserve the term 'dark forces'?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e691	I do not believe that the Minister for Fisheries believes that anyone who has a different policy than himself or the government is a dark man. On the other hand, some people tend to talk down on the industries that contribute to value creation, which are important and important for Norway. They also have to endure having discussions about their positions, for Norway will also have to live on in the future. I think that fish – the seafood industry – is one of the big things we can have, if we manage the environmental balance, if we manage to ensure that we have robustness and profitability enough in the industry, so that we can cultivate the market opportunities we have for the very profitable parts. Then we actually have to say that some structural changes are going to be. When we've been busy doing something about the processing obligation, it's because it actually contributes to less profitability now. If the price is higher if it's unprocessed than if it's processed, you might want to secure the jobs by making sure that what you're doing is profitable and selling at the best price.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e700	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e703	I came from Lofoten last night, where I had meetings with fishing companies such as calls on the Minister for Fisheries, who has not arrived, despite repeated invitations. Both the Minister for Fisheries and the Prime Minister should leave, because the analysis provided by the Prime Minister is not up-to-date. The picture along the coast is quite different from that in 2002. When the companies I met in Lofoten on Monday have to permit in parts of the year, the reason – the same as several companies along the Finnmark coast – is not lack of profitability or lack of markets, but lack of raw material. The government's policy will reinforce the problem of getting raw materials to land. One of the reasons is that the trawlers do not keep their social contract related to delivery. Therefore, we need to think anew to secure raw material for profitable businesses. We should move quotas from trawl to coast, and we should do the opposite of what the government puts up to, that is tightening the universal obligation instead of weakening it. The question is then: does the Prime Minister really think that there is a lack of profitability that is the problem for these companies, or does she see the problem of missing raw material? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e713	Now we have to keep time in the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e716	If you distribute a certain amount of raw material to many, rather than to a few, it contributes to a lower profitability for everyone. Therefore, regionalisation of universal service will allow more robust units, more profitability, more security for the job. That is what we are proposing. But if you have a lack of raw material in the structure you have today, it's most natural that you collect it so that you have profitability, have the opportunity to be predictable with those you have a contract with, and can deliver more regularly to the market you're going to deliver to. We know that the price is also about where you are in the market, and who you can deliver to. If there's a very high degree of instability in those deliveries, you get a lower price. All of this is one of the reasons why we, for example, make the cod hotels that we are now doing in order to take advantage of the price available in the market. That's one of the reasons we've added to more regionalisation, but it's regionalization and not liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e723	Rasmus Hansson – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e726	The part of the fishing fleet called the coastal fleet is more dependent on local delivery points and, at the same time, more dependent on the economy of the delivery points in order to make its share of the economy go around. The supply of resources from the sea fishing fleet is a very crucial part of that picture. Now there is an interesting discussion about whether this is a proposal that will also weaken universal service, but at least we agree that regionalisation or centralisation of universal service is within the scope of the proposal. What does the government think will be the impact on the coastal fleet and the coastal fleet economy of the proposals presented in the communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e733	The biggest challenge for the coastal fleet will always be that you have to shut down the receptions, or that they stand because there are not enough supplies for them. Therefore, I believe that it is predictable for the coastal fleet to ensure that there is profitability in the facilities on land. Then I want to say that it's not a centralization. These fishing receivers are not all located in central locations. In that case, there is a strengthening of some outlying municipalities in relation to other outlying municipalities, that's what it is. And it ensures that not both municipalities are weakened in that case and that this is ensured. But centralization isn't about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e740	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e752	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Ola Elvesuen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy, who will direct him. Question 7, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. Question 8, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e769	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the draft National Transport Plan from the etchings, Ahusbanen, also called the Rome Railway, has not been mentioned. Since this fall of 2014, the Council of State has on several occasions said that the government is in favour of the Ahus Railway, and that they will finance it with 50 p.m. For example, he said to Akers Avis on 14 August 2015: ‘We went to the elections to build a path for Ahus and Fornebu, and that’s what we’re going to deliver.’ In the meantime, how has the Council of State followed this up with its offices, and what does the Council of State think this has been omitted from the draft NTP?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e781	I think most people know that what has been presented from the transport modes is their professional assessment. In that it is that we have not yet begun the political process. It would be wrong for me to go into their professional approach and dictate which projects they should submit. Then there had been no sense that they had a professional approach. In the year that we have ahead of us now, my colleagues and I are going to travel around the country and the beach to pick up recordings, views and opinions from most people, businesses and politicians about what we should prioritise in different parts of the country. We've been very concerned that we're going to help cities take more of the traffic growth with collective travel equipment. That's why we've said in the government platform we're now running, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, that the state should take half of the cost of investing in large infrastructure on the collective side. We are already in the process of delivering, by sharing costs like Oslo and Akershus, for example. has planned the Fornebuban. This is a far more offensive approach than that underlying the national transport plan. In the national transport plan, it said that the state can contribute – it did not say that the state should contribute to such things – and we have therefore said that the state should contribute and that it should contribute 50 pst. It gives predictability, which in this situation is very important to the large city councils, precisely to be able to venture on the great billions of lifts that this expansion represents. I also remind you that in the negotiations on an urban environment agreement with Oslo we have said that some of the things we are going to negotiate, including: is the Fornebubanen, the T-Bahn and the Ahusbanen. The government has always assumed that the Ahusban is one of the relevant projects to be worked on. I think it is very good that the representative Bøhler shows interest in the Ahusban. I remind you that in the current National Transport Plan, the Ahus Railway is not mentioned in one word by the Red-Green Government. Then that project was not important enough to be mentioned at all by name in the plan. So there was no plan from Bøhler's party to do anything about that project over the next ten years. I think that is too passive, and that is why we have said that it is an important project that we are raising. But now there is a concept selection investigation – KVU Oslo-Navet – where this is located. We're going to negotiate Oslopackak 3 this spring. We work with the National Transport Plan, which is why we will work closely with the Road Directorate, the Railway Agency, the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County to see which projects a local authority believes are the most important priorities. When the metro tunnel is inside, which was also not prioritised by the Workers' Party when the Workers' Party crashed, it is because there has been a wide cross-political consensus that it was worth mentioning in the subject matter, while the Ahus Railway has been more disunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e794	I thank you for your answer. The backdrop here is that there was an uncertainty in the autumn of 2014 when the action plan for collective transport from the new government came – then I am not talking about the red-green government, but the current government – and where the Ahusban was not mentioned. In a letter from political leadership in the Ministry of Transport dated 19 September 2014, it was said that it was not relevant to look at the Aarhus Railway until after 2023–2024. Then the council went out and was in my opinion good, because he established that the Ahusban was to be built. He went out into the Roman magazine and in Aker's newspaper on several occasions, which I have also quoted in the question. My question is whether there is no communication with the authorities during such a long period as from 2014 to today, where, without dictating, the authorities are asked to address such an important issue as whether the Ahus Railway should be included in the national transport plan and mentioned there. There is a difference between instruction and contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e801	Just, there is a difference between instruction and contact, but now I tried to say that the political part of this work is being started now. It was launched on 29 February at the time of the submission of the plans. It is not a national transport plan that has now been submitted from the trade unions. That's their professional basis. Then we're going to spend a year dealing with it politically, and then we're going to put it forward. Then it will be relevant to criticise us for the road project and railway project that the Workers' Party believes should be there, but where we like to prioritise differently. I think it's a little early to advance an outcome in that area. When I get such critical questions from representative Bohemia about what was inside and not inside 2104, I would like to remind you that the transport modes laid their groundwork in the national transport plan. Then we have provided additional messages after we took over the control. So when the representative Bøhler is dissatisfied with the fact that the Ahusban was not mentioned in 2014, it is because it was not mentioned at all by the red-green government in the grounds they provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e808	Now I have to remind the Council of State that what I referred to was the current government's action plan on public transport. What you mentioned there in 2014, you can't blame the red-green government for. It is a political document from the current government. But that's the past. What I'm concerned about is that when the Council of State was so clear at the time, in 2014, it would be an advantage if he had made sure that the Ahusban got into the professional base, because it's easier to do thorough political treatment if you get a professional basis, professional judgements, without dictate anything. I stress that the Ahus Railway is very crucial for the government's and Stortinget's goal of getting a link between housing construction in the capital and collective development. This is the area where most dwellings are built, and where we have the greatest opportunity to build many dwellings in an environmentally friendly way, by establishing a link between the construction of the Ahusban and the large new residential buildings that are now regulated in Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e815	The arguments put forward by the representative, Mr Bøhler, at the end of the day are precisely the reason why we, on the part of the government, have raised the Ahusban. Then I remind you that the first draft of the action plan for public transport, to which the representative of Bøhler refers, was promoted under the red-green government. Then today's government upgraded it and made it more offensive before it was presented. The draft that we took from the red-green government at the government change did not have Ahusbanen in either. That's why I think it's very exciting when the Workers' Party in the opposition becomes more offensive than they were when they themselves ran. I hope that we can also see when we are dealing with the National Transport Plan, that the Workers' Party extends beyond what they were willing to do when they have a Right Party Government and a Left Christian People's Party majority. In the subject of the national transport plan available, I remind you that there are many projects there that were not mentioned when the red-green ones crashed. That is why there is also a metro tunnel, a railway tunnel under Oslo and other long-term projects that the city has been in for a long time and that can now begin to take shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e826	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In its reply on 26 February 2016 to written question No. 647 from the representative de Ruiter, the Council of State draws a rosary picture of the situation in the Norwegian construction industry, and clearly sees no reason for concern. In the class struggle on 9 March, the Executive Director of Skanska, Ståle Rød, however, takes up several aspects of the industry, such as order entry and the possibility to ensure Norwegian competence in the construction part that builds roads and other infrastructure. Does the Council of State consider that the head of Skanska has misunderstood the situation in the sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e835	I do not believe that, and I have not drawn a pink picture, so the starting point for the question from the representative Sivertsen is not correct. What I pointed out in my answer, however, is that it is not that all contracts go to foreign entrepreneurs – and that is a purely factual description. Then I pointed out at the same time that while one in 2015 experienced that 94 pst. of the contract values of road projects, e.g., went to Norwegian contractors, were similar figures in 2013 – last year the representative Sivertsen’s party put in government – 70 pst. For 2012, estimates suggest that only half of the contract values went to Norwegian entrepreneurs. Then it's wrong, I think, to create a social debate where one says that there are fewer and fewer dollars going to Norwegian entrepreneurs, and more and more going to foreign entrepreneurs, when we actually see that development is the opposite: both the budgets and the share of money going to Norwegian entrepreneurs are increasing. It's important, because the last thing we should do is start talking about the competitiveness of Norwegian entrepreneurship towards foreign companies in a situation where we need to make sure that people stay in the industry, that people are involved and are going to join in and promise the big projects we're looking forward to. When I e.g. Meeting the construction industry in Rogaland now, they are very concerned about the situation for 2016 and maybe 2017. But they say that the reason they're so busy keeping the workforce in company today is that from 2017-2018 onwards it's going to flood with large construction projects, and then it's important that they have the competence of companies in the turbulence period we have now, and that it doesn't disappear because they lose contracts. And that's important to us. We are therefore committed to creating an entrepreneurial environment in Norway that can take on large contracts and small contracts and that can be competitive both among Norwegian companies and not least against foreign companies. That's not the same thing as saying that things are rosy. On the contrary – we see that the turbulence in the oil market has turned into Norwegian economy in a rather serious way in some states. This means that some of the people who have been employed in the construction industry are now moving more into the construction industry. They go from building dwellings and construction to building roads and railways. Thus, even if more jobs are employed in the sector, the unemployment rate in the sector is also increased because of the fact that the labour force is being pulled out of other sectors with higher unemployment. What is also important to take into account is that the contract strategies that both the Road Administration and the railway have indicated that Norwegian companies will become even more competitive in the future, because we have said that we should have stricter requirements for the use of apprentices, i.e. more offensive requirements. The Road Service and the Railway Agency will also have from 2017 a contract strategy that is better organised for total contractor prices for small and medium-sized suppliers, which will also make them more competitive and enable them to develop as a company. That means that we do a lot to make things right – but the situation is not rosy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e844	The Council of State itself signals that it is to be built more coherently and faster than before, and with this, it is more likely that the tasks will increase, as we see, for example. at Follobanen, where we have very large tenders being offered. But now, for the first time in many years, large Norwegian entrepreneurs and their partner organisations are becoming particularly concerned about the impact of economic problems on the economy, and for the first time in many years, it is reported that there is a need for permits, as several have already done. When we see that several of the major tasks in renewing and constructing infrastructure go abroad, and perhaps to companies using rents on a large scale by foreign personnel, the question is: How does the Council intend to make sure that the allocations to infrastructure result in actual tasks that will create ring-fences for the Norwegian economy, such as: increased tax receipts and more jobs locally and regionally in the areas where the major infrastructure projects are to be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e853	It is a problem that I take most seriously. Among other things, this government has not had tours abroad to sell Norwegian projects to foreign entrepreneurs. One of the last things that the last Minister of Transport, who was from the Red-Green Government, did, was travel to Leipzig for, among other things. meeting foreign entrepreneurs to sell precisely the projects that the representative Sivertsen is now offended by having gone to the foreign contractors. So we've made sure that the proportion of projects on the road is much higher than it ever was when the representative Sivertsen's party was running. Then I also mentioned at the end of my previous answer that when Vegvesenet now says that they will have more total contractor prices, they also say that there should be more total contractor prices for small and medium-sized companies, precisely those companies that are a little concerned about the situation today, but we have to make sure that they are competitive about this. Then it is true that we have had the Follobane project that deviates from this – a project that has been under planning for many years. It is difficult to divide a tunnel into many small plots, which are exactly in line with the strategy of the red-greens when it comes to foreign entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e864	It is unclear to me where the Council of State has it from the fact that the undersigned is offended by how the contracts are awarded. Stavanger Aftenblad revealed earlier this year that the government is bluffing about how billions of dollars are going to go to South West to pay for increasing unemployment, especially in the oil and gas sectors, and many believe that this is justified by the government's package of measures. So then I don't think the answer to the question is particularly reliable. Can the Council of State now confirm how many jobs have come to different parts of the country as a result of the employment package that was flagged very high last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e873	Firstly, I have now shown that the proportion of the contract crowns is increasing in the case of Norwegian contractors. I have also shown how the Road Administration and the Railway Agency work to get more apprentices, and to have more total enterprises on small and medium-sized projects, which benefit Norwegian operators in particular. With regard to the package of measures, I have written a chronicle that I hope the representative Sivertsen will read, where I point out all that Stavanger Aftenblad has chosen not to include in his list. For example, Stavanger Aftenblad chose to mention maintenance of the Dovreban as an important grip and said that the money goes to Middle Norway instead of to the West. What Stavanger Aftenblad did not mention is that one has record appropriations this year for the maintenance of Sørlandsbanen and Jærbanen. They did not mention that Vosabanen is given special maintenance. They did not mention that the State Road Administration has increased its budget by 1.5 billion. kr only in region west. They did not mention that the maintenance appropriations for road and rail have increased from 5 billion. kr under red-green government to 9 br. kr under the government of the day. It is more than the total package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e884	This question, from the representative of Ola Elvestuen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is answered by Mr Tord Lien, Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e887	Yes, it was a question to the Minister for Climate and Environment, I have to say it is a little amazing that it is the Minister for Oil and Energy who answers. In any case, the question is: ‘In the Dagsrevyen on 9 March, the High Representative, Henrik Asheim of the Right, proposed to abolish the permanent protection of some watercourses. Last year, State Council Sundtoft said to the Address Paper: «Protected watercourses form both individually and in some large natural and environmental values. The Government is committed to increasing the production of controllable power in Norway by means other than the construction of hydroelectric power plants covered by the protection plan.» Does the Council of State share this view, and can he ensure that lasting protection means that the watercourses are protected from power build-up in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e896	Why I answer the question on behalf of the government: As the representative Ola Elvestuen is well-known, the protection plans are part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I also want to tell the representative Elvesuen that I am very pleased with the considerable support and consensus there are in very many questions about renewable energy, both in terms of production and use, between the Left and the government and the government parties. As a government council you have a lot of power and influence, and there are a lot of processes you should be involved in. Right-hand programming is probably a process that I think goes most painless without me being too engaged in it. I perceive that the output from the representative Asheim was part of the just Right Program process, and he said well what he said, as being the leader of the Right Sample for the Green shift. Even though we are now in government together, I think it's a reasonable starting point for me that we have respect for each other's programming processes. The left is also not aware of driving policy development. At the national meeting last year, I believe I remember that the Left decided to facilitate the export of as much renewable energy as we are currently exporting oil and gas over the almost 15 years. If we're going to realize that, over the next eight years, we're going to have to put in place as much renewable power generation as what we've built up over the 130 years that's behind us. If it were to be solved with wind power alone, it would represent 150 000 wind turbines. I am a great renewable-enthusiast, with whom the representative Elvesuen is well known, but to get them located approx. 150 000 windmills, I'm a little uncertain whether we'd managed to achieve a 15-year time horizon. Let me say that the Stortinget decided in its wisdom more than 100 years ago that questions of protection as well as of major expansions are issues to be resolved by plenary decisions in Stortinget. There's something this government doesn't intend to challenge in any way. At the same time, both changes in weather conditions and climate change include: reduces rainfall and we know that the same climate change needs to be addressed, including: with increased renewable energy production. Among other things, it does. that, with the support of the Left, the Storting has opened up the possibility of amending the protective provisions, for example: in the Opo watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e909	Now we were in both the Left's National Meeting and other questions, but that's really not what I was asking. What I asked for was a quote from Tine Sundtoft, former Minister for Climate and Environment, and whether the Council of State agreed with that statement. But I can take a new quote from today's climate and environment minister on the same issue. He says to the NRK that ‘I do not agree that we must scrape the mantra for the time of the major power builders or that we must revise the protective plan. The plan is fixed». Then my question becomes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: Does the Minister for Oil and Energy agree that the plan should be firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e919	I initially tried to do my best to avoid getting involved in the Right Program Debate. I'll try to maintain that. The fact that we have managed to maintain a representative sample of Norwegian watercourses in their pristine state indicates good quality in the way many large-scale numbers in many generations have managed the Norwegian watercourse values, both the economic values and the natural values. At the same time, in specific cases, where significant societal benefits can be traced, such as: Opo was a good example of – with flood-proofing effects, but also with acceptable environmental impacts – concessional treatment should be open. But there is something the Stortinget has to decide, and in the case of Opo, Stortinget – with Left’s support – concluded that it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e926	When it comes to Odda, it's right that we need action against the Opovas. There are also different possibilities of flood suppression when you look at the whole landscape – you should definitely look at it much more closely. Nature itself is involved in the prevention of floods. As responsible for the protected watercourses and protection plans, the question is nevertheless – and I repeat: Does the Council of State agree that the protection plans are firm and that they should not be challenged by means of proposals for power development, and that the examples he draws up will be quite exceptional and specifically not relate to power development, but to measures relating to floods?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e933	It is the government's policy that the protection plans for watercourses should be essentially firm. As I said, it is and shows a good quality of politics and management for many generations that we have managed to preserve a representative sample of Norwegian watercourses, nature and topography in the way we have done, while building a power system that is almost exclusively based on clean, renewable power sources that must be part of the climate solution, including the energy and climate solution in the future. The fact that the protection plan should be based mainly on the fact that, in the specific cases where significant societal benefits and acceptable environmental impacts can be identified, e.g.: in the form of projects where flood protection is an element, it should be possible to open it for concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e944	The question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: ‘The Paris climate agreement means that the level of ambition in Norwegian climate policy must be stepped up dramatically. An important part of a new climate policy must become a climate law with legally binding emission targets. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy has decided that the government should submit a proposal for a climate law in time for the law to be passed during this major period. Can the State Council confirm that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has started work on developing a climate law that can ensure real emissions reductions in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e953	The short answer to the representative Hansson's question is yes. I'm going to go on with that a little bit longer answer. The Paris Agreement marks a turning point for international cooperation in the field of climate change, primarily through commitment and contribution by all countries. The two-part world that has marked the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol, where only developed countries have had commitments, has been softened. So both international law and politics give the agreement a new direction, and it represents a solid framework for future global climate action. The agreement will lead Norwegian climate policy for a long time. However, it is important to stress that the Paris Agreement itself does not oblige countries to implement the agreement in a special way. An important part of the success of the Paris Agreement, the success of the Paris Summit, is that it was the level of ambition of individual countries that drove the process. Similarly, the follow-up will require the priorities and efforts of each country. It's e.g. not a requirement under the Paris Agreement that Norway has to have a climate law with legally binding emission targets. I will also come back to the Stortinget with an oral statement on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement in the near future. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is now working on a proposal for a Norwegian Climate Act that follows up the Stortingen request decision. Denmark, Finland and the United Kingdom already have climate laws. A week ago, Sweden also came up with proposals for such legislation. The Swedish proposal is being consulted now, and we do not know what the result is, but it is interesting that Sweden too is likely to get such legislation. Our work on draft law is well under way. In line with the Storting decision, the government will provide time enough for it to be dealt with in the current ageing period. The proposal shall be published at public consultation. I look forward to returning to Stortinget after the hearing and submitting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e966	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It is, of course, quite right that the Paris Agreement does not oblige Norway to introduce a climate law, and it is equally right that countries by country should see fit to introduce such a climate law. For Norway, the particular situation is that there is something we have demonstrated with thunder and debris in Norwegian climate policy, so it is that we have lived with clear and clear targets for emissions cuts and an exceptional ability to avoid implementing these emissions cuts. That is why a climate law is needed that is legally binding in order for the government to implement the climate objectives that are adopted. Can the Council of States confirm that there is such a law with legal commitments for the implementation of adopted climate objectives that is now being worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e973	I ask for understanding that I will save the details of the bill until it is presented. But we work according to Storting's order, as among others. is the proposal to set the national climate targets and regulate appropriate management and reporting mechanisms. We look at the countries that have laws today, and we also look at the Swedish proposal, but it may be more interesting to look at the experience of those countries that already have climate laws. A law is important, but I do not think we will escape the fact that it is national policies and priorities from year to year and over time that are most crucial for achieving the objectives. But a law can be an important framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e978	The Council of State is absolutely right in that it is the practical policy that determines whether the climate objectives are being implemented, and the practical policy has therefore ensured that the climate objectives in Norway are not implemented for a long time. That is what is the purpose of a climate law, just as it is the purpose of other laws, that policies are actually implemented in practice. Then such a law, if it has the effect it will have, will have a great impact on Norwegian business and on Norwegian society. This means that there will be a great need for thorough treatment in Stortinget. Can the Council confirm that the legislative proposal will be submitted so early that it will be time for thorough treatment in the Grand Duchy during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e985	Drawing up a law requires in itself thorough preparatory work, and then it will require thorough work in the Stortinget. What Stortinget has asked for is a draft law that can be dealt with during this magnificence period, and that is what the government is working to deliver in line with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e994	‘Norwegian Nursing Association has notified the County of Telemark of critical working conditions at the Notodden Hospital. The county doctor takes a serious look at the matter and has started investigations. The Labour Inspectorate has been notified after employees have been on double and triple shifts for long periods of time. The doctors at the Notodden have reported a written concern to the management about the situation. Nearly a year ago, similar conditions were reported at the hospital in Skien. Does the Council of State consider this situation to be sustainable, and what does the Council of State do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e999	I am aware that the Norwegian Nursing Association has notified the County of Telemark of the working conditions of the Notodden Hospital. On 8 March, the Hospital Telemark sent a statement to the County in response to a request. The Hospital Telemark there explains the challenges that have arisen since the bed stop at Notodden Hospital became part of medical clinic in early 2015. Among other things, there are challenges to recruiting personnel, and there is some disease. In the case of double and triple guards, the Hospital Telemark has informed that there has been one case of triple watch and some cases of double watch due to influenza. The health undertaking is responsible for the proper organisation of work and service, and the County now assesses this matter. It is therefore not appropriate that I go further into this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1008	This is not the only thing that has been from Sjukehuset Telemark since the state council approved the development plan for Sjukehuset Telemark, which led to the closure of Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital and the transfer of patients to the Notodden and Ski. That's interesting, I think, if the Council of State looks extra closely at the development plan that he himself has approved, where patient safety and quality were some of the reasons why one made those changes. Hence, it is serious when the Health Authority is now inside both Skien and Notodden, precisely because a trick is whether patient safety is harmful. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer whether he believes that the development plan is being followed, where a basis for ensuring quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1015	I am not aware that the development plan is not being followed, but to assess whether the services and the working environment are safe is responsible for the management of the business. If others, including trustees, consider that their circumstances are not sufficiently safeguarded, have the possibility of, inter alia, to alert the County – as one has done in this case – and to have the County State’s assessment of those circumstances. Neither I nor the representative Toppe have the competence to assess whether the services of individual hospitals in the Hospital Telemark health care company are sound or not. Local management must do that, along with the employees. To the extent that there is disagreement about it, a State has as its control body.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1022	I think it is very unacceptable when we see the contours of the fact that we have a rental at the hospital that does not take its warning seriously. It is stated in Telemarksavisa on 3 March 2016 that the trustees in the Norwegian nurses' association had to notify the County after they had repeatedly notified the guidance of the Hospital Telemark without taking the situation seriously. The Council of State is right that neither I nor the Council of State can go in and define when the patient treatment has failed, but we are responsible for the fact that there is a system out there that takes them seriously and that ensures that patient safety is taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1029	I fully agree that I have a responsibility for having a system that takes patient safety and quality seriously. We have that through the established systems that we have, which are very clear on where responsibility for responsibility lies, which is clear on what are the right mechanisms to use in terms of both notification and warning, and in terms of the possibilities that employees have, if one feels that one is not taken seriously enough, to involve the County in this work. It would be wrong, I think, if I or the representative Toppe put us to judgment over the assessment on these questions. There may be cases where there are different assessments between management and trustees of a relationship. Fortunately, we have the County, which can go in and assess the issues from the outside. I think it's wise that the County Council should now do all the time the County Council has said you should look at this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1040	‘All municipalities are now required to have emergency daily places. The large municipalities have challenges in recruiting doctors in 100 %, as long as the practice does not count as a service for the specialty of general practitioners. The option with many small positions provides poor continuity, less competence and less soundness. The interaction reform was adopted in 2012. It's been a long time to get this in place. Does not the Council of State not see the urgency and the possibility of making the interaction reform work as smoothly as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1047	Adequate and appropriate competence is a prerequisite for the quality of healthcare and patient safety. It is therefore important that doctors under specialisation receive training in activities relevant to the particularity in question. It will also help to improve the recruitment of future specialists in the areas of demand. The purpose of a community 24-hour offer of immediate assistance is to avoid hospitalisation when this is not desirable or necessary in the light of a medical evaluation. Instant-help-daily services are therefore important in order to meet the objectives of the interaction reform. Some of the large municipal emergency daily places that require 100 pst. posts to meet the need have had difficulties recruiting doctors in specialisation in general medicine. The reason is that the positions do not give 100 pst. disbursement as a place of employment – according to current specialisation rules. However, training of specialists requires appropriate use of educational activities if there are changes in the allocation of tasks or the organisation of healthcare. The introduction of municipal acute daily places is an example of this. This means that service in municipal emergency daily places already counts as a service to the speciality of general medicine, if combined with general practice for a minimum of 50 pst. position. This was introduced in January 2015. For most units, this volume is sufficient. I am aware of the problem of counting for 100 pst. the position pointed out by the representative, Mr Grung. There is now a dialogue with the Health Directorate to change the rules of speciality for general medicine. The change will lead to 100 psts being given in case of increased daily community services for immediate help — with a sufficient patient base. accruals for up to two years. In addition, service time in open general practice — at least two years in 100 psts — is to be authorised as a specialist in general medicine. service — and one year of service in the specialist health service. As the representative of Grung is well-known, we are working on the conversion of specialist training for doctors. Evaluation of other changes to the training of specialists in general medical practice should be carried out in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1062	In the municipality of Bergen they now have 35 beds, and they were late to set up these places. Five games in 100 pst. The position says they will stop if it is not now counting. In Oslo, there is now a planned escalation to 73 beds. The first year had 50 pst. by medical specialists, and today they are down to 16 pst. Both Oslo and Bergen feel that they are becoming a caste ball between the directorate and the Ministry of Health and Health in order to get through so that this can be done in a significant way. It's quite right, the description that comes now, but at the same time we have in Bergen a nursing home in the Filling Valley where they get counting practices. Is it not possible, while a full review is being carried out, to grant the same derogation so that we are able to make the interaction reform more attractive, something positive, so that they get the people they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1069	I am concerned about putting in place a good code in this area, and as I said in my answer, we are now changing the legislation so that you can work in 100 pst. position also in a municipal emergency 24-hour unit and receive this count. But overall, it is important that over the five years of specialisation, one has a place of work in the various locations, so that the overall competence will be the same. I think it's a rule change that will contribute to exactly what we're both concerned with, that even the larger municipal emergency diurnal units can facilitate recruitment to 100 pst. posts. In the case of derogations, there are possibilities to apply for them. But there will then be a technical, concrete assessment that is behind such a derogation as to whether the content of the service is at a level that allows it to count as specialisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1076	Would it not have been tempting just to say ‘go’ – now is the relevant practice? The problems are so closely described as they stand today. The National Auditorate is in and critical of the interaction report, the Health Directorate is critical. And both the two municipalities are trying to lift this up, in relation to the intention of the cooperation reform, that there should be an equally good and better offer to patients than what is really the intention of the interaction reform, and in relation to what else they would get in the hospital. In the preliminary work it was assumed that the immediate help-daily places would take about 240 000 days of lying on a national basis. I can't demand that the minister have those numbers in his head, but does he know pretty much how we are today? And does he have the same ambitions for what these beds are supposed to mean when it comes to building up the competences of municipalities and getting a good interaction between the use of services in specialist health care and municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1083	We have a clear impression, as the representative is here, that the use of these beds is not at the level one would like. I think it is mostly about the fact that a good job is required to continue building confidence in this offer from the doctors, because it is the decision-makers who are essentially the ones who are going to make use of this offer. I'm also impatient, but I'm also responsible for the content and quality of education and in the offers we offer. But that's exactly why I've started a change in this area to achieve it a desire. However, simply turning down the content of the practice that a specialist in general medicine should have — for example: we realized that one did not have the experience of receiving the type of patients that came into a general practice – I do not think that would be right for patient safety and quality reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1094	This question, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1097	‘The Minister for Fisheries Per Sandberg stated in the evening post that he would take a settlement with ‘dark counter-forces’ which weaken the Norwegian fishing industry. On direct questions about who it is, he answers that there are both ‘politicians, professors, institutions, they exist in our universities and in our academia’. This is a serious attack on the academic freedom enshrined in law in Norway. Are these positions of universities and researchers in line with government's knowledge and research policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1104	The government and I have very high ambitions for the Norwegian knowledge society, and we have a focused focus on research and higher education. Of course, I haven't challenged academic freedom, and I'll never do that. Of course, I've never fucked anyone, neither professors, researchers, nor anyone else, for that matter. I and the government strongly support our research environment, especially in terms of appropriations and what goes on in marine research. I've spent two months traveling around the country and the beach, meeting our research institutions, meeting the Academy, on which we all depend. I want, I have to, and I'm going to rely on knowledge and research. There will always be a success factor in fisheries, aquaculture and finding new ways of exploiting marine resources. There will be important parts, including in the future Norwegian economy. But it is not that research is always unambiguous, and it provides everything with an answer with two lines below. We politicians must and must take the decisions and stand for them, but based on the knowledge we have gained. In this debate, we must and must resist being challenged as politicians by researchers and academics, but researchers and academics must also resist being challenged. But this debate is about something quite different. My statements to the fishing boat during my post have nothing to do with this. What I said at the annual meeting of the Fishing Boat, and which I will continue with as long as I am the Council of State, or is within the policy, is about to stop these counterclaims that only have an intention to talk down parts of the country and industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1115	This issue is not about fisheries policy, it is about research policy. The government has decided that Per Sandberg is going to come and answer. That's what I'm dealing with. My next question is: Where is the boundary between how government members can characterise researchers in the university and higher education sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1120	Actually, I don't understand the question, because I haven't characterized either institutions, research environments or anything. What I've done here is promote some reactions that have not only come during my time as the Council of State, but that have existed for a long time. Such statements and my statements were directed towards North Norway and individuals. When it comes to saying that politicians are mistreating North Norway, that politicians are raging the coast, that the last man has to turn off the light, that it is an attack on the coastal population, that it is a run of the coast, I feel quite respectfully to announce that my role as a politician and the Ombudsman is also responding to this. This is nothing new, and this is happening regardless of the perspective of North Norway. The truth is that in North Norway it's going very well, and then I think it's sad that someone is going to put a lid on the development we're seeing, and the positiveness that I experience when I travel in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1127	Then is my next question, in the light of what was now said, why the Council of State Sandberg uses terms such as ‘dark counterpowers’ and underlines that he wants to combat these on in-and-out breath, and in the same reasoning incorporates concepts such as ‘academia’ and ‘university’. This is where the core lies: why does the Council of State Sandberg mix these concepts together, if that is what he claims he does not mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1132	On the question of who this is, there is a simple answer: there are people in all environments, including politicians, but I have not yet discovered a fisherman who has done it. Within academia, within universities, everywhere -- they're everywhere, these kind of people I'm talking about, talking down. I record that it was written today in the class struggle that I have triggered a word war that my critics do their best to keep going. The representative Aasen is probably one of them. And it is clear that this has now ended up in our respected and wonderful Parliament. I also noticed that in the Fiskribladet The fisherman said the editor Øystein Hage that he wanted me to be welcome after, because this is nothing new. Then it is likely that I have started a word war that someone uses in the wrong direction. My only intention is to speak up North Norway, speak up all these amazing people who bet in North Norway and in the industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1148	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-16.ana.ud296e1163	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
