ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e51	The representatives Marianne Aasen and Jan Arild Ellingsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative of Arild Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e56	On behalf of the representatives of Anette Trettebergstuen, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Sonja Mandt and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the law on media responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e61	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e75	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e84	I am pleased that there is an overall committee which, by this crossroads, also believes that the State pension fund, and the State pension fund abroad in particular, should support under the long-term considerations of the use of our petroleum revenues and support saving to finance parts of the pension expenditure in the social security system – as it is always written in these messages, but it does not mean any less in time, it actually means more. Similarly, we are still united behind the objective of targeting the highest rate of return over time within moderate risk. Both contribute to the fairness of both the use and use of petroleum revenues from a generation perspective. Over the 20 years since the first transfers of funds were made to the Fund, there has been a broad political breakdown of investment strategies for the State pension fund abroad, strategies based on practical experience and acquired own knowledge complemented by expertise in the management of our common savings funds. In the case of SPU, at the end of 2015, the fund had a formidable market value, nearly 7500 billion. kr – an incredible amount compared to the first contribution to the fund less than a lifetime. The value of the fund shows that our nation has drawn a winning weight. It is therefore essential that our governance should bear the mark of the accountability it should place on politicians of changing parties and changing generations. Then we've come into a new phase in terms of the fund's input. It was very low in 2015 due to falling oil prices and, at the same time, the return on investment is more uncertain than ever because of the low international interest rate. The Committee shares its view on the uncertainty about future input and return from the Fund. It is likely that the entire Committee also shares a concern about what to do to compensate for these significant, but in a longer-term perspective, hopefully temporary, negative factors. The fund’s return in 2015 was higher than the reference index for shares, lower for debt securities. Unlisted property shows a higher return and environmental investment mandates a significantly lower return than the fund's total return of 2,7 pst. One of the key themes of this year’s communication and of the year’s consideration in the Committee is the issue of investment in property and in unlisted infrastructure. The Committee is united in its view that market risk in property investment should be better managed than today, and therefore endorses the recommendations of the expert group and the Bank of Norway on a new proposed risk management model, a model with operational experience and which will now be implemented in the regulation of property in the mandate. An overall committee also agrees to establish an upper framework of 7 pst. for the proportion of unlisted property, but that the management must be directed towards a lower volume because the return may be more variable than for shares and debt securities. In practice, therefore, the 7 pst.- measure will mean something about an estimated 5 pst., and when we now know that we are at the moment about approx. half, and is in a build-up period, there would be enough room. In terms of infrastructure, the vast majority of the Committee sees the regulatory risk, and not least the political risk, which may lie in infrastructure investments, including the financial risk, which may be affected by changes in framework conditions by the authorities of other countries. In addition, investments will be relatively large, visible and could quickly be brought up in the public debate in a less desirable way. Moreover, the unlisted market for infrastructure is relatively small globally, and there is a high level of investment infrastructure in listed papers, as opposed to property, where it is the reverse. Therefore, opening up unlisted infrastructure will only increase the fund’s investment opportunities to a lesser extent, in addition to the fact that unlisted infrastructure is more complex, more resource-intensive, more difficult to evaluate and cost-effective to reverse. However, a large majority of the Committee agrees that the government should continue its work on assessing unlisted infrastructure and return to the question in the next year's Fund Communication. As part of that assessment, an explanation of how different types of risk associated with different investments may be affected, assess reputational risk in particular and consider how to ensure maximum transparency in such management. This majority also believes that it would be useful to gain more experience with unlisted investment in property before moving into unlisted infrastructure. The Committee has also agreed on the new reporting requirements in the mandate for the SPU on the outcome of the strategies, not least the extension of reporting, in order to provide more comprehensive explanations of the results of the strategies, in particular those involving high costs or relatively high risks. Several measurement methods, several figures and greater transparency on reporting will be used. There is a significant public interest in this and therefore central to the fact that the government, excuse me, that reporting – not the government, it does not need to be verified – can also be verified by control environments outside the Bank of Norway. The Committee has also been concerned with the dietary value of the different investment strategies and has therefore asked for an overall assessment of the results of the different strategies and that proposals are made for any changes to the Fund Communication for 2017. As the size of the SPU and diversification in investment areas increases, of course, the complexity of management is also increasing, and the requirements for good governance structures are important. The Committee has therefore also gathered on this issue in a desire to evaluate a more liberal organisation of the SPU, so that all relevant organisational and company models can be highlighted, and has unanimously asked the government to extend the mandate of the Gedrem Committee – the sample to assess the central bank law and governance of the Bank of Norway – to include such an assessment of the SPU. The issue of closed jurisdictions has also been discussed by the Committee. The Committee has agreed that there should be maximum transparency on management and on location. It has to do with the trust of the fund. It is important that there is trust both externally and internally – among owners, politicians and everyone who assesses this. There are financial investors such as SPUs that can counteract the use of closed jurisdictions by having clear expectations of the companies in which it is invested. Therefore, the Committee considers that more knowledge is needed in this area, both in terms of the companies in which it is invested and in terms of the way the bank itself organises itself outside its borders. The Committee therefore urges the Norwegian Government to draw up an expected tax document for the companies in which it is invested. I think this is an important proposal and an important recommendation. The debate in our debate on tax havens on this issue has shown that expectations are not only needed, there is actually a need for more accurate knowledge of what they are about. The Committee has also gathered in a note to evaluate guidelines on the Fund’s investment in government bonds and asks the Government to ask the Bank of Norway to clarify the work on approving investment in government bonds, including a land risk assessment, assessment of state financial strength, transparency and accountability of the public budgetary processes of the country concerned, and not least the risks associated with illegitimate debt. It is right here to add that the Committee is quite clear in its view that any such guidelines for investment in government bonds should not lead to the Fund being seen as a foreign policy instrument. There are objective criteria that must be taken into account here, clearly and without reservation. Then it has to be added that the Social Security Fund also belongs to this message. As usual, they have a very good result and cost-effective management, and the Committee also agrees here with the proposal that investments should not now be opened up to the Fund for Social Security in unlisted infrastructure or in property. In addition to this, there are some smaller proposals, but I am convinced that the proposers themselves will present them adequately. I use the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on a matter that is not so much considered in the public debate, but which is, of course, central to the country's economy and for the budgets that we are going to make each year. This is precisely why it is important for the Storting to maintain the pace of progress and change in the conditions for the fund. It should be based on knowledge and experience when making changes. I think I would say – I allow myself to be so party-political – that if there is any place ‘change to keep’ is important, it is precisely in the management of the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e126	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on good cooperation this year and join the rapporteur's words. Once again, we have managed to gather to take important new steps in the development of the fund. That doesn't mean it's been easy. The distance along the way has been great, it has been given and taken in negotiations, but I agree with those who say that it is a great strength that we end up together today. It underlines the long-term and that one is united about the administration. I would like to extend a special thanks to the rapporteur from the Right, who has a lot of the honour that we have today to land this matter so well. This year, the oil fund is 20 years old. Tuesday this week it was 20 years since Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen transferred the first two billion to the State pension fund. The teenage years have passed. The time of massive transfers from the parents, which in this context is the Ministry of Finance, is over; now the fund will be more self-sufficient. But fortunately it is a 20-year-old who is not rigged for speed and party, we have today ahead of us. A few weeks ago, an exhibition was opened about the fund at the Norsk Oil Museum in Stavanger, and Stavanger Aftenblad described it well, I think, in his review: ‘It is a little dry and not entertaining, but solid. A little like Pietistic Ethics and Capitalistic Spirit.» [[...]] I think it was a striking description. Today, the role of the Storting is to make sure that this 20-year-old continues to grow. That is why we are also making some necessary changes this year to rig the fund so that the hard 20s will be good. The Labour Party is proud of the gradual development of the responsible administration, which we like to call the international gold standard in responsible administration. This year, the Stortinget Government is giving a clear message to explain its work on investment in government bonds, together with Norway’s Bank and NBIM. A total of $1,600. kr of the oil fund is invested in government bonds. Loaning money involves high risks and can contribute to the build-up of unsustainable debt burdens and illegitimate liabilities. I am very pleased and think it is good that this work should now be explained, especially with a view to transparency and reporting. I look forward to the Minister of Finance's assessments next year and join, as the rapporteur said, that what we are going to assess is objective criteria, and that one in these cases is not going to conduct foreign policy. The revelations around The Panama Papers made tax havens an even more topical issue in this year's announcement. The Labour Party has been committed to dealing with the reality of the debate, and we are very pleased with the result that exists in today's position, where we take action both on our own administration and as owners. The size order comes with a clear order for next year's announcement, where the Minister of Finance is asked to review the practice of subsidiaries for property investment, such as today. are registered in Delaware and Luxembourg and submit concrete proposals for other organisation by next year. At the same time, we strengthen the work as an owner. It is a unanimous recommendation to NBIM to establish its own tax expectations document, where transparency, reporting and avoidance of tax adaptation are important. The production of expectation documents has been very successful. It has given clear results. The clear position of the fund as a long-term investor helps to give an additional weight to this type of ownership exercise on long-term issues. Last year we got a document on human rights that has become very good, this year we get tax in place. We have great expectations that this work will lead to results, as we have seen in the other areas. At the same time, I would like to stress that Stortinget follows closely on how the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank and NBIM follow up the work on the expectations documents. The reporting and transparency of this work has become much better in recent years — the last with a thorough report on responsible management, which is very good. But we will continue from Stortinget to make demands to improve this work, so that the expectation documents are not only printed on glossy paper and then placed in the drawer. The size of the population also makes some important decisions about management and organisation this year. The Labour Party has won through with our line in the debate on unlisted investments, to which the rapporteur referred. The government was clear that they would close the door for these investments. Some other parties were eager to make their decision this year. We found a good middle road. The Labour Party has always thought that we should be careful, and that more answers must be given to the table before a decision can be made. Too much is still unclear. We have received good expert reports that have discussed whether the fund should invest in unlisted. Next year, we're going to have more detailed investigations on how to do this. As the rapporteur pointed out, I hope in particular that one can identify how other major players are working on this type of investment, that another will assess the risk, transparency and organisation and discuss this in the next year's communication. I'm looking forward to what's coming. The majority also asks for the Gädrem Committee to expand its work. The last time we had such a thorough review of the Central Bank Act was back in 1985. Since then the fund has not only been established, it has also grown very large. For us, it has therefore been important that a sheep on the table provide more models of organisation, and that this is highlighted when the sample delivers its setting. There is also reference to models where an assessor assesses whether the fund should be outside the Bank of Norway, so-called exempted models – not necessarily because we have concluded that this is the right way to do it, but because there is a large, thorough review to be put in place, and that there is therefore a need for a comprehensive discussion about the organisation of the fund. The work of the Gederm committee is a good opportunity to do this in depth. The Workers' Party and the Left have also been involved in a review of the cost-benefits of the different investment strategies, both in the short and long term, which the Stortinget receives as part of the Fund Communication in 2017. I also look forward to it coming. A year ago, I stood on this pulpit and called it a historic day. Then we decided on an extract of coal companies. The decision was then criticized by many, especially for being immature and for hasty. The work of NBIM, the Bank of Norway and the Ministry of Finance with the decision of the Stortinget has put the skeptics in the shame hook. The operationalisation of the Stortinget decision has been implemented in record time. It is a solid work, and it deserves great praise from this pulpit. It is not unproblematic to be first in these types of assessments, but it is nice to see how the work done by us has led many people to follow. I can mention the French AXA and German Allianz fund – examples of large international funds that have used our definition, our limitations, to the point and the point when they now withdraw from coal companies. This I believe underlines that what we did last year was right, and once again I would like to commend the solid work done to follow up the decision in Stortinget. The decision last year was not the end of the work on coal companies, but perhaps the starter shot itself. This year, we will have NBIM carry out the good work of operationalisation. But from the Workers' Party we are busy saying that Storting's job is not necessarily done. In the years ahead, we need to improve and strengthen the decision that was made. We have to close the hole and continue the job with the overall goal of Stortinget's decision last year that the oil fund is going out of coal companies. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. Once again, we are united on important new steps in the development of administration. I'm looking forward to the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e161	The annual communications on the State pension fund discuss the basis for managing an important part of our common wealth. Long-term and good management facilitates the benefit of both current and future generations of petroleum. The Norwegian State is gradually moving from an oil country to a financial state, and the return from SPU’s foreign placements will this year exceed the country’s net cash flow from oil and gas. Therefore, it is essential to be faithful to the fund’s investment objectives for the highest possible return within a moderate risk. It may be tempting to use the Fund to achieve other policy objectives, whether in terms of development, foreign policy or climate, because such developments appear to be ‘free’ in the short term and require no allocation of the State budget. But in the long term, political goals today can mean less well-being and higher taxes for future generations. State pension funds are subject to democratic control. The size shall give its overall leadership, which is operated by the Bank of Norway. There are many external environments that have strong opinions about the fund's investment strategy and objectives, not always without an underlying agenda. Of course, it is a democratic right that we should not exclude anyone, but at the same time it is important that the majority of the majority of the population respect the overall financial objectives of the fund. The Fund is not served by changing signals from different majority in the UK, and clear orders must be made to the Bank of Norway, starting with the fact that the Fund's main strategy and objectives are well anchored in a broad political majority. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, Svein Flötten, who has been able to establish an agreement on the main issues discussed in the communication and to find solutions that bring together a solid majority behind the assessments made in the communication. The Fund should not be seen as a policy instrument for Norwegian interests but as a long-term investor with a focus on returns, ethical rules, soundness and not least transparency about the management of the Fund and its dispositions. The investment strategy of the Fund is long-term and dynamic, including during periods of great turmoil in financial markets. Developments and changes in the long-term strategy are anchored in the Stortinget. In parallel with the growth of the fund and the challenge of the investment universe due to changes in financial markets and international economies, the investment strategy needs to be updated and developed in order to contribute to the objective of the highest possible return to moderate risk. The property portfolio is still in a build-up phase and accounts for approx. 3 pst. by the Fund at the end of 2015. The experience of investment in unlisted property is important when the Storting asks the Government to assess investments in unlisted infrastructure. Investment in real estate requires a different type of organisation and competence than investment in shares and debt securities on the stock exchange. Investments are less liquid, the management costs are higher and the organisational requirements to limit liability are more demanding than for listed assets. These «impacts» must be weighed against the possibility of higher returns in combination with better risk spread. Investments in unlisted infrastructure will challenge the organisation to an even greater extent, both because it is a relatively small market, demand for large holdings with low liquidity, risk of political instability and regulatory changes, and not least significant reputational risk. The Progress Party believes that the government's preliminary conclusion not to invest our savings in foreign infrastructure is reasonable. At the same time, the room for manoeuvre is not closed, and the majority of the Committee asks for further work to be done on these assessments until next year's Fund notification. That is a good approach and a wise choice. In addition, it is interesting to see which recommendations come from the two samples to assess the share stake in the SPU and the governance structure of the Bank of Norway respectively, and what changes may be proposed to sharpen the strategy further and establish structures that also contribute to good governance and increased returns. The notification reports satisfactory net returns for both SPU and SPN in a demanding year and in a turbulent market. Continuously low administrative costs are also a confirmation of a competent and good management of our savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e182	Let me join in the praise given to the case rapporteur, but I would also like to say that when it comes to dealing with these annual messages, the opposition has also shown great willingness to reach agreement. I think that is a great strength for the fund and for the country. It turns out that every message you take new steps forward, at least I claim it will. Someone might mean the opposite. But the fund is developing, and we are, as the rapporteur said, now in a situation where there is more management and not ever new revenue from the oil business that becomes the topic. Therefore, I am absolutely sure that the Council of State has taken note of the unanimous decisions to be taken, as regards both the fund and the assessment of alternative governance and company models, which are to be assessed in a separate sample, but which a unanimous increase is now giving some advice on the way. And so, as many people were involved, we are now asking that it be developed – at least assessed, and I think that is also done – an expectation document on taxes for the companies in which the fund invests. There are some minority proposals, and I then spend the rest of my time on it since it has otherwise been given such an adequate explanation from the case rapporteur and from Tvedt Solberg. Unlisted infrastructure: this is actually a follow-up to a budget decision in autumn 2014 on which the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party agreed. So we were probably a little surprised at the setting that came, but we might have had a waiting year. We believe that this was the basis for entering this market. It is also the case that there are solid assessments by both the Bank of Norway and a separate expert group on why it should be possible to do so. Only for those who are anxious and believe that the fund will go out on something it should not, do I want to refer the proposal as it is now: ‘The government is asking the Government to open up the possibility for SPU to invest in unlisted infrastructure as proposed by the Bank of Norway, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of security at first, in order to gain experience and build skills.’ It wouldn't be a quantum leap to adopt such a proposal either, but okay. The majority want a little bit more time, and that time they get with what it becomes the majority for today. Then the consensus to look at the framework for investment in government bonds is mentioned. I fully agree – there should be no foreign policy instrument. However, there must be transparency in the issuing countries and the decision to raise large loans in some countries should have a standard of transparency which should also prevent illegitimate debt. Tvedt Solberg said that the fund was now 20 years old, and that the crazy teens were over. It may never have been like that, but for sure, we have a couple of suggestions to make sure that the fund doesn't invest so much in filling and playing. But I see that there is only a minority in the committee who believe it. We'll see. Maybe we'll get back to that case as well. Then I take up the suggestions we stand alone or with other parties about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e206	The representative of Syversen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e209	I don't think I'm going to go through the shelf of the state pension fund abroad, because we all agree on how important the decisions were to set up the fund, and how important it is that we have a long-term and a responsibility in the management of it. I just want to make a few comments, among others. to invest in unlisted infrastructure. The reason why we put ourselves on the government line in that case is that we are of the opinion that in terms of such a large and comprehensive fund as this, all the changes must be gradual and knowledge-based – we must be absolutely sure of what we are doing. So I'm not sure that you disagree with those who say that you should proceed quickly, but we mean that the whole fund in its nature is so that we should proceed carefully, and when we make the changes, we should be absolutely sure that there is something we are in common behind, and that we do not have to adjust the rate again in a few years. Then we have chosen to go into the proposal for which the Christian People's Party has been the main figure, and which Hans Olav Syversen referred to instead, to ‘examine the basis for drawing SPUs out of gambling companies’ and ‘examine the basis for withdrawing SPUs from alcohol companies’. But what he's asking for here is an investigation, which makes it possible to make a decision about it, because every time we make that kind of decision, it has to be properly thought out. We spent a long time discussing coal companies, but I discovered that when the Stortinget made the decision, this was thought through, and it was across the dividing lines. So the story of the state pension fund abroad is a good story, and I think what makes it a good story is that we've managed to avoid having a lot of political games around it. We've managed to reach agreement, and we've been able to see that this is a choice we're making not only for us who sit here for four years, but also for those who sit on the Storting in 30–40–50 years. It is important for Norway as a country that we manage this wealth responsibly – therefore the prudent approach – but that we still challenge ourselves because we are committed to managing the fund in an ethically sound and sound manner. So we always have to be able to figure out if there's other areas we're going to go into, but if we're going to do that, there has to be a consensus on the day that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e220	Thanks to the case-speaker and the committee from me, too. I join the introduction to the representative Tvedt Solberg. There is every reason to congratulate NBIM, formerly amassing and ourselves for the 20th anniversary. And as Tvedt Solberg said, and as the government wrote in the message, right in a little less lyrical terms: everything indicates that the net contribution to the fund via government finances is over. It's a challenge that I'm sure the fund managers will solve from now on. If government and collapse take over such a fact and show more restraint with the use of oil money in the future, it is to be seen. At least it shouldn't be on the left. The most remarkable thing about the management message is the ability to let SPU invest in unlisted infrastructure. In 2006, Norway’s Bank advised that the fund could invest in unlisted infrastructure. The Bank reiterated the Council in July 2010 and stressed that: «the fund was well-suited to make such investments»; and that increased efforts by real assets such as ownership and infrastructure could help to reduce uncertainty about the development of the fund's international purchasing power. The left believes that including renewable energy infrastructure is important and in line with the long-term objective of contributing to a sustainable development in economic, environmental and societal terms, and which is fundamental to ensuring good returns in the long term. So I'm sorry that the majority don't think so, but push that decision for another year. In two areas, the Left, primarily in close cooperation with the Labour Party, but also in good dialogue with the entire Committee, has been given a broad majority. It is up to a proper assessment of the cost-benefit and risk of active management, and it is up to an extra mandate in the Gedrem Committee to look at whether today’s organisation of the SPU through the main board of Norway Bank is the most optimal. It is a fact that the active strategies of SPU, securities selection and allocation have not been bad in the market or have given rise to multiple rejection in the last three years. It is apparent from the annual report of NBIM for 2015 submitted in March. Therefore, it is important that the Stortinget now instructs the government to come back with a thorough assessment of the cost-benefit and risk of so-called active management, call it active-active management, versus index management – especially when the costs of the active management strategy over the last three years are just over 5 billion. NOK, well over half of the total costs during the period, to administer approximately. 16 pst. by the fund. I am also pleased that a co-conspirator's deliberation is now asking for the downgrading of the Gedrem selection, which is to assess the central bank law and the governance of Norway's Bank, also to assess a more liberal organisation of the SPU. Today's model, where the Governor and the two Vice-Chairmen have almost all the power after all the practical purposes, in my view, is not entirely unproblematic. It is therefore in place to get an assessment of different, more relaxed, organisation of the SPU. I have in no way pre-concluded. It may be that when the positive and negative effects of different models are to be evaluated and weighed up against each other, the Left will conclude that today's model is the most sensible. The left is a number of minority suggestions in the configuration that we now have for handling. In addition to the proposal on unlisted infrastructure, which I have mentioned earlier, this concerns the ethical guidelines for government bonds, the assessment of the business of SPU in tax havens, the exclusion of investments in companies linked to the production of nuclear weapons, investment programmes in resilient enterprises and projects in poor countries, the strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy and withdrawing the fund from high-carbon oil and gas companies and securing the rights of indigenous peoples. In total, these proposals would have made the investment profile of SPU even more resilient and in line with what is openert's direction to go. In the event of an incurrency, the Left does not have a comment from SV attached to investments in unlisted infrastructure, which states that it should not be ‘opened up for investment in fossil infrastructure’. Finally, I take up the proposal No. 9-11, from the Left and the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e251	The representative Terje Breivik has thus addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e254	The common wealth of the Norwegian people has become an international power factor. The choices made by the Fund can be of great importance both in individual cases and because other actors follow the investment strategy pursued by the Fund. Therefore, the SPU cannot be regarded as a form of neutral savings box, but requires close follow-up and democratic control. Consideration of the environment, human rights and international law must be given first to the management of the SPU in order to achieve the long-term objectives on which there is broad consensus. For future pensions and pensioners, it is particularly important that the fund’s investment strategy reflects the global climate crisis and its consequences. In all areas of society, action is urgently needed to reverse dangerous climate change. SPU is a powerful global player, and therefore we have both a responsibility for and a long-term interest in the fund’s investment strategy reflecting work on man-made climate change. By further developing democratic structures and responsible investment practices, Norway can and should guide the international development of responsible investment practices in a broad sense. The specific nature of the Fund, with an almost infinite time horizon and a high capacity to maintain an investment strategy over time, can thus be used to promote important common sustainability and accountability objectives. SV is pleased that we have finally had an impact on the ethical practice of investing in government bonds. By contributing to the build-up of illegitimate debt in other countries, either by irresponsible lending or by financing war and violations of international law, the fund becomes a destructive factor. We can avoid that, and I'm very happy that this work is starting now. The Oil Fund has established its own companies in the Luxembourg tax havens and Delaware for its property investments. This is how we contribute to keeping tax havens profitable. We're maintaining a system that runs the world's country for large sums of money to go to well-being, for security and for redistribution. The majority today refuses to withdraw the oil fund's own company from the tax havens of Luxembourg and Delaware. Just weeks after Panama Papers it seems that the will for action is gone. The fine words of Panama Papers ’ revelations play a very small role when so little concrete is done. It is difficult to understand that the financial committee will not ask the oil fund to notify the tax authorities when they discover unethical tax practices of the companies in which they have invested. It should be a matter of course. Public actors participating in or facilitating aggressive tax planning steal tax revenues from others. Such behaviour has significant negative external effects and is unethical. Both in Luxleaks and in Panama Papers, we have seen what kind of business the world's tax havens contribute to. The trial against the alerts behind Luxleaks, i.e. not the companies or the authorities conspiring with them, is ongoing in these days in Luxembourg. The presence of the SPU helps to legitimise the use of closed jurisdictions and makes it economically tempting for countries to act accordingly. There is a strong need for long-term capital investment in green technology and renewable energy. Here we find a lot of the renewable infrastructure the world needs to develop to achieve the objectives we have set in the Paris Agreement. In addition to the financial risks of such investments, even if SV is positive about launching such projects, we should bear in mind the political risk of this type of investment. When, hopefully, the fund is beginning to invest in renewable infrastructure, the fund must be aware of the risk of interference with corruption, the use of secret jurisdictions, any negative impact on local and indigenous populations, the environment in neighbourhoods and possible conflict with local regulatory authorities. Several of the SV's proposals, in the layers of the Christian People's Party and the Left, take into account just these dilemmas. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e270	The representative then addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e273	Thank you to the Committee for a thorough work. The Green Party, which is not in the Committee, is committed to the overall objective of long-term and responsible management of the State pension fund abroad and is pleased with important changes. I'm not going to get into everybody, but for example. an expectation document on taxation and increasing transparency is good. This is a development that must continue. Then we are surprised that the government's communication on the State pension fund abroad is presented with a conclusion that is not only contrary to expert advice, but also against the Higher Law's decision to open up a new mandate for direct investment in renewable energy. The government-appointed expert committee has recommended that the pension fund be given the opportunity to invest in unlisted renewable infrastructure, and they also consider that this is attractive to the fund. The Bank of Norway considers that infrastructure provides better risk-spreading for the fund and that investments in renewable energy infrastructure can provide the same profitability for the fund as for other investments. But this means that the Minister of Finance is still a bad idea, and I think that is a wrong conclusion. Out in the world, we see very clear market trends. The number of pension funds investing in infrastructure has increased by 35 pst. only in the last year. Well over half of the OECD's major pension funds invest on average 3.5 pst. of its market value in unlisted infrastructure, many of which have defined objectives of increasing those investments. Among the ten largest state investment funds, only one is not investing in infrastructure, and it is called the State pension fund abroad and is Norwegian. The subjects are ready. Market trends show that the pension fund is increasingly losing valuable time, and we are losing valuable time. It is, therefore, regrettable that we now have to be careful with another investigation of a question that the Financial Times calls a 'no-brainer' for the pension fund. Of course, the environmental party agrees that infrastructure investment poses challenges for the oil fund. We must ensure that investment takes place within a reasonable economic framework and we must ensure that these investments are responsible. However, the fact that we politicians provide broad guidelines for the fund does not mean that the fund itself – with the Bank of Norway at the wheel – should manage the implementation of an investment market, and the Green Party has full confidence in the fund’s ability to do so. The plural proposal for a further investigation of this issue therefore appears to us rather as a continuing process of maturation for some of the parties at Stortinget than as an actual need to obtain more data or prepare the fund's administration more for this job. We must not forget that we have signed an agreement in Paris that puts an increased pressure on all the activities associated with the climate to increase speed and increase activity and effect. That is why the Green Party is now promoting a proposal for government to investigate and promote proposals on how the pension fund can actively contribute to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. The growth of the oil fund may have reached its peak. It is Storting's responsibility, as several have pointed out, to modernise the management of this fund in order to ensure the well-being of current and future generations. This means that the Fund must adapt to the emerging markets and that it must prepare to leave the existing markets. The work the Fund has done to implement at least the first parts of an extract of coal, as many claimed has been hasty and premature, shows the fund's excellent ability to act quickly and efficiently, and there is little reason to believe that one will not see the same ability on the day we will – and we get that – a decision to also invest in renewable infrastructure. So I take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e296	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e299	The State pension fund is our common savings fund and an integral part of economic policy. Good management of the Fund contributes to funding well-being and political efforts. The framework for the management of our petroleum resources, where oil and gas revenues are set aside and we use expected real returns, reap international recognition. We have established an investment strategy that helps us spread the risk by owning a small share in a large number of companies and debt securities. This strategy has served us well. The Bank of Norway and the Public Resources Fund have established competent organisations. They have over time delivered good results and have had low costs. The pension fund is considered to be among the most open in the world, and our two administrators are the leaders in the work of responsible management. The results obtained are based on long-term work. The investment strategy has been developed over time, based on thorough assessments, and important choices have been anchored in the Storting. Much works well, but we also need to consider how management can be even better. We're going to continue building the rock-by-stone strategy, anchored in Stortinget. After the financial crisis, the State pension fund abroad has had several years of high returns. Over the last three years, the fund has almost doubled in value, measured in Norwegian kroner. We must be prepared that the rapid growth will not continue. The supply to the fund fell last year marked as a result of low oil and gas prices. The international interest rate level is low. Falling interest rates and good times in stock markets have contributed to the return in recent years being higher than we have achieved historically, and probably higher than what we can expect over time. There is considerable uncertainty about future returns. Measured in Norwegian kroner, the value of the fund has also been significantly increased as a result of a weaker krone price, but without a corresponding increase in the fund's international purchasing power. The entire contribution from the exchange rate has come in the last three years. If the crown strengthens again, the sign will be the other way around. This year’s Communication on State pension funds discusses several important issues. The Committee's presentation shows broad support for the broad lines of today's strategy and the framework for the Fund. I'm glad. Good and long-term management requires broad opening up and trust in the way the fund is managed. In the last year, there has been a lot of attention on so-called active management. In line with the Storting treatment of last year’s notification, the framework for deviations from the reference index has increased slightly. At the same time, the government has made new demands on risk and reporting. I have noticed that an overall committee ends up on these requirements, such as, among other things. involves increased reporting on the strategies used by Norway’s Bank to seek higher returns than the reference index. It strengthens the transparency of the fund. I have also noticed that the Committee wishes to assess the different investment strategies in the context of the next review of the management of State pension funds abroad. I'll follow up on that. The next review will be presented to the Stortinget in spring 2018, in the 2017 Fund Communication, as the Committee also proposes. In this year’s Communication, the Government has proposed a new regulation of property in the State pension fund abroad. Norway’s Bank no longer receives a mandate to invest up to 5 pst. by the fund in unlisted property but an opportunity to invest in unlisted property if the bank considers it to provide better returns or lower risks than quoted shares and bonds. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal for new regulation, which will provide a more comprehensive management of the risk in the management of the Bank of Norway. I am also pleased that the Committee unanimously supports the government's assessment of unlisted investments in the State pension fund Norway. There has been a great deal of commitment about whether Norway’s Bank should be given the opportunity to invest in unlisted infrastructure. There is a broad political consensus that the Fund should not be an instrument of foreign or environmental policy. In these areas, the country has many other instruments, and they are being used actively. The fund must not become a political cheek egg. The main task of the Fund is to contribute to the future financing of the public sector. It will ensure our pensions, health care and care for the elderly. Experience from other countries and funds shows that setting targets other than returns on investments may have significant costs. In assessing investments in unlisted infrastructure, we need to have a financial starting point. Unlisted investments give rise to high holdings and a visible ownership. The risk of such investments in unlisted infrastructure is high, not least for the reputation of the fund. The government must weigh the increased investment opportunities against the risk of the reputation of the fund. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee supports the conclusion not to open up investments in unlisted infrastructure now. At the same time, we have said that we are open to review this at a later stage. Towards the next Fund Communication, we aim to continue working on how to address the risks and the specific challenges of such investment, as the Committee proposes. The Committee also draws attention to other areas where it is desirable to look at them more closely. Tax and transparency on tax matters are an important theme and are addressed by the Committee. Norway’s Bank invests in unlisted property through subsidiaries, which has been fully transparent. The Bank is now aiming to assess Norwegians instead of foreign holding companies. Like the Committee, I would like to welcome such an assessment. It is positive that we can get the benefits and disadvantages of different ways of organizing our business. I have noticed that the committee is asking for an explanation of this in the next year's fund announcement. Transparency about financial conditions in the companies in which the fund is invested is another important issue. Transparency and good reporting by companies creates trust, counteracts secrecy and supports proper taxation. These are issues that Norway’s Bank is concerned about in its ownership work. The Committee requests an assessment of whether ownership work in the bank can be extended by a new tax expectation document. I have noticed that and will follow this up with Norway's Bank. The Committee would also like to see guidelines on the Fund’s investment in sovereign debt as a tool for the Bank of Norway in the financial risk assessment. Here, too, I want to take an initiative with Norway's Bank and come back with assessments in next year's fund announcement. On 10 April last year, the government set down a sample, led by Svein Gedrem, to assess changes in the Central Bank Act and the governance of the Bank of Norway. The mandate of the sample is broad and, in my opinion, does not prevent me from addressing the issues of the management of the SPU that the Committee addresses in the setting. I will make the selection aware of the Committee's comments. I think it is constructive for the Committee to address these issues, so that we can have them clarified and properly addressed. It provides a basis for finding solutions with broad political support. Finally, the annual reports on the State pension fund discuss the basis for managing an important part of our common wealth. Several governments have helped to shape the strategy for the fund, and we will build on that. With good and long-term governance, and broad political support, the fund will be able to support the financing of our common well-being for many generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e361	It was described by Today’s Business as having received the Minister of Finance’s ‘home affairs’ from Stortinget, when the Committee’s position became known. The change of reply is perhaps an opportunity to hear the Minister of Finance in the lectures, and then I think of unlisted infrastructure. The biggest request is for this work to continue until next year's notice, and one points out in the notes several questions that a person wants to answer. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to elaborate a little more than in his contribution what she thinks about this lesson, and what assessments she has made about the forthcoming work towards next year's message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e366	The finance minister is used to getting homework from Stortinget. She is also used to following them up in an appropriate manner to Stortinget, and of course I will do so in this case as well. And as I said in my post, I have noticed what the committee has written. In connection with the message being processed today, we have made the assessments and reflections that form the basis that have also been reflected in the settings. I don't think I'm already going to pre-empt the questions raised by the committee in the vote; we almost have to come back to them next year's message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e373	As the Minister of Finance knows, this issue related to unlisted infrastructure was part of the budgetary agreement between the four parties a year and a half ago, and the follow-up is getting exciting. But I'm a little interested in how determined the Minister of Finance is about the conclusion that the government has reached in this year's announcement. To use a legal term, has the conclusion come beyond reasonable doubt, or was it uncertain?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e378	It is quite right, as the representative Syversen says, that the work on investigating this came about between the four cooperation parties. I believe that we have worked well and thoroughly to follow it up. There has been an expert committee at work, which has made its assessments of this, in line with the Bank, but there have also been seminars and consultations with other experts, who have given somewhat more divided views on what they think about this. It is always difficult for a finance minister to conclude on such major and important issues as this. For me, it was the reputation risk that was the all-important challenge, especially because this is a challenging market, which we have to follow very closely, but it was the decisive one at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e385	Then I realize that it was just this point, reputation risk, that maybe tipped the conclusion in that direction. Does that mean – although I understand that the Minister of Finance will not conclude – that if this risk of reputation is adequately addressed, could it tip the conclusion in a different direction at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e390	I said that the risk of reputation was crucial, but there are other factors in this which also need to be emphasised: significant political risk, the risk that other countries' decisions might be decisive for the investments that could be made through this type of unlisted investment. All in all, there are many factors — in particular that other countries’ authorities urgently and without notice make changes to the framework conditions — that affect this. Then it is not easy to be left with such ownership, which may lose itself in value. So I believe that there are many things we need to take a careful stand on. We'll have the opportunity to do that now by thinking about it again, and then we'll have to continue the debate in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e398	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e401	Several speakers have spoken about openness and tax havens. In the Workers' Party, we are very pleased with the consensus that you have reached, that Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had in the past, that we are now getting an assessment of the practice of subsidiaries, and that we can get a tax expectation document. I think that will be an important step for the fund and the bank in the future. In this context, I would like to mention something related to the practice of subsidiaries. The Financial Secrecy Index is a list made by the Tax Justice Network, based on reports from governments and international organisations such as the OECD and the Financial Action Task Force. On this list, it's not about to be a no. 1st@item: inlistbox Number one is the country that collectively practises the most secrecy and allows hidden owners, low or no taxes. Panama has received a lot of attention lately, but in this context they must see themselves turned off by twelve other countries. Norway is a long way down the list, but we are also not at the bottom, and it is particularly linked to the transparency of ownership registers. In this context, where we are discussing the State pension fund abroad, it may be natural to take a look at countries no. 3 and No 6 in the list, namely Luxembourg, which has the sixth place, and the United States, which has the third place, but it should be emphasised that this is particularly about the Delaware State. Delaware is the state in the United States through which we have made our property investments, and which is estimated to be the state in the world that best protects your money and your identity if you want to hide it. There is almost no place where it is so easy to set up a shell company, and almost nowhere it is so difficult to need through this shell. Even the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, points out that Delaware is used for illegal money transactions, for money laundering, and that it is done in large amounts by multinational companies, but that Delaware is also a lovely place for criminals who have to move money in connection with arms trafficking, human trafficking, drugs and terrorism. So the question is, do I think the fund has something to hide, that they want to be in Delaware because they want to keep their activity secret? - No, absolutely not. But do I think we should strive that when we're going to make big investments on behalf of the community, we're going to do it through states that don't operate this way? - Yes, absolutely. In this picture, I am particularly pleased that we are now going to have an assessment of the practice of the pension fund's use of subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e439	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e448	I take the floor for the Financial Market Communication. We all agree that well-functioning financial markets are a prerequisite for economic growth and welfare development as well as tax revenue to the public. Banking and financial services are a central part of society’s infrastructure and often a precursor to economic development. Capital, together with labour and competence, is one of the main factors of production in society. It is important for Norwegian business that we have a solid financial industry, but we should also remember that the financial industry is an industry itself. The industry has a key role to play in both facilitating and contributing to the transition between Norway and the Norwegian business community. At the same time, governments must be a contributor to facilitate both a solid and an innovative financial industry. This duality, both as part of the infrastructure of society and as an industry of its own, makes the financial industry exciting, special and demanding. On the one hand, regulation shall ensure good soundness of financial undertakings and, on the other hand, shall also facilitate innovation and competition in industry. Many people have something to learn from the ability of banks to convert and to apply new technologies. The public can also learn something from the financial industry, and the financial industry can be a key to realising the digitalisation strategy of the authorities. The financial industry in Norway is forward-looking and has growth potential. The Committee therefore supports the assessment by the government of regulatory changes to facilitate private pension funds to be invested more in infrastructure, of course weighted against the safety of customers for their pensions. It may be precisely the duality of the financial industry that makes it demanding to have comprehensive, robust and at the same time cost-effective and flexible regulation. The minority comments point out that strange regulation was a priority in the face of the financial crisis. At the same time, there is criticism that this government, for the sake of sound banks, is in favour of demands and regulations that may seem strange. The central bank manager concluded in the hearing that the Norwegian economy is not in crisis, and also underlined that although there has been some tightening and some restraint in lending to parts of the business, there are no general concerns regarding credit access. The majority of the Committee points out that the credit growth of industry remains stable and that since 2012 it has been between 3 and 4 pst. As it appears today, the Norwegian credit market seems to be functioning well, and profitable investments still have good access to finance. It is therefore strange that the government’s policy of a minority is called anti-business because the so-called SME discount in the capital requirements of banks is not introduced. This provision of EU legislation is intended to fill a funding gap for enterprises that have limited access to funding as a result of the banking crisis in the EU. Thus, the objective is not to reduce the lending rate through lower capital coverage in a well-functioning capital market, but rather to provide an exception for a non-functioning lending market. This provision is therefore of little relevance to Norwegian conditions. On the other hand, it may be useful to assess what a continuation of this provision in the EU could mean for the Norwegian financial industry’s competitive conditions and the capital adequacy of Norwegian banks. Free police are finally paid contracts and are managed in accordance with a known law of public law. The issue highlighted in the Communication and by the minority in the Committee is well known, but the solution has not been followed up by either the Banking Law Commission in 2012, the Ministry of Government Stoltenberg or the Stortinget da Prop. 11 L for 2012–2013 was presented, which was about the acquisition of investment power by free police. It has never been up-to-date to change the public regulation of paid out-of-court contracts. These are finally paid and based on a clear code, but customers have thus been given a legal option to choose a different contract themselves. Any change in such contracts must be based on agreements between the parties, not on regulatory changes. Customers have been given the option of choosing investment funds on a voluntary basis, cf. Prop. 11 L, promoted by the previous government, and we believe the solution is still very well justified. The Ministry of Finance’s assessment is that the EEA rules do not allow the risk weight for loans to Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities to be set at 0 pst. The reason for this is that the powers of Norwegian municipalities to tax are limited, and among other things. the municipal law, which gives its own rules on the order of priority in the case of payment problems. Under the EEA Code, then, the minimum risk weight is 20 pst. and the Right Party and the Advance Party consider that the current weighting reflects the correct risk. Lending to Norwegian municipalities is not risk-free. It is also worth noting that several members of the Committee stress that we must bring with us the lessons of the international financial crisis of the time to come, so that governments do not allow too much debt build-up and too high a risk. They should have that in mind when discussing both SMB discount and 0-weighted risk to municipalities. These members also write that strange regulation was a priority in the face of the crisis, because it gave us more solid banks. That's not hard to agree with. Therefore, it is gratifying that the majority of the Committee concludes on what has given Norwegian banks an advantage, while recognising the opportunities of the banking and financial industries as contributing to conversion, innovation and innovation, both in their own industry and for the Norwegian society as such. It is then nice to recommend an attitude that is considerably more rigid than the current case rapporteur, and to thank the Cooperation Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e474	A bit of solidarity with the rapporteur: I do not know how steady I am, but I also take the floor from here. I would like to be on the floor when the government parties feel they belong there. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur, Mr Nordby Lunde, for a good dialogue along the way in the work on this motion for a resolution. This includes, among other things: As a result, we have reached a broad majority in the Committee to ask the Ministry to assess what can be the impact of the competition conditions of the Norwegian financial industry and the capital adequacy of Norwegian banks that the EU Commission is assessing the SME discount. It was actually meant to be a temporary measure, but can now be made permanent. The centre party and left go further, but we're not ready to conclude today – so that's what they say. However, it is important that the government now looks closely at how this should be handled by the Norwegian side, as requested by the majority. This Regulation implies specific capital requirements for lending to small and medium-sized enterprises – it should be said that small and medium-sized enterprises outside Europe and at home may vary according to their definitions. But this may have a limited positive effect on the pricing of loans to such enterprises. At the same time, the majority of the Committee points out that the solidarity of banks should not be impaired, but considers that there is time to assess the competitive situation in view of what is happening in the EU area. We say it a little bit around, but we're concerned that this is being followed up in a good way by the Council of State. However, we in the Committee have not been able to reach an agreement on the weighting of municipal and county loans. The Government Party believes that today's weighting reflects the correct risk of such loans, but the Right Party and the Advance Party alone are to be non-slip. We think it's hard to establish that exactly 20 pst. is the correct weighting in the current situation. KS is very concerned about this, and this weighting now increases the borrowing costs of municipal borrowings. In particular, beyond the autumn of 2015, this price increase was affected. KS says there are several billion dollars. The Workers' Party does not say that the weighting should be 0, as is the case with government loans, and as KS primarily wants, but we do not want the municipal sector to incur unnecessary costs. And there's a lot of numbers between 0 and 20. Therefore, we ask the government to reconsider whether this strange, high level of 20 pst. is the correct level. It's a shame the government doesn't see the need and is willing to assess this, because in different variants – and I ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to this – the majority in the Grand Council is to address this. Here we can actually create room for better well-being in Kommune-Norway without having to allocate money from here. But here we have the ones that are going to take 0 here today, and the ones that are going to have an assessment of whether this is right. But I'm going to say it again: it's a majority of some way to go into it. Then I actually expect the department to look at it with a little bit of new eyes and come back to Stortinget with this question in some shape. Otherwise, in the Labour Party, we point out that several actors have addressed different aspects of today's law on law enforcement. It is obvious that there are challenges related to the sustainability of the free police system, and we believe that the government also has to take them seriously. That is why we are in favour of a proposal that the government should set up a selection to make proposals for ‘rules and measures that can contribute to the more sustainable management of guaranteed free policies’. The Workers’ Party is also involved in a proposal for a further delimitation of ‘the access of banks to take risks through activities other than the core business’, as a scarce minority — but a highly competent minority — of the Financial Crisis Committee has also intervened. Here we have to tighten up bank and concession laws, we believe. Finally, the Labour Party sees that it can be positive that private pension funds can be invested in infrastructure and that there can be a positive contribution to making more. However, we are not only concerned that this should be balanced against the security of our customers for their pensions, as the entire Committee believes; we also assume that the security and preparedness of society is well taken care of. I'm a little surprised that just the Center Party is involved in this underlining, I thought it was something that we could all end up about. And as kind as I am now, I choose to think that maybe more people would have been there if they had read it one more time. So I live in hope. I'm dealing with the proposals that the Workers' Party and other parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e495	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e498	The Financial Market Communication provides a good and comprehensive overview of the situation description of this important sector, and in most areas the Committee makes unanimous comments. As part of the procedure for the notification, consultations with the Governor of the Central Bank of Öystein Olsen have also been held this year, with many questions and good answers. During the hearing, I myself was concerned about asking questions about how households are equipped to withstand a future interest rate rise. There is a significant proportion of households, about 10 pst., that have a gross debt that is five times the income. These could experience challenges if interest rates increase and approach a more normal level than today. It will be a major challenge, not only for the individual family, but also for the total economy. In fact, I record that household consumption is reasonably stable, despite rising unemployment, and at a time when interest rates have been reduced. Earlier this year, SR-bank provided information that almost 10,000 mortgage customers in Rogaland have applied for a right of deduction in the last year alone. It's a record big move, and I wonder if any of the reasons might be that people simply down priorities to pay their housing debts, but live their lives as much as possible as before, waiting for the times to change, and for the job market in the oil industry to recover. I hope that this is not the case, but that more and more households in Norway have a debt burden that makes them vulnerable to high interest rates, increased unemployment and falls in oil prices, must be followed closely. As a Westerner, a fluctuation in the oil price is well known on the body. In 2014, the average price was 105.43 dollars, while in January this year it was less than 30 dollars. Fortunately, it's on its way up again, and it's about $50, but there's no doubt that the fall in the oil price has contributed to lower growth and increased unemployment. Lower interest rates, on the other hand, have helped to keep the growth of consumer investment up. A weaker crown has contributed positively to enterprises in e.g. the maritime food industry, which competes with the rest of the world. The same applies, for example: the construction industry, which is now taking a significant share of the contracts in Norway in road construction. While Norwegian entrepreneurs in 2013, they had 70 pst. Of all the contracts, we now see that the share is about 95 p.m., and while the market has grown strongly at the same time due to increased appropriations. Financial policy now has an expansive impact on the economy. The financial sector consists of financial institutions, financial markets and financial infrastructure. The sector offers a wide range of products and services. If, for example: shall save, borrow for housing, insure or save for retirement, the sector is important. Sound financial markets are a prerequisite for economic growth and contribute to economic security for individuals. Investment in infrastructure is a major need, and in some cases infrastructure investments may be well suited to providing long-term and stable returns on private pension funds. The Progress Party has fought for changes to the regulatory framework to facilitate greater investment of private pension capital in infrastructure. Life insurance corporations and pension funds managed in 2015 about 1200 billion At the same time, Norway still needs economically viable investments in infrastructure, transport and building stock. Low oil prices mean that the Norwegian economy has come to a turning point where Norway is moving from a resource economy to a knowledge-based economy, and now we need to invest in the infrastructure that enables future jobs. The Progress Party is therefore very positive in opening up private pension capital to greater investment in infrastructure. This is something that all parties win. Life insurance companies have better access to safe and long-term investments that ensure future pensions, and Norway is given better infrastructure. Managing Director Idar Kreutzer in Finans Norway wrote a chronicle in Finansavisen earlier this year. I quote: ‘Norway is screaming for money to realise large, expensive and socially useful investments. At the same time, Norwegian life insurance companies and pension funds sit on huge sums they would like to invest in long-term and secure projects. It is difficult to get closer to a Columbia egg.» The Progress Party agrees, and we are pleased that the Committee is now supporting the government's proposal to consider changes in the rules that can open up this type of investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e525	The finance industry is one of the most important travel hubs we have to get to that conversion and innovation Norway needs in the future. Equally competitive relations between Norwegian and foreign banks and financial institutions are crucial for industry – a fact that was also underlined by the Minister of Finance on the day of the financial industry under the auspices of Finans Norway in March this year. In spite of this, there are no measures in the Financial Market Communication 2015 that call for such a policy, rather on the contrary. One of the most important messages from the industry to the Minister of Finance, both during the day of the financial industry and during the hearing of the Committee, is the wish to introduce the so-called SME discount, which in turn could lead to an increase in the foreign capacity of Norwegian banks and credit institutions to small and medium-sized enterprises of 31 pst. This will not least be important at a time when very many companies report problems with access to loans. The government and the government party reject the Left's proposal to do something about it five or six times, but this year they try to hide behind a note asking the government what the SMB discount could mean for the conditions of competition of the Norwegian financial industry and the capital adequacy of Norwegian banks – hide because experience is that when the Stortinget asks the government and the Ministry of Finance evaluate something, the answer is no to change ten out of ten times. A good example of this is the problem associated with weighting municipal loans. As part of the 2016 budget agreement, the following decision was taken: ‘The government requests the return of the Financial Market Communication 2016 with an assessment of the criteria set out in the EEA legislation for the weighting of local government loans in the calculation of capital requirements for banks and insurance companies.’ Understood: It was a desire to reduce weight. The government's response was no to the change. EEA legislation clearly states that the governing powers of a country can determine the weight to be attached to loans to local government in that country, either the same weight as for loans to states, 0 pst., or 20 pst. Almost all EU countries have a 0-weighting of municipal loans. Once again, the government and government parts will be interpreted as strict as possible, with the worst possible results. The follow-up is that Norwegian municipalities receive more expensive loans than necessary and must thus be compensated over the expenditure page of the State budget. In the hearing of the Committee, we were aware that on 31 March this year the Financial Supervisory Authority presented to the Ministry of Finance a proposal for Norwegian banks to have an unweighted core capital of 6 pst. – twice as high as the EU requirement after all will be introduced. Such a proposal does not necessarily have the big significance for all financial institutions, but has dramatic consequences for others. The municipal bank, but also for other types of banks, such as The Skandiabanken Norway, which has mainly residential loans to private customers as a portfolio. I argued that the government would ensure that the unweighted capital requirement would also be adapted to those banks that focus on low risk segments or introduce exemptions for special banks, such as the Municipal Bank. I hope the Minister of Finance will be able to answer this question. Another known issue is the police. The Free Police Owners are today locked to one supplier and cannot move the Free Police even if they wish. The current legal requirement for the final annual allocation of interest rate guarantees and surplus is effective to prevent free-police owners from obtaining a real surplus of income and pension regulation as wages grow. The Financial Supervisory Authority, like Finans Norway, has for a long time pointed out that the legislation needs to be amended. The government, which is otherwise much louder than the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, also acts at this point to take a very rigid stance and will not address the major free-police challenges. The left shares the view that sound banks and financial institutions are important, with capital adequacy and capital requirements ensuring this. However, it is not necessarily synonymous that one should have the position of government and government at all times, i.e. that the strictest possible is the best possible. It gets accidentally followed, among other things. in the case of the SME discount, which means that the ability to increase the lending framework for Norwegian small enterprises is not being used. It also applies to the weighting of municipal loans, which I have had. Overall, there is unnecessary rigour and no other result than weakening Norwegian banks and financial institutions in international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e550	Is the representative of Mr Breivik interested in addressing the proposals No. 3 and 4, which left has with the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e553	That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e558	The representative Terje Breivik then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e562	As in the previous debate, it is important to reflect the awareness of tax havens and the role of the financial industry in facilitating the exploitation of tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. New global devices are needed in cooperation with the industry to combat tax havens and secret justice. Therefore, SV is today promoting proposals for Norway to work for a global and mandatory register of financial values. In order to protect the world's tax revenue, more knowledge about the world's tax base and less opportunities for the crime that today's tax havens represent. SV is concerned that the housing market is suffering from structural problems as a result of a lack of regulation, a distorted tax system and lack of housing in some press areas. Like a number of economists, we are concerned about the increased debt burden caused by the heated housing market, especially at a time when many lose their jobs and the economy shows clear signs of cooling down. Today’s organisation of the housing market increases social disparities and shifts an unacceptable risk to ordinary homeowners. This week, the majority had a chance to lower the tax on low and ordinary incomes and rather increase the tax on property for more redistribution and financial stability. It's a shame that that chance wasn't used. SV looks forward to the introduction of a financial service charge in 2017. SV was alone about going to the elections at this position in 2013, and now there is a unanimous growth that is included. We are very pleased about that. There is no reason for the financial industry to have more favourable conditions than other industrial activities. We see the need to investigate the digitisation of the payment system in Norway. The development of block chain technology and digital currency is fast, and the UK central bank is working on the issue of a central bank-controlled digital currency, so-called RScoin. Such a currency could reduce the spread of illegal transactions, such as money laundering and tax evasion, and give the central bank a completely different monetary policy control over the amount of money than today. We should gain more knowledge also in Norway, so we are promoting proposals for an investigation of digital Norwegian kroner. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e573	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e576	The fall in oil prices since the summer of 2014 has contributed to lower growth and increased unemployment in the Norwegian economy. Lower interest rates contribute to sustaining the growth of final consumption expenditure and investment. Weaker crowns also support under-production by enterprises that compete with the rest of the world. Financial policy now has an expansive impact on the economy. Solid banks with the ability to borrow money for good projects are important for the conversion of Norwegian business. Norwegian financial institutions had a good financial year in 2015, especially banks had large profits. A substantial part of the surplus has been used to strengthen the soundness of the situation in line with the phase-in of new capital requirements. Norwegian banks are currently well capitalised on an international scale. Norwegian financial activities contribute to value creation both directly, for employees and for other parts of the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian financial market is rich in structural diversity. Norwegian insurance corporations, pension funds, savings banks, commercial banks, Norwegian financial infrastructure and foreign actors contribute to diversity. Financial markets are becoming more international, but we need a solid Norwegian financial environment. Norwegian banks collect a lot of their funding abroad. The government wants to disseminate knowledge about the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian financial industry also internationally. As part of a comprehensive industrial policy for the financial industry, the government is committed to making the soundness of Norwegian banks visible. The Ministry of Finance has sent a proposal for rules on unweighted core capital. Such legislation will make Norwegian banks more visible and have a high level of capital. The Norwegian financial industry is well advanced internationally in the use of cost-effective electronic solutions. Technology development and digitisation provide opportunities for increased efficiency and value creation. The government will continue to facilitate innovation and competition in financial services. Norwegian life insurance enterprises and pension funds manage large amounts on behalf of customers. Investment in infrastructure can provide long-term and stable returns. However, small pension funds are invested in these types of enterprises. In the Communication, the Government announces that we will consider changes in legislation to facilitate private pension funds to be invested more in infrastructure. At the same time, pensions must be safe. It is essential that financial supervision is effectively supervised by financial institutions in Norway. Such supervision also contributes to compliance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted. Financial supervision can prevent and detect offences and generally contribute to increased transparency in financial markets. I note that a majority of the Financial Committee stresses the importance of enabling the Financial Supervisory Authority to exercise effective supervision of financial institutions in Norway, so that any organisation and contribution to tax evasion is prevented or revealed. At all times and within the current budgetary framework, financial supervision must give priority to tasks contributing to the achievement of those main objectives. This implies that a risk-based approach is used as the basis for supervisory priorities. Financial supervision, through its supervisory activities, can help to reduce the risk of banks facilitating illegal activities. The assessment and follow-up of tax relationships are initially the responsibility of the tax authorities. I consider that the Financial Supervisory Authority has and has had sufficient mandate, basis and resources to carry out its work in line with the objectives and governance signals given. In line with the setting, I want to make sure that this will also be the case in the future. The Ministry of Finance believes that the current monetary policy guidelines provide a good framework for the exercise of monetary policy by Norway’s Bank. The regulation states that Norway’s Bank’s operational implementation of monetary policy should focus on low and stable inflation, defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time is close to 2.5 pst. In the short and medium term, monetary policy shall weigh the consideration of low and stable inflation towards stability in production and employment. The Ministry does not find any basis for comments on the exercise of monetary policy by Norway Bank in 2015. The financial industry is a major and important industry, both through the 50 000 skilled workplaces in the industry and as a crucial infrastructure for all other Norwegian businesses. The financial industry has been shown to be resilient in meeting new technological opportunities. At a time when Norwegian business is undergoing a demanding transition, solid banks are also a competitive advantage. Solid banks are well equipped to pursue an offensive industrial policy for their own industry. The authorities have made stricter demands on industry in recent years and the financial market notification for 2015 shows that the industry has delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e615	I'll come back to something I mentioned in my post, and it's related to the fact that in some phase a majority in the Storting wants one at least to look closer to about 20 pst. weighting related to municipal borrowing is the appropriate level. It's strangely loud. Government parties have not been included in this setting. I think this is important. Much depends on the fact that loans in the bond market which are not regulated by the EU capital requirements are higher than those in the country. It was about homework earlier this year, so I ask, is the Minister of Finance willing to take this as a little homework, so that we get more knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e622	I have, as a previous speaker also mentioned, presented in the Communication an assessment of the EEA legislation on loans to municipalities. It is our clear assessment that the EU legislation on banks does not allow the establishment of a risk weight on loans to Norwegian municipalities and county councils corresponding to the risk weight on loans to the Norwegian State, due to differences in tax authorities, institutional schemes and risks. For insurance, the complementary acts have not been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but we have developed a rule in Norway that is parallel to the rule for banks. The lowest possible risk weight for loans to municipalities is therefore within the meaning of the 20 pst Directive. On this basis, the risk weight for loans to municipalities is also set at 20 pst. But I hear what the representative Hagebakken says, and it will be fully possible for the government to come back to the Storting with additional explanations on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e629	Firstly, I would like to thank you for the positive twist at the end of the article. I could comment on something that was said along the way, but I should rather switch to a different relationship, and that is when private pensions are now to be invested in infrastructure, which we agree with. So in his contribution, the Minister of Finance says how important it is with the security of pensions. Of course, we agree on that – it should just be missing. But I also think there is a need for infrastructure security, so why is it the trouble for government parties to be involved in highlighting the importance of social security and preparedness in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e634	There is a reason why this is not part of the legislation today, but we have now said that in some cases infrastructure investments may be well suited to providing long-term and stable returns on pension capital of life insurance corporations and pension funds. It is important for me to stress that it is very important that risk-taking is sound, so that pension capital is not exposed to increased risks and losses. We have had a good regulatory framework for this in Norway, and from the turn of the year we have had a new regulatory framework, namely the EU Solvency II legislation for insurance companies. As we have announced in the communication, the government will consider changes to the legislation. I will come back to it in an appropriate way in Stortinget when we have assessed this in its full width.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e639	Does the representative Hagebakken want a third line?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e642	Yes, if there are no more people who want a reply, I can take another question to the Council of State, and I will promise that it will. Does the Council of State think it is a good idea to set up a sample that looks at rules and measures to ensure the sustainability of the free police system? There's someone here who thinks it's a good idea, and it would be very nice if the council were also of that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e647	A freelancer is a finally paid contract. Customers with free cops are guaranteed an annual minimum return in the form of an annual guaranteed interest rate. It's embedded in the contract. The amount of the annual interest rate varies from contract to contract and is typically higher for older contracts than for newer ones. The average return guarantee is about 3 pst. annually, and for most customers it will be a good annual guarantee, it is higher than the guarantees offered by companies on new contracts. If the return is higher than the guaranteed interest, the customer will also enjoy it. In line with the proposal of the Banking Commission, the Stoltenberg II Government promoted a legislative proposal that free police holders and companies who so wish may choose on a voluntary basis to terminate the free police contract with guaranteed interest and instead enter into a new contract with investment funds. But that's the customer's choice. Today's legislation balances in a good way customer considerations and insurance companies' desire to reduce the guarantees in the portfolios, and I am so glad that the majority is stuck to the public regulation of customer rights for free policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e653	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e669	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e685	According to § 69 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, the questioner can have the floor to justify his question for up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e688	Let me read from the Basic Law § 115, first paragraph: ‘In order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order and cooperation, the Grand Duchy may, by a three-quarters majority, agree that an international association to which Norway is a member or a member shall, in a restricted area, have the right to exercise powers conferred by this Constitution on the authorities of the State, but not the power to amend that Constitution. In order to give consent to the Storting, such as when considering constitutional proposals, at least two thirds of its members should be present.» What's important in that section is, of course, the whole thing. But it says: «is connected or connected». [[...]] So under the Basic Law, we're not allowed to give power to an organ we're not a member of. That is what the government is asking us to do – give us power from the Norwegian pottery and from the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to Brussels, to the EU and to the European Financial Supervisory Authority. As the President knows, the Norwegian people have said no to the EU twice. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen referred to this matter as extremely difficult when she was at an urgent hearing in the spring of the Financial Committee. Let me quote from the proposition made by the government: ‘It is an underlying assumption in the negotiated model that, shortly after receipt of such a draft by the relevant EU supervisory authority, the EFTA Surveillance Authority will take a similar or similar decision.’;» So it's a clean copy decision, as it says in the proposition. After the hearing, Professor Eivind Smith has expressed his opinion on this solution. He said: ‘The solution of the government will have the Storting on, is most of a purely formalistic approach to the requirements for the transfer of authority in the Constitution.’ At NRK State Secretary Vamraak this week came with new information: «The back of the medal is, of course, that we are not free to introduce as strict regulations as we would like from the Norwegian side.» We have been informed through the media that there should be one man to make copy decisions in ESA. The government has given the impression that there will be extensive competence. We've been informed through the media that there's going to be one man named Per Christian Bærøe who's going to make clean copy decisions. He said himself: «No one knows how this will work in the future». What we are going to deal with faster than we are dealing with a common proposal for a representative is the largest waiver of sovereignty Norway has had since 1992. We'll deal with this in a hurry in Stortinget. We decided to make progress on a Tuesday, had a hearing on a Thursday, and we don't have much time to get involved in the different counter performances. What we've also seen is that through the process from it was only the centre party that was concerned at first, SV has become very clear, the Christian People's Party has expressed uncertainty, and we see in today's media that Progress Party representatives express uncertainty as to whether this is a proper way to deal with this matter. After we had the matter at the hearing, the State Council of Aspaker has also stated that this template – this solution – will be a template for later questions of the same type and nature. It is a big question of principle that we are now going to decide on without having the heavy constitutional counter-representations that we have been given, and which, not least, Professor Eivind Smith has stated, may be contrary to what is stated in the Constitution § 115. That is why we have sent this question. We want this kind of question to be dealt with properly. Then our question is: Will the presidency, on the basis of its responsibilities under Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, ensure a deferred release to light up the important constitutional counter-representations and ensure that decisions are taken in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e728	The next speaker is Prime Minister Marit Nybakk, who will answer the question on behalf of the presidency. Then the questioner can have the word for an article of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e733	My reply on behalf of the Presidency will focus on the procedure and the relationship between the decision of the committees and the Presidency in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has explained here, he has asked questions to the presidency of 31 May 2016 in conjunction with, as he writes, the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 69. The representative asks whether the presidency will, on the basis of its responsibilities under Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, ensure that the suspension of the Norwegian referral to the European Financial Supervisory Authority will be postponed in order to highlight constitutional counter-representations and ensure that decisions are taken in accordance with the Constitution. Among other things, he points. on the constitutional aspects, as we have also heard here, including the issue of the precedent for the treatment of Norway’s links with other EU supervisory authorities and agencies. I am not now commenting on the political realities of the matter – that is what the committee is going to do, and it is going to be dealt with by the Stortinget later. However, according to Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency is to oversee the committee's delivery deadlines, i.e.: that the deadlines are in line with the provisional long-term programme for Stortinget and that the adjustment is made in accordance with the deadlines. The Presidency may convene meetings of the chairmen of the Committee on the time-limits for submission and the work of the committees on matters. After the Chairman of the Committee has been given an opportunity to comment, the Presidency may provide for a different period of time from that of the Committee, or may set a time limit in a case in which the Committee has not done so — continue under Section 32. The purpose of § 32 is to ensure that the prescribed work plan is followed and that the time limits of the Committee fit into the long-term programme for the work of the Stortinge. It has not been necessary for the Presidency to review the technical and political evaluations carried out in the Scientific Committees, once the Committee has determined the time needed to deal with a matter. When the current wording of the provision was adopted in 2005, the Presidency gave its suspension provided that such Presidency intervention is only exceptionally assumed to be applicable and that the starting point should continue to be in line with current practice, namely that, with the exception of the budget, the Committees themselves set deadlines based on an assessment of the scope of the case, the political content and other tasks. The members of the Finance Committee, sitting here, know this very well. On this basis, the Presidency does not consider it appropriate to take any initiative on the matter. But it is the case that the Stortinge in plenary will have the opportunity to decide on the question of a possible postponement of this matter when the Stortinge considers the financial committee's position in a few days' time. Then, of course, the representative will also be able to bring forward proposals for repatriation to Vedum and the Centre, or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e754	As Vice President Marit Nybakk says, the presidency can intervene exceptionally. Ours and my assessment is that this should have been such an exception. We know from the committee reading that the committee was initially open for longer periods of time. Then the government itself has given its clear signals that they want to get the pressure through this as quickly as possible. But I don't think we should take our responsibilities so easily that we should simply push through a matter that is so big, so heavy and so extensive, and that has such heavy constitutional aspects, not least when we have had such heavy objections after the matter has been brought to our attention. Professor Eivind Smith is one of the country's leading experts on our constitution, we also use him as an adviser in designing our proposals for constitutional changes, and when he comes up with such strong warnings and counter-conceptions, I don't think it's responsible that we're going to rush this matter through. Our assessment is that the presidency has a general responsibility for the proper clarification of matters dealt with here, that they bring forward the various counter-representations, and we have a collective responsibility to intervene, especially when something may conflict with the Constitution. This unnecessary time pressure is about the government's performance, and the government's performance is not our responsibility. Our responsibility is to ensure that our matters are treated decently, properly and properly, and that all counter performances are illuminated. Unlike many other things, we're going to give up sovereignty here, so we don't have the undo button that we have in budgetary matters. We're going to give up the power of another body, of which we're not a member. That's why it's all the more important that we take the extra rounds, and that's why the Center Party and I believe it's right that we involve the presidency, and that the presidency should dry up in principle on behalf of the Storting, not on the basis of such a government loyalty that very often comes into the committee, where it becomes more important with the prestige of the Council of State and that the government should have progress, than taking care of the important constitutional rules we have in Stortinget. So we're going to promote the proposal again, and I think it's a shame that the presidency doesn't want to say that we have to take a little better time to deal with such a big and so heavy case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e761	Now the representative is using the Battle Violence Vedum expressions The Stortinget and the presidency a little bit about each other. Of course, there is nothing in the way that, when the Financial Committee presents this matter to the plenary, the Stortinge may propose a postponement. But that is what happens in the Storting, and it is not the case that the presidency does so under Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, because it is about the presidency's supervision that the committees set deadlines for the voting, and that the voting is given in accordance with the deadline, as I also said in my first post. The Presidency shall not review the policy assessments, the practical assessments or the professional assessments of a committee when a progress plan is drawn up. The main issue of the Presidency in terms of progress is that the Stortinget and the Stortinge Committees organise their work in an appropriate way, to put it that way. Then there is a provision in Section 23, and it is that when discussing progress plans in a committee, a minority of at least one third of committee members may bring it before the presidency – the second paragraph of Section 23 is concerned. However, once the Committee has finally established a progress plan, the Presidency will not overdo it. Occasionally, the request of a committee to postpone a discharge is correct. It is not an application available at the Presidency's table now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e770	That being the case, it is no. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e776	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e783	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 8, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 9-11, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of the Left and the Left Party, proposals Nos. 12–15, by Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 16, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 16. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose how SPU can actively contribute to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions and replacing fossil energy sources with renewable energy sources or CO2 capture and storage throughout the fossil value chain. Among other things, a fixed-term measure shall be determined to gradually replace all investments in fossil energy production with investments in renewable energy or fossil energy production with CO2 capture and storage across the whole value chain. It shall also be explored to change the Fund’s investment mandate so that investments can be considered in line with climate objectives, inter alia, by changing the reference index and related regulation.’;» The voting boards showed that 94 votes were cast against and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 11.11.55]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e819	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e824	This means that the Green Party's proposal, by 95 votes to one, is not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–15, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to log SPU themes related to the different expectations documents addressed in meetings with companies. The logging of themes in company dialogues must be used to assess the development of companies over time, so that the use of the instrument can be adapted. The expectations raised in relation to which companies must be made available to the public through the annual SPU report on responsible investment activities.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that NBIM moves its subsidiaries away from closed jurisdictions.’ 14 reads: ‘The government asks NBIM to notify relevant tax authorities if NBIM discovers unethical tax practices among the companies in the portfolio.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of unethical tax practices and tax evasion among the extractive criteria in the SPU ethical guidelines.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e858	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Left and the Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to develop a strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy in the State pension fund abroad.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that guidelines are drawn up for State pension funds abroad that require the fund to withdraw from oil and gas companies with 25 pst. higher carbon emissions per unit produced than the industry average.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the rights of indigenous peoples, enshrined in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Native Peoples and the ILO Convention No. 169, and the employee rights enshrined in the ILO’s core conventions, are given a greater place in the SPU’s human rights expectation document.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e886	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e902	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to open up the possibility for SPU to invest in unlisted infrastructure as proposed by the Bank of Norway, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of security at first, in order to gain experience and build skills.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e918	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing SPU from gambling companies.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing SPU from alcohol companies.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e941	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for sovereign debt, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with an assessment of State pension funds operating abroad in tax havens and how to limit them’. Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-ethical tax practices and tax evasion are actively followed up in the ownership dialogue of NBIM.’ Proposal No. 4: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the exclusion of the State pension fund from weapons which, in normal use, conflict with basic humanitarian principles also includes companies that produce nuclear weapons, nuclear infrastructure, nuclear equipment or services related to the production, maintenance and use of nuclear weapons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1032	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of the Group of the European Centre for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, and the Left-wing proposal No. 5 and 6, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the introduction of digital Norwegian krona, initially in addition to today’s physical currency.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to work towards the establishment of a global mandatory register of financial values.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1070	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is requesting the prompt introduction of reduced capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises under EU capital requirements legislation.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes as soon as possible so that the weighting of loans to municipalities is set at 0 pst.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1093	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a body mandated to propose rules and measures to help ensure that guaranteed free police can be managed in a more sustainable manner. The recommendations of the Committee should be available for reference in the 2016 financial market notification.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1109	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that banks’ access to risk through activities other than the core business is further limited beyond what is currently regulated by Norwegian banking and group law.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1151	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-03.ana.ud1422e1163	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will only remind the representatives that the Grand Summit will begin at 6 a.m. on Monday 6 June. 10, if someone hasn't brought it. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
