ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e39	Representatives Gunvor Eldegard, Knut Storberget, Kenneth Svendsen, Bente Thorsen, Regina Alexandrova, Arild Grande, André N. Skkelstad and Sonja Mandt, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen For Telemark County: Lise Wiik, Sven Tore Løkslid and Hanne Thürmer From the representative of Ms Lene Vågslid, application is made for the period from 7 November to 4 December to be extended until 11 December. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Lise Wiik, is proposed to continue to meet during the period of leave until 9 December. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From 8 November to 10 November, Mr Bård Hoksrud, representative of the Group of the Progressive Alliance, is requested to take part in the election as an observer to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the presidential elections in the United States. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Telemark County, Kristian Norheim, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of Bård Hoksrud for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. The Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e125	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e130	On behalf of Kirsti Bergstø, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I will put forward proposals to amend the driving regulations to apply the Railway Act of 11 June 1993 No. 100, § 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e135	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e151	The last six months have been challenging for the EU and for Europe. The United Kingdom has voted through a referendum to withdraw from the EU. This has been one too many wakers. Strong flows in several European countries do not want closer integration, more globalisation or more European cooperation. Increased migration and the large number of refugees have put European cooperation and solidarity to the test. At the same time, we again experienced terrible terrorist attacks in several European cities, including Nice, Istanbul and Brussels. Anxiety and fear in the population put pressure on new policies and solutions. We struggle to deal with a reality where the threat of terror has become a part of everyday life. The question is which way to go. Many believe that we need to rebuild our borders and find national solutions. Others believe that it is just now that we need to strengthen cooperation between countries, fences for solidarity, pull the load and solve the challenges together. We must not become entangled in a general crisis mood. We need to analyse in depth the challenges we face and meet them with appropriate and sustainable measures. Just the ability to meet cross-border challenges and find good joint solutions is what we expect the EU to contribute in the first place. History has shown that Europe can come out of crisis. Thanks to committed international cooperation, we have doubled global value creation since 1990. For me, it is therefore important to stress that work continues as before in the EU bodies. Sustainable growth and higher employment are still the aim of the Commission's and Member States' agendas. The United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU will not take place overnight but will be a time-consuming and complex process. The announcement negotiations will begin when, in line with Article 50 of the EU Treaty, the British Government informs the European Council of the decision to leave the Union. Prime Minister Theresa May has indicated that it will take place by March 2017. A British court last week stated that the government cannot trigger Article 50 without Parliament's consent. The feeling is not legal, and the British government has said it will appeal. The case will therefore be decided by the British Supreme Court. After the triggering of Article 50, the parties will have two years to reach an agreement. That period may be extended if there is agreement among the parties. If no agreement is reached, the United Kingdom will automatically cease its membership. Article 50 does not regulate only the announcement agreement itself – that is, the ‘divorce’ itself – the new agreement to regulate the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. Outcome negotiations will clarify a number of practical issues – ranging from the responsibility for pensions to UK EU officials to issues that contribute to the EU budget until discharge. The disfellowshipping agreement shall be designed pursuant to Article 50 to facilitate the transition to the new agreement with the EU. However, the negotiations themselves on the new agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom will follow separately. There is also no time limit for the conclusion of this new agreement. The British will also have to establish their own future trade policy regime in the WTO and bilaterally with countries other than the EU, including Norway. For the government, it is important to ensure the continued functioning of the EEA Agreement even after Brexit. This will also apply to our other legal framework. When the United Kingdom leaves the EU, it is assumed that it will also withdraw from the EEA Agreement, as the EEA Agreement is intended to apply to countries that are either EU members or EFTA members. The outsourcing procedures are set out in Article 127 of the EEA Agreement. In contrast to the provisions of the EU Treaty, Article 127 does not presuppose negotiations on a call-out agreement with the remaining EFTA States and EU members. The government's ambition is that, after Brexit, we should have as good cooperation with the United Kingdom as today, and equal access to the British market for Norwegian business. We will work to ensure that the necessary transitional arrangements are in place when the United Kingdom withdraws from EU cooperation. It is also important to clarify that the EU has a common commercial policy and to conclude trade agreements on behalf of the Member States. The British will be able to conclude new trade agreements only after the withdrawal is a fact. Until the United Kingdom leaves the EU and the EEA, our trade relations with the United Kingdom are regulated by the EEA Agreement and our own agreements with the EU for fish and agriculture. Prime Minister Theresa May made it early clear that the British want a tailor-made agreement with the EU and that neither a Norwegian nor a Swiss solution were current alternatives. At the national meeting of the Conservative Party, May made this concrete by signaling that the government wants an agreement to limit labour immigration from EU countries. She also stated that there is no room for full participation in the internal market and the acceptance of the four freedoms it entails. Therefore, the EEA Agreement does not appear to be a current option for the United Kingdom. Norway’s relationship with the EU, however, is an important reference to the discussions on possible solutions. The British have therefore shown great interest in learning more about our agreement with the EU. Norway will have an active approach to safeguard Norwegian interests in the light of the forthcoming debriefing negotiations and in the light of the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. The work on promoting our views towards the EU and the United Kingdom is already well under way and has a high priority. We have had close contact with the British side and, among other things, had conversations in Berlin, Paris, Warsaw and the Nordic region. The government emphasises the need to ensure a stable and predictable framework and market access for Norwegian industry in the United Kingdom, even after Brexit. We have been assured that the British side also wants that. It is too early to say anything about the form of agreement, but it would be in Norway's interest to maintain close trade policy cooperation with the United Kingdom and equal access to the UK market as today, while maintaining the EEA Agreement and other agreements with Norway with the EU. The government assesses the impact on Norway of brexit and through the departments will have extensive contact with relevant interests. As part of the work, the impact of Brexit on security and foreign policy will also be assessed. The size will be kept informed about the work. Despite the fact that the rise in the European economy may appear to be slowing down due to the uncertainty generated by brexit, the main picture remains a moderate upsurge in the euro area. An expansionary monetary policy, easier access to credit, low oil prices and a certain fiscal stimulus brought growth back in the first six months. The growth in private consumption was strong. Investments also increased slightly. In line with the general improvement in the labour market, youth unemployment has also begun to decline. However, there are considerable differences between countries, and the proportion of youth unemployed is significant in some Member States and regions. Free economic capacity has slowed down inflation in the euro area. The fall in oil and gas prices is also strongly contributing. In order to stimulate the economy and counter the risk of deflation, the European Central Bank keeps its interest rate at a record low, at 0 p.m., and buys large amounts of bonds in the market. The economic agenda includes completion of the Capital Markets Union, improvement of the internal market and better coordination and governance of economic policies. This includes, inter alia: closer euro cooperation and coordination within international organisations such as the IMF. The EU is seeking new financial support through reforms and increased investment. The Commission has proposed to extend and strengthen the three-year investment plan. By 2020, at least 500 billion will be accounted for. euro in increased investment. In addition to mobilising investment through the newly established European Investment Fund, the Commission wishes to discover more and reduce barriers to investment. Increased competitiveness and value creation are one of the main priorities of the government of European policy. We follow this up by cooperating with the EU institutions and Member States on innovation, research and education. Norway's participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, is one example. Participation in the Erasmus+ training cooperation is another. Through Norwegian participation, we want to strengthen Norway’s future competitiveness. We have therefore taken the initiative to increase the return share of EU funds that benefit Norwegian research, innovation and education environments. The implementation of the European Commission’s strategies for a digital internal market and for the internal market, respectively, could contribute to increased growth and employment. Norway follows up the actions of the two strategies and has invited consultations in a number of areas, including cross-border parcel delivery, audiovisual media services and consumer contracts. In addition, Norway has, among other things: participating in the European Commission’s consultations and taking the initiative of an EFTA comments on service passports – or European service cards, as it is now called. Norway has developed a comprehensive consultation exercise related to the use of so-called digital platforms. The Commission’s recent proposal for a new regulatory framework for electronic communications is now the subject of a national process with an actor’s meeting and the preparation of the Norwegian position. Furthermore, the government has started to prepare the EEA integration and national implementation of the new EU Data Protection Regulation, which was adopted in the EU in April. At the same time, national implementation of the new EU Schengen Directive on the processing of personal data in the criminal justice chain is being prepared. For more than 60 years, the Nordic social and welfare model has demonstrated a unique capacity for change. What we have achieved in the Nordic region is a model for how committed cooperation can contribute to prosperity, security and stability. The Government’s 2017 Nordic Cooperation Presidency Programme for Norway shall also contribute to high Nordic visibility in Brussels. The Presidency has three pillars: the Nordics in transition, the Nordics in Europe and the Nordics in the world. By investing in the Nordic countries in Europe, we want to see more joint participations in areas where the Nordic countries share common interests. Thematically, we will focus on three areas where we believe the Nordic region has both interest and potential to influence European policy development: climate and environment, energy and digitisation. We need to use regional cooperation strategically and make use of available instruments at national, regional and international level. The INTERREG programme, Nordic support schemes, EEA funds and the EU research and innovation programme Horizon 2020 are examples of such instruments. The government sees it as a task to help Norwegian environments benefit from the EU research and innovation programme and to cooperate across borders. Innovation and competitiveness are also central to the Presidency Programme. Among other things, we will implement projects to strengthen the green transition and competitiveness of Nordic cities. Strengthening Nordic cooperation is also important in the field of climate and energy. The Presidency wants to further develop Nordic energy cooperation related to renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement, R & D and energy technology. We can learn from each other in these areas. Nordic energy cooperation, and in particular the Nordic electricity market, is a concrete example of how successful Nordic cooperation has had an impact on the design of European energy policies and the European energy market. A new action plan for Nordic energy policy cooperation for the period 2018 to 2021 shall also be established. In line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, Nordic cooperation shall also contribute to an ambitious and effective European climate policy. Digitalisation is a core component of the development of European competitiveness. Norway will therefore, in cooperation with its neighbouring Nordic countries, contribute to the development of a well-functioning digital internal market. A Nordic-Baltic Ministerial Conference on Digitalisation is planned for spring. Migration and integration are among the major political, social and economic challenges of our time. A wide-ranging Nordic cooperation programme for integration is now being launched. We will further support under this with Presidency projects. The development and exchange of knowledge and practices in this area will be emphasised. My hope is that Nordic cooperation will inspire new European solutions in many fields. The EU has four northern regions and the Arctic more of its attention. The EU started work on its own Arctic policy almost ten years ago. From the Norwegian side, we have had a good dialogue with the European institutions and the Member States. Our message has been that EU Arctic policy must be enshrined in international law and that the legal framework for the Arctic Ocean is the law of the sea. Furthermore, we have recorded that Arctic Council is the primary forum for cooperation and dialogue between the eight Arctic states. At the same time, we recognise that forums such as the Barents Council and the Northern Dimension are central to good cooperation in the north. The EU is an important partner in climate and environmental issues and in research. The EU is also an important partner in cross-border and regional cooperation in the north through Interreg. EU Foreign Affairs Council discussed the EU Arctic Declaration on 20 June this year. While recognising the primary responsibilities of the Arctic States, the Council considers that many issues can be addressed more effectively through regional or multilateral cooperation. In particular, Arctic Councils and Barents’ cooperation are being drawn up by the EU. The European Parliament will examine the notification during the autumn. From the Norwegian side, we have good dialogue at all levels to achieve maximum understanding of Norwegian priorities. Sustainable exploitation of the northern sea areas is in line with Norwegian interests. In this area, the Communication is relatively balanced and provides a good basis for constructive dialogue with the EU in the future. At the EU summit in Bratislava in September, it was underlined that the control of migration into Europe is one of the main issues of EU cooperation. Better control and registration of those crossing the EU's external borders has been achieved. This, together with national measures, has resulted in a significant decrease in the number of refugees and migrants arriving in northern Europe. In September, a new legal basis was adopted for Frontex. This shall contribute to strengthening control at the external border of the Schengen area. Norway, together with Sweden, Germany, Austria and Denmark, took the initiative to extend temporary internal border controls because we believe that the refugee situation is still challenging for Europe and because the control of the Schengen external border is still insufficient. The Commission has recommended that the internal border control should be extended by three months. The matter must be decided later this week. Return and withdrawal are another important area. We are now discussing how to ensure a sustainable refugee and migration policy. The Commission has proposed changes to the rules of the Common European Asylum System during the summer. This is done to achieve a more effective and consistent practice. The government wants a more balanced and fairer distribution of asylum seekers in Europe, and we support the proposal for a new distribution mechanism in the Dublin Regulation. Discussions on the operation of such a system are under way. Norway participates for the first time in the treatment of amendments to the Dublin Regulation by the Asylum Working Party. Political understanding reached between the EU and Turkey in March immediately limits the number of refugees and migrants arriving in Greece. There are still unresolved issues related to visa liberalisation, and the political situation in Turkey also undermines cooperation. Migrants still come to the Greek islands and, in particular, to Italy. Few return to Turkey. As a result of better controls and registrations, fewer migrants travel from Greece and Italy. This means that a large number of asylum seekers and migrants are collected in these countries. This puts the national systems under great pressure. As of 27 October, 6 399 people are relocated from Italy and Greece to other Member States. The number may seem small, but there is a positive trend in the number of cases recorded for relocalisation, and the number of locations in the Member States is available. Norway made the first places available to Italy at the end of August, equivalent to Greece at the end of September. The first have now come to Norway from Italy. The aim is to make 750 seats available by the end of 2016. The proposal for a new Dublin Regulation provides for a permanent redistribution mechanism. The criteria for this mechanism are now being discussed in the EU. The Commission has proposed the establishment of an Asylum Agency to replace the current Asylum Support Office, EASO. The aim of the changes is for the Agency to have a stronger role in the implementation of common asylum legislation and a strengthened operational role. Norway has a link with the EASO, which gives us the full right to participate in all the activities of the Agency. Through these agencies, Norwegian experts have been tasked in countries that are under special pressure. Of the 3500 resettlement sites provided by Norway in 2015, 1,769 refugees have arrived in Norway. Norway is among the countries that have offered most places to Syrian quota refugees from Turkey. In 2016, Norway is expected to receive 600 people. 588 persons are so far granted resettlement under the EU–Turkey understanding. By means of the EEA funds, EUR 24 million is provided. euro in support of various migration projects in Greece. The government wants to extend cooperation in the migration field with other beneficiary countries during the next EEA funding period. Improved European crisis management capability is a strength for the international community and for Norway. Therefore, Norway will actively participate in the EU’s efforts to develop and strengthen military capabilities. This strengthens our own and European defence capabilities – and our ability to operate together. Since the British voted in favour of Brexit in June, several initiatives have been launched by central EU countries to strengthen European cooperation in defence and security policy. One example is the French and German defence ministers, who in September presented proposals for strengthening European defence cooperation. At the bottom is also the EU’s global strategy, presented by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of the Commission, Frederica Mogherini, to EU Heads of State or Government in June. A great deal is currently unclear about these initiatives. This concerns both the specific content of the proposals, the positions of the other EU Member States and the level of ambition that the EU will eventually have. The outlines of the proposals, discussion and ambition will be clearer in the coming weeks. Perhaps some of what is now on the table in the EU may lead to Europeans contributing more in the field of defence. There has been a clear demand from the United States over many years. A stronger and more coordinated EU is good for Europe and European security. This is good for Norwegian interests. The challenge arises if developments in the EU lead to a more unclear division of roles between the EU and NATO, to parallel structures between the EU and NATO, or to competition for the same resources. This will weaken both organisations and Europe's position. Both NATO and the EU ensure that this is avoided. We need a strong EU, a strong NATO and close cooperation between the two. The EU and the NATO Joint Declaration of the Warsaw Summit were a good and proper step in this direction – a step that is now being followed up by concrete cooperation. If we are to overcome cross-border serious crime, European countries must help each other, exchange information and coordinate their efforts. The networks that organise human trafficking show a great deal of greed and cynicism, and the greatest are acting at international level. Norway is often in the ‘recipient’ of the smuggling chain, while the principals may be based in other countries. This makes significant demands for international police cooperation. Norway, through Operation Triton, has identified traffickers among migrants and made evidence assurances, which are then handed over to the authorities of the recipient country for further investigation. The government therefore wants to strengthen cooperation with the EU on the police and criminal justice side. The aim is to be better equipped in the fight against the networks that organise trafficking, trafficking in human beings, profit-criminalism and distribution of material containing sexual abuse against children. The government will also intensify cooperation with the EU on preparedness for terrorist attacks, natural disasters and other serious threats. Norway shall participate, inter alia: active in the EU Civil Protection Coordination Mechanism. The mechanism provides Norway with valuable assistance from other countries in crisis situations where our own capacity does not extend to or become exhausted. Norway is increasingly using the mechanism and has made use of funding opportunities for, inter alia: national exercises and transport costs. Norway is also taking the lead in the fight against violent extremism. The Norwegian action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism was launched in 2014. The background was, among other things, a need for more knowledge, cooperation and coordination — both locally and nationally. There was also a need for more international cooperation. In order to ensure relevance to societal development and changes to the threat picture, the action plan is dynamic and has also gained considerable international recognition. Norway participates in a number of international forums in the field, and we have a close exchange of information with many EU countries. We still want to be closely linked to the EU in this field. We participate in the so-called Belgium Group, a ministerial cooperation forum that takes place in connection with the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers meetings in the EU. A selection of countries with specific challenges related to the problem of foreign fighters, discuss actions here and exchange information. Several Norwegian actors participate and also actively contribute to the Radicalisation Awareness Network, which provides mutual empowerment, inter alia. for first line employees. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice and Defence have commissioned the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, to establish a pilot scheme for recruiting and sending out response teams with health skills for international action. Health resources are thus added to the established response team schemes of the DSB. The new response teams comply with the requirements of the WHO and EU Emergency Medical Teams Approval Regulations and should be able to be made available to the EU. On 12 December 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted. The agreement is the first legally binding climate agreement in which all countries shall have nationally determined contributions for emission reductions. In addition, countries may choose to have nationally defined contributions for adaptation, financing, capacity building and technology development and transfer. Norway has entered into a contingent liability of at least 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. Norway’s intention is to fulfil the commitment with the EU, which EU countries welcomed at the Environment Council meeting in September 2015. Norway formally ratified the Paris Agreement on 20 June, while the EU ratified the Agreement on 4 October and the threshold for entry into force was reached. The Paris Agreement thus entered into force on 4 November this year. Norway is currently participating in the EU ETS, covering a large proportion of emissions from industry, petroleum, energy supply and aviation. In addition, in an agreement with the EU on the joint achievement of the 2030 climate change target, we will work together on reducing emissions in the so-called non-quota sector, which mainly includes emissions from transport, agriculture, construction and waste management. In the summer, the European Commission presented its proposal for national emission targets for the non-quota sector, the so-called effort allocation regulation. The EU non-quota sector emissions shall be reduced by 30 pst. from 2005 to 2030. The effort needed to meet this objective is allocated among countries by setting a specific target for each country. The measurements shall be in the range 0 to 40 pst. The distribution between countries is based on GDP per capita, so that the richest countries have to cut most. In addition, the objectives of the richest countries shall be adjusted by means of mutual redistribution, taking into account cost-effectiveness. In the Commission’s proposal, the objectives of some of the countries with the highest reduction costs have thus been reduced, while others have been adjusted. Norway is not included in the proposal, but a Norwegian target figure is mentioned in the introduction to the proposal for the effort allocation regulation. Norway is a strong signal that Norway will be involved in cooperation on the basis of the same framework conditions as the Member States. The Commission has provisionally taken the view that Norway’s target for non-quota target could be 40 pst. in relation to the 2005 level. The preliminary Norwegian target has been calculated on the basis of the per capita GDP of Norway. The EU Commission will carry out detailed calculations of a Norwegian emission target for the non-quota sector in months to come. We are in ongoing dialogue with the European Commission on this. The agreement with the EU itself cannot be formally concluded before the EU adopts its legislation. The proposals of the European Commission are now being examined by the Council and Parliament and can be expected to be finally adopted during 2017. The rules on flexibility in the implementation of the emission targets from the current allocation period are proposed to a large extent to be continued in the next period. In addition, the Commission proposes new flexibility mechanisms. Norway will meet the emission target both through the use of flexibility and through emissions reductions in Norway. In line with the biggest notification of the new 2030 emissions obligation, the government has agreed to cooperate with the EU in the form of a bilateral agreement outside the EEA Agreement. However, the European Commission has informally expressed a clear preference for a solution under the EEA Agreement because it would be faster and less resource-intensive to agree on such an agreement. We are also concerned with a fast and flexible negotiation process, and the government is open to consider using Protocol 31 of the EEA Agreement on voluntary cooperation outside the four freedoms. In the Commission's dialogue in the future, the Government will clarify whether, and how, Protocol 31 may be used as a contractual basis. Norway is a reliable and long-term energy supplier to Europe. Norway covers about 25 pst. of total gas demand in the EU. We are also part of the common Nordic and European power market. Power cables between Norway and the continent enable us to buy and sell power on a large scale. We will further increase capacity in the coming years by building links with Germany and the United Kingdom, respectively. EEA cooperation covers 70 legislative acts in the field of energy. Energy markets in Europe are marked by change. The government's message to the EU is that Norway will continue to contribute to European energy security by being a reliable and stable energy supplier and contributing to the necessary transformation through close cooperation and partnerships in the field of energy. Norwegian gas and Norwegian renewable energy are important for Europe, today and in the long term. The development of the Energy Union affects the whole energy sector and cooperation with the EU. Later this autumn, the European Commission is expected to propose new legislation in the field of energy. Several of the proposals may have an impact on us: the review of the Energy Efficiency and Building Energy Directive, new proposals for renewable energy and market design and a strategy for research, innovation and competitiveness under the Energy Union. In addition, legislation will be put in place to provide the framework for the governance of EU countries towards the objectives of the Energy Union. The management system will consist of requirements for streamlining national plans and reporting obligations related to the different energy and climate legislation. The size has in Innst. 401 S for 2015–2016 asked the government to promote a case to the Stortingen on how the EU Energy Union will affect Norway. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is planning to come back with a case about this in the spring of 2017. The EEA funds are an important tool in the implementation of the government’s European policy. We have to work with the 15 recipient countries to create a green, competitive and inclusive Europe. Innovation, growth and jobs shall be stimulated through their own innovation, business development and research programmes. We shall also use our resources to promote an offensive climate policy that contributes to low-carbon development through our own renewable energy and energy efficiency programmes. We will help to make countries more adaptable to climate change and make their ecosystems more robust. We will focus more on support for judicial cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries, including police, asylum and migration cooperation. Here all European countries have a common responsibility, and we can build on the experience we have had in Greece during the current period. In addition to these efforts, it is about helping to create an inclusive Europe at a time when there are trends in fragmentation and populism. We continue to support civil society through our own NGO programmes. Civil society is under pressure in several places, and our support is very important. In addition, the situation of minorities in several countries is also difficult. We want to strengthen their participation in politics and society and protect their rights. Parts of the support will be earmarked for better living conditions for space people. Following the signing of the agreements with the EU on 3 May of this year, negotiations are under way for framework agreements with all the beneficiary countries. The agreements will be signed continuously as they become ready. The first agreement was signed with Romania on 13 October. The ambition is to have all the framework agreements signed by the end of 2017. Thereafter, more detailed agreements shall be drawn up for programmes and projects, and concrete results are expected to be available only a few years in advance. Being a part of Europe is about a common identity linked to fundamental values such as freedom, solidarity and cooperation. Established rules for inter-state interaction are challenged. The basic principles of our liberal democracies are being tested. These developments are very serious and affect the core values of modern Europe. We see violations of international law, violent extremism, terrorism, xenophobia, intolerance, corruption, populism and non-compliance with human rights. These trends are fueled by challenging economic challenges, high unemployment rates, especially among young people, and uncertainty about the future. Respect for fundamental values is a prerequisite for well-functioning democracies. The government will engage in a close dialogue with the EU to ensure respect for established human rights, democratic rules of the game and the rule of law. Through the EEA funds, we contribute to strengthening civil society in our recipient countries. Particular attention is paid to the promotion of human rights, freedom of expression and independent media and the protection of human rights defenders and minorities. In this work, we draw, among other things, on the competence of the Council of Europe and contributes to the implementation of the Council of Europe Conventions on Human Rights. The Article 19 negotiations were launched last February. So far, three negotiating rounds have been carried out, on the last 5 April of this year. A new negotiating meeting will take place on 22 November. So far, negotiations have been constructive. Since the negotiations are still ongoing, I cannot go into the substance here. It is too early to say when an agreement could be concluded. A final agreement will be submitted to the Stortinget. The bodies of the majority will be kept informed in the course of the further negotiation process. Since 2013, the EU and the United States have negotiated a trade and investment agreement, Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP. Negotiations are barely completed before President Obama leaves, but the agreement can become a reality in a few years. Today's presidential elections could also affect the possibilities of an agreement. The EU and the United States are our two main trading partners. The government has therefore obtained an external investigation into the potential impact of TTIP on Norway. The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Affairs delivered its report to the Minister of Economic Affairs on 2 November. The report concludes that a TTIP agreement outside Norway will have moderate positive effects on the Norwegian economy. However, there is considerable variation between sectors. If Norway joins the TTIP, the NUPI estimates that this will have a significant positive impact on value creation in Norway. A clear majority of industries will benefit from Norway joining the TTIP. At the same time, the report shows that Norwegian accession to the TTIP will contribute to the reduction of import protection for Norwegian agriculture. The government will study the TTIP report carefully. It will make an important contribution to our further efforts to assess which road choices may be relevant to Norway. In addition, we will continue to monitor closely the progress of EU-US negotiations. We will maintain the good contact we have established with the two negotiating parties. The framework for electronic communications is an important element of EEA cooperation. In its recently submitted proposal on electronic communications, the Commission proposes to transform the cooperative body of European eco-regulators, BEREC, into a fully-fledged EU agency in which the EEA/EFTA States are to participate. We think this is a breakthrough. On this basis, it is expected that the so-called telecoms package of 2009, such as: establishing BEREC, could now be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The EU legislation on ecology of 2007 and 2008 is not incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This led the Commission to decide in July this year that we can no longer label our salmon as organic in the EU. From this summer, therefore, Norwegian salmon could no longer be traded as organic in the United Kingdom, France and some Länder in Germany. This is an unsustainable situation for Norwegian operators paying for the export of organic salmon to the EU. The Government is committed to safeguarding the interests of both fish and agriculture and has worked for a long time to bring some adaptations in the field of agriculture to EU organic legislation, as well as an adaptation related to the provisions on the labelling of organic products of origin. Unfortunately, we have not achieved this, and we have announced that we will reject these requests for adaptation texts. Norway also relies on Iceland to give its consent to the incorporation of the organic legislation into the EEA Agreement. We are familiar with Iceland's desire for regulatory adaptations. On 13 June 2016, the size decided to allow Norway to participate in decisions of the EEA Committee to incorporate the acts establishing the EU financial supervision into the EEA Agreement. In addition, the Stortinget adopted on 16 June 2016 the EEA Financial Supervision Act. Liechtenstein and the EU approved the inclusion of the acts on the financial supervision system in the EEA Agreement in May and July respectively. Everything in Iceland agreed on 23 September 2016 to include it in the EEA Agreement. This agreement was too late for the EEA Committee to adopt an inclusion in the meeting held on 23 September. The relevant EEA Committee decisions were taken by written procedure on 30 September. The EEA Committee decisions of 30 September included 31 acts in the field of financial markets in the EEA Agreement. The incorporation of the legal acts establishing EU financial supervision is in line with Storting’s consent to the inclusion of financial market legislation in the EEA Agreement of 13 June 2016. I refer you to the presentation of this in the European Commission on 20 September. On 13 June the Stortinge also adopted legal provisions transposing those EEA acts into Norwegian law. As announced in the proposal for this legislative decision, on 30 September the Government proposed some structural and material adaptations to the implementing legislation. The purpose of the proposals in this last legislative proposal is to make the Norwegian implementing legislation more transparent and accessible. The legal provisions implementing the EEA Committee’s decisions on the Regulations and the Regulations of the CRAs were put into force for the first week of October. The aim is to bring into force the Short Sale Code on 1 January and the EMIR Code during the second quarter of 2017. Once the legal acts establishing EU financial supervision are now incorporated into the EEA Agreement, it is appropriate to include in the financial market a large number of EEA-relevant EU acts which provided for a solution to the supervisory board case. The effect of acts in the field of financial markets not incorporated into the EEA Agreement is now higher than 200 acts. A reduction in this slowdown will contribute to a greater level of legal homogeneity in the financial market in the EEA territory, in line with the objective of the EEA Agreement. Pending the inclusion of EU legislation in the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian authorities have stressed the importance of developing Norwegian legislation, including: capital requirements for banking and insurance, in accordance with developments in international legislation. Among the 200 or so acts, there are a number of major, important parliamentary and Council Directives and Parliament and Council Regulations, as well as a large number of delegated acts. The EEA/EFTA countries have established a list of priorities for the preparation of draft EEA Committee decisions for most of these acts. Important acts to prioritise include: the rules of operation and the rules on capital requirements for banks, the rules on bank crisis management and bank deposit guarantee and the rules on capital requirements for insurance companies. There are therefore in the future many comprehensive legislative proposals in the field of financial markets related to the implementation of new EEA obligations. Many have feared the consequences of brexit. However, although Brexit will mean major changes both for the United Kingdom and for the EU, there is little evidence that European cooperation will be paralysed. Following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the EU is still composed of 27 countries. These 27 countries will now have to combine a new partnership for the future. They must ensure that the EU is experienced as the peace project it is. They must ensure that the European Union delivers the well-being, security and solutions that citizens want. The withdrawal of the British also has the greatest impact on Norwegian interests. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU and the United Kingdom clarify their relations in a way that promotes cooperation and cohesion, does not build up new economic barriers to trade, and that mitigates the trends in polarisation and populism in Europe. It is in our interest that our main markets in Europe are stable and strong. We need a well-functioning Europe capable of addressing new security challenges. We are served with a controlled and solidarity approach to refugees and migrants in Europe. We depend on the rest of Europe to join in and pull the load on the green transition we're facing. We do not need less cooperation in Europe. We need a more interconnected and stronger Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e346	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised to this proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e365	Now it's 25 years since Jostein Garder's "Sofie's World" was a great international success translated into a whole bunch of other languages. It paved the way for new Norwegian literature on the international market. At the same time, we see that many of the values of the West – such as openness, like democracy, like many of the values on which we have built Europe – are being put under pressure. Yes, we see that they are under pressure also in the presidential election that is going on right now. The book fair in Frankfurt is the world's largest book fair. It offers an enormous opportunity for Norway, an enormous opportunity to raise art, culture and the values we stand together and market them in a large European perspective. We all know that when we go into a bookstore in some of our holiday countries and find a book by a Norwegian author, we become terribly proud. And many Norwegian authors have found their way abroad in recent years. I believe that translating literature into other languages is also cultural communication – through the dissemination and understanding of others, understanding of other cultures, understanding of other sets of values. I'll get back to it. When we meet other cultures, it gives us many opportunities to use those meeting places to develop both Norwegian culture and to bring Norwegian culture into the European family. What is behind Frankfurt 2019 is a great cultural virtue in Norway, where we see for the first time that all the organizations in the literature field cooperate and contribute to such a large project. And then the state has gone in and split. The reason for this is that Norwegian literature policy has been a success. NORLA supports 450 different publications in 50 languages of Norwegian books around the world, with only 5 to 6 million. kr i support. We have a book agreement that has made Norway a huge reader, and that it is possible to live by being a writer in Norway. Given that we're a very, very little language, it's quite amazing that we've managed to have a literature policy and made so many brave choices in this room over time, which allows people to live on literature, and that we're a reading people. Another important part of this is the purchasing system, which is really one of the success criteria for the possibility of being the literature nation of Norway. In addition, the travel assistance schemes provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be added. Here we might be a little bit in disagreement with the government, but we're willing to get them to the rescue. In the 2017 budget, the Council of State has taken many important steps towards Innovation Norway – and in cooperation with the Council of Culture – in order to have the opportunity to create more within the Norwegian cultural field. We believe that the rightholders should also be included in that programme, and we have included it in our alternative budget. We've also added more money to the Norwegian Cultural Fund, ear-marked literature, and we've added 10 million. kr more for increased artist support, 3 mill. kr more to Norwegian Center of Authors and 14 mill. kr more on the cultural budget of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I guess I don't really think the Council of State is against this, but we're willing to fight to get it into the budget as well. Why is this related to Frankfurt 2019? Well, Frankfurt 2019 isn't just about literature, it's about all the other arts as well. What we've seen now is, for example, Norwegian Artist Fusion, Norwegian Crafts, Norwegian Film Industrie and Dance and Theatre Centre are now throwing themselves in and looking at the opportunity that lies in Frankfurt 2019. Here we have a unique opportunity not only to present Norwegian literature, but Norwegian art and culture in a broad range – both contemporary art and culture, as well as opportunities that we saw during this year's Frankfurt fair, where the Munch Museum attended to see what opportunities they have to market the great historical artists in such a bet. This year, Innovation Norway was also part of – which I assume is related to the state council’s initiative – to see how we can get the most out of our participation in Frankfurt. This year the Netherlands was the main cooperation country, and they had the slogan ‘This is what we share’. And then I'm back where I started, because encounters between cultures and encounters between different artistic expressions are what's involved and developing our culture. I remember that for approx. Ten years ago, the Foreign Minister had an interview about the cultural exchange we have in the Nordic region with Arab countries, where I showed that there was hardly any literature translated between Arab countries and Norway. The only thing was scientific literature, but there was almost no Arabic fiction. No one read about what it was like to live in the back streets of Cairo, if only you had Norwegian shelf meters in front of you. This has changed in the last ten years, but I see an incentive to some of the cultural conflicts we find, and the lack of understanding of each other's culture and the value system, precisely because we're not good at making the arenas where cultures meet, that we're not good at reading each other's literature, and that we're not good at showing the understanding that's important in the meeting between cultures. I've just been reading Jan Guillou's books that describe the beginning of the 1900s in Europe. Looking back in the history books, we see a Nazism growing up in Germany, which in a way becomes isolated into one system of ideas and one country, but what we saw in Europe was a united Europe that broke with its values before this happened – a Europe that asked questions about the values on which democracy and its open and liberal state of law were thought to have been built. So we see this again, right now, in Europe, in the Western world, that many of those values, that understanding of the lives of others – where literature is involved and contributes – is weakened. That's why I think the Dutch slogan, 'This is what we share', was a very good slogan. I think we should go into the fight and use Frankfurt to show Norwegian culture, to show the values we stand for, to show the artists we have, to show us both the historical art and the contemporary artists we have today. Not only Norwegian literature, but Norwegian theatre, Norwegian dance and other artistic expressions may be used on this occasion. I think such occasions are incredibly important. They give us the opportunity to show what we stand for and who we can contribute to, but it also contributes to a cultural dialogue that I believe is important for Europe to hold up. At a time when we feel that many of the traditional liberal values we've built are being pressed, such meeting places are even more important. Now it may be that this interpellation was somewhat influenced by the fact that we have an American election today, which I think may characterize all of us, but I think it is precisely the initiatives that lie in Frankfurt 2019, which provide the opportunity to raise the important cultural arenas in the future, and which allow us to show that in Norway we can contribute something internationally, and show how a good cultural policy and commitment to culture can help to defuse any of the things we encounter in today's Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e390	I want to start by thanking the representative Trine Skei Grande, not primarily for putting this interpellation on the agenda, but for being an outstanding driver because we actually became the main country in Frankfurt. I would like to pay tribute to the representative for that. Then, of course, I think it's also very nice that the Storting is debating and raising this matter, and I can put myself 100 pst. behind the entry of the representative. It was a very good post. Now we have the opportunity to discuss how to use one of the largest initiatives on Norwegian culture abroad in recent times – because there is nothing else that means that Norway is going to be the main country at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2019. I fully agree with the representative of Skei Grande; this effort will contribute to raising Norwegian literature and all Norwegian culture. It shall not only apply for a few years, but there shall be a possibility of a long-term lift for the export of a diversity of Norwegian culture. I am concerned about what Norway as an ambitious cultural nation can get out of this initiative, and what Norway can contribute to the world. I visited the Book Fair just a few weeks ago. Then I was very impressed. I was impressed by the extent, the extent, the diversity, but not least the Norwegian visibility, not only among those who put and negotiated the rights of books, but the Norwegian state was impressive. The Frankfurt Book Fair is the main international venue for agreements for the sale of rights to discretionary literature and case law to the whole world. I got a clear idea of what it means for Norwegian literature to get out of the world on this arena, where exhibitors from over a hundred countries meet, and where more than 250,000 visitors visit the fair every year. It was also exciting to get the impression of the book fair as an important cultural institution in Europe. The Book Fair places the spotlight on Europe as a project where freedom of expression, democracy, art and culture should be a central theme. It is and has always been of great importance for Norwegian artists to be able to work internationally. Internationalisation contributes to the impulses and exposure of Norwegian art and artists. The possibility of increased demand for the work of Norwegian artists and the earnings of individual artists may give rise to more jobs. International exposure also contributes to a positive reputation for Norway. An example of this just occurred to me two weeks ago when I visited New York and the recognized publisher FSG. I have to say I was proud as Minister of Culture when I heard how the publisher works with our great writers, and how immensely popular some of them are in New York, for example. the amazing reception Karl Ove Knausgård has received in New York, and I was asked many times when I told them that I was the Norwegian Minister of Culture. Then there were more – not just in the literature industry, but in the cultural life in New York – who had a very need to talk about Norwegian Knausgård. Not least the publisher could also tell that they would now raise themselves over the new book to Åsne Seierstad and begin the translation of it. I am also very pleased with how the Norwegian authorities in the United States are working on literature, it is one of their main priorities, and they should also be a strong contributor by raising the attention of Norwegian literature towards Frankfurt 2019. Through the Nordic Council of Ministers, we also promote Norwegian literature, language and the Nordic cultural community. There is great interest in Nordic literature in Europe and in the rest of the world, and next year Nordic art and culture will be central to the Nordic Matters common culture model in London. It shall be at the largest cultural centre in London, the Southbank Centre, and shall last throughout the year. Since Norway is also going to be a host country for the Nordic Council of Ministers next year, we have raised literature as one of our main priorities. It gives us a momentum we have to exploit. In order to succeed in Frankfurt, the road goes through a number of initiatives and events, as I have now mentioned. Norway, as the main country at the book fair, has a unique chance of continuing and raising the international penetration of Norwegian literature abroad. In addition to literature, books, Norwegian music, dance, theatre and visual art will be shown at cultural institutions throughout Germany throughout the year. Germany is also a very important export market for all cultural industries. At this year's fair, several Norwegian cultural actors represented cultural expressions other than literature. They were there to look at opportunities for cooperation and the potential of our Frankfurt operation. It is gratifying that there is so much commitment and so much enthusiasm – across singers – for this project. For the time being, the project ‘Norway as the main country at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2019’ is only opportunities and potential, and there are really many opportunities ahead of us. Now the position as project manager is bright and will be filled in a short time. So in the next year, the project starts to take shape, the project phase runs until 2022, and we're going to harvest the investment for a long time after the implementation itself. The initiative requires extensive cooperation between different cultural actors in Norway and internationally, including between public and private actors, on the part of the representative Skei Grande. In order to succeed with the broad cultural pattern internationally, new cooperation models need to be developed in such a way that new results will also be achieved. The three-year preparatory phase facilitates the development of this long-term and secure duration beyond 2019. Here it is only up to the partners to take advantage of the opportunities. Norwegian book industry and other cultural industries should also have a long-term perspective, as an incentive to develop and invest in good national sales appliances. In the 2017 state budget, the government has proposed to give a major mission to Innovation Norway, which was also the subject of the inter-pellant, to focus on cultural industries. It will strengthen our ability to further develop innovative and high-growth enterprises. The demand for art and culture has never been greater. Norway has talents and art production at a high international level, and there is a high potential for creating new jobs. The initiative on Innovation Norway will contribute to increased investment in Norwegian art productions, talents and rights. Innovation Norway and the Culture Council – together with NORLA and the other cultural export organisations, OCA, Music Norway, Norwegian Crafts, Dance and Theatre Centres, Norwegian Film Institute and DOGA – can strengthen existing instruments and develop new ones. This large-scale investment in cultural industries will intensify the potential for long-term performance of the Frankfurt initiative by focusing on the industrial and industrial aspects of the main country project. Cooperation between export organisations, practitioners, the U.D. and foreign stations is a prerequisite for effective action that works. Foreign stations do important work as contact points and facilitators internationally. The main objective is to strengthen demand for Norwegian art and Norwegian art expressions over time. It works here with all aspects of the cultural and creative industry, so that the support apparatus for artists can expand their networks internationally and be better equipped to bring Norwegian art into the international world. I look forward to working further with the collaboration and have expectations of the results of the Frankfurt operation. Together with the other cultural policy instruments we have in Norway, we will help Norwegian artists also use this to produce a variety of expressions in the future, to show Norway the diversity and fantastic, high quality we have in Norwegian art and culture production, but also that Frankfurt can be an important spokesperson for Norway when it comes to delivering an important message and conveying Norwegian values in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e424	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, and I also thank the Council of State for taking the time to travel this year. I think that was important to have an understanding of the event. I should also have liked to experience it once – I have not done so, but I hope to experience it once. I fully agree with the Council of State that there is a great commitment in Culture-Norway around using this occasion. And in the hearing in the Foreign Affairs Committee – which was not exactly a cultural hearing, but where there were also some cultural organisations – many positive feedback came to my question about how to think about Frankfurt and export Norwegian culture and increase cultural cooperation. Now it doesn't seem like the list of speakers shows that the Storting has the same commitment and the same enthusiasm for the project you find in Culture-Norway, but I'm going to let it go. I really have two questions for the Council of State. I said that I really liked the Dutch slogan, so I wonder if the Council has any thoughts about what slogans Norway should have? In that case, what is important for the Council of State to lie behind such a slogan? The second thing, which I think would have been very exciting if we had been able to do, is a proper evaluation of the Norwegian participation in Frankfurt 2019, that some people can actually look at what it leads to from growth, problems or opportunities in Norwegian cultural life. Here we have a unique chance, a great international event, which offers many opportunities for Norwegian artists and for Norwegian culture, and it would be very exciting if someone could actually follow and evaluate that project along the way, to see what it leads to, and what opportunities it gives Norway. It would have given us politicians unique knowledge of how we should work to promote Norwegian culture, Norwegian artists and Norwegian literature abroad in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e435	The possibility that lies ahead of us, we can also view as a two-part possibility. One is how we can market our art and culture, get it out into the world, spread it internationally and attract attention around Norwegian culture. The second thing, which is equally important, and which the interpellant also places a lot of emphasis on in his post, is just how Frankfurt can become an important venue. We saw that for the Netherlands. They were very clear in their message and used the first day to convey a clear message of value, which aroused great reactions throughout Europe, and which created debate. That's what I think we also have to decide. What Norwegian values, what message are we going to convey when we have such a central pulpit that this gives us? I know that the representative Skei Grande agrees with me that there is a limit to what politicians are going to interfere with. I think now we're going to give the opportunity to NORLA and to the industry itself, which is very eager, to participate in and shape what is going to be the main project. And then I think that as governments, both big business and government, we should support under and be with them and give them the help they need – because there are almost no limits to what opportunities we have to communicate a message – but that we should spend some time on what should be the slogan, what should be our message, because it becomes important. The evaluation game is very interesting. I know that when Iceland and Finland were the main country for a few years back, they got a lot out of their bet. They worked very well in advance to be specific about what should be their message, what should be their bet. As far as I remember to have been told, Iceland received a dramatic increase in the number of translations after they were the last major country. So there are fighting possibilities, and this should definitely be evaluated along the way. I also hope that the representative Skei Grande agrees with me that we must also try to bring private sponsorship. We need to get business to see the values of investing in art and culture, however important it is to do it internationally, and that together we can try to get business to go in with funds and now really use the opportunity to put Norwegian art and culture on the agenda – and not least for a fantastic marketing of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e446	In Stortingen's Rules of Procedure, is this article intended as an article in which the interpellant can summarize what the others said?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e451	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e456	It wasn't big, and I have to admit that I'm a little sorry for that. But I am very pleased with the Council of State's response, and I also did not think that the Council of State should have a clear slogan. However, I think we should think about what values – and what – we should stand for. This is said to be a major business opportunity for Norwegian authors and Norwegian artists, but it is also an opportunity for Norwegian culture – whatever it is, it is something we are discussing all the time – to show up in an important arena in Europe, and this is also an opportunity to provide some value in the current debates in Europe. I believe that Norway has dealt with some challenges in a better way than in many other countries. What values is what our society is based on that we actually think is so much worth that we're willing to tell others about it, for example. tolerance and sharing? For art is basically an expression. Art policy is also about freedom of expression policy, and it is the opinions I would like us to stand for together. These are the expressions that I want us to stand for, so that we can show them to Europe, like the wide breadth of it and the conflicts in it. But I think that we need to basically find a slogan and a red thread in the Norwegian participation that we can use to tell what Norway is in an international perspective – into the discussions that are going on in Europe now. We must not only show that we have great authors, and that we have Munch; we must also show that we stand for something today, and I am concerned about joining the process of a slogan and a profile of Norwegian participation. So, of course, I hope that all the artists are involved in creating it, but as politicians, we also have a task: to define the framework within which we're going to make this, so that we get all the expressions on the table. So this is really about freedom of expression, this is about art, culture and values. That's what I thought was important, that this isn't just a business opportunity for Norwegian authors. There's something a lot more than that, and we can use it for a lot more than that. I also hope that the Council of State will take along a wish for an evaluation, because I think it would have been useful for us as politicians when 2019 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e467	It's not that much more for me, either, to comment on the debate. I think the interpellant has had a lot of good posts, and I totally agree with her. She's come up with some challenges that I'm going to take with me. I had actually written as a speech point in my closing post that I can see that on Stortinget too there is a great commitment to the project «Norway as the main country at the book fair in Frankfurt 2019». That's not quite right, then, but I'm very happy that the Left is so concerned about it! That's why I hope that the left continues to hold the pressure on this, and that we can continue to work together. I also want to take the initiative to invite us together to a good process in advance, not only for what the slogan should be, but for what values we are going to communicate in the time that Norway now stands in – in a transformation, but also in a great change in many ways: what are we thinking our important message to the rest of Europe and to the rest of the world? I hope that we can still have a process around. I think this is a great opportunity for us to go out with an important message, but then it's also important that we lay a good foundation here at home for how we're going to get to what's going to be our main message. Because this is an opportunity to convey values, and I fully agree with the interpellant that art is about opinions, and that gives us completely different opportunities than many other international speakers give us. So it's also very important to think that this isn't just going to be a literary exercise. It's going to be a bet for the whole field of art and culture, and we're going to get the world's eyes focused on all the amazing things we create in this field. Although we are a people and a country that is very happy in books and very happy in literature, I hope that it will also be an inspiration for parents to continue to read much more to their children, that young people who grow up will become even more interested in literature, and that this will be an inspiration for all of us – not least that this will drip on the young talented authors, and also that the sprouts that are now growing up will be turned into full bloom in connection with this effort of ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e478	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e495	Good maternity care, a safe birth supply and close follow-up in maternity are crucial to ensure good health for mother and child. Pregnancy and maternity care in Norway is of high quality in international contexts, and in general it is very safe to be born in Norway, not least because we have many skilled professionals out there. However, there is much evidence that this part of healthcare can be improved in important areas. In St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A joyful event – On a coherent maternity, maternity and maternity care, the following five areas of intervention were prioritised: a holistic maternity care, a safe food supply, a family-friendly maternity provision, quality at all stages and a broad user perspective. The size was in line with the proposal in the message that the three-level division of the food establishments — women’s clinic, maternity ward and birth control — should be maintained, while at the same time the volume requirements were lifted and replaced by national quality requirements. In April 2010, the Health Directorate presented the report A safe food supply – proposals for quality requirements for food institutions. Quality requirements were compiled after ordering from a collected stack. Quality requirements for food institutions include requirements for both organisation, tasks and functional distribution, competence requirements, compliance monitoring system and information and communication requirements. In the quality requirements, it was established that the staff of the women's clinics must be sufficient to maintain a defensive monitoring and treatment. Women’s clinics should also comply with the professional recommendation that all birthing women have a midwife in their home during the active phase of birth. The Health Directorate report concluded that there is good evidence that birth should be followed up by a person present at the time of birth at the active stage of birth, and that this would have a number of positive effects for women both with and without risk. For reasons of professional quality, it was recommended from the Directorate of Health that all births should have a midwife with them as early as possible in the active phase of birth and until birth is over. Both sick and healthy women shall be given priority in order to receive the assistance and support they need. Health professionals are responsible for creating a system so that the quality requirements of food institutions are followed up when it comes to both organisation and performance. Quality requirements are established: specific reporting procedures should also be developed before birth help. Today, the vast majority of women are born in the largest food clinics or food departments around the largest cities. Under 10 pst. births in Norway occur in small births, with less than 500 births per year. Therefore, I believe it is decisive that the quality requirements for the women's clinics are now being implemented and followed up. I also think it is wise to strengthen maternity wards in the vicinity of the press areas and not lay down local hospitals, so that maternity wards here can help relieve the burden on women's clinics at normal births. The reason for this interpellation is the number of feedbacks about the supply of food, which do not only give rise to individual events. Feedback from patients and professionals suggests that the quality requirements for maternity care from 2010 have not yet been implemented. In an article in the Evening Post on July 15, 2015, midwives warned against what they thought was detonated capacity at all the maternity wards in Stor-Oslo, including Akershus University Hospital and Bærum Hospital. They were concerned about the quality of supply. The birthing told them that they had to argue about a feeding ground. In a letter to the management of the Oslo University Hospital, a place-trusted midwife expressed the interdisciplinary concern when sheltered patient treatment and safety due to the manning situation. The midwife’s survey of her members, mentioned in the Evening Post of July 17 of the same year, showed that half of the midwives felt that they were not being given adequate supervision of the pregnant woman during birth. One in four midwives says in the study that they have to reject women who are in the active phase of their birth from the department. One of the four midwives says that they feel that there are rarely enough midwives at work to follow up the midwives individually. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 September 2015, midwives at the Women's Clinic stood up and warned about the crew at the Women's Clinic, which they did not think was a midwife's defense. They thought that tight budgeting and shutting down birth dusts on weekends made it more risky for women who came in to give birth. In the spring, there were several reports of midwives grunting for the summer. Summer is a high season for childbirth, also because of our nursery system. At the same time, it is holiday settlement. In the evening post of August 3rd this year, there were again articles that warned against understaffing at the women’s clinics, and it was reported that there were actually women who were born alone on birth control in Norway – completely alone without any health professionals present. Of course, these are individual events, but that it can happen at all, I think it's serious. The pressure on women’s clinics and the large maternity wards also challenges the quality of maternity care. There is now a decrease in the number of children who are breast-feeding. The development of shorter hospital laytime combined with the lack of maternity follow-up in municipalities can contribute negatively to such a development. There was also a search report on whether there was anything wrong with the allocation of funds and the coding system before health care. When the Haukeland Women's Clinic has had fewer complications and fewer complicated births, they get less money and a more challenging budgetary situation. Food departments that prioritize midwifery skills to avoid complications that can be prevented lose money. Following a pregnant woman in the toilet won't pay off in such a system. But inserting a catheter will get an extra money for it. In my view, this shows the extreme consequences of the fact that the funding of the food supply is 50 pst. effort-driven — a person gets money after a medical activity. The food population is changing. Age in first - time births is evenly rising, and several births have life - style diseases such as diabetes, obesity, and so forth. The number of women who become pregnant through assisted conception – which will often require special monitoring at birth – has increased. Several of the birthing people get epidural anesthetic or reproductive drug, and there are several births that are artificially initiated. These developments require that more midwifery skills are present, no less, and good basic personnel must be present at any time. I feel that there is a great deal of distance between hospital management and health care professionals in this case, and what they say about when it comes to staffing at the large food clinics. midwives tell me that they're so busy at work that they often don't want to eat. They say that women have to give birth alone, and they ask that the maternity ward be manned as an emergency ward. The hospital guide thinks that it never has such a good crew, and that all the women get a one-to-one follow-up. I don't believe that. I believe midwives when they tell me about reality. I think that now we have to intervene from the Storting side. One can no longer shift responsibility to healthcare professionals. When it is apparent that quality requirements are broken at Norwegian food clinics, it is a political responsibility to correct them. My question in the interpellation is whether the Council of State will take new action, which ensures that no woman in Norwegian hospitals is at risk of being born on her own without a health professional present. And will the Council of State ensure a escalation of the midwife's crew at our women's clinics?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e531	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. The birth of a new child is one of the greatest events in a person's life, and it is understandable that people are concerned with the quality of maternity, maternity and maternity care. When we discuss how maternity, maternity and maternity care can improve, we must not forget that we live in a country where the results of this care are among the best in the world. We have low newborn and maternal mortality and fewer cesarean cuts than many other Western countries. These are results that we can be proud of. I have registered that the midwife's organisation is concerned about the working situation of the midwives and that during periods they cannot follow up their mother and children as they would like. It is important that we take these signals seriously. I have therefore had dialogue with the health regions and the Health Directorate in order to get an overview of the situation in the food establishments and whether the offer given to the birthers is sound. The Health Directorate has also had meetings with the Federation of Midwives on this matter. The national quality requirements of the guide ‘A safe food supply’ are well known in healthcare companies and considerable efforts have been made to implement them. The Health Directorate has recently identified the extent to which quality requirements have been met. The survey was conducted as a survey of the medical professionals responsible at food establishments. The results have not yet been published, but preliminary results show that quality requirements have led to improvements in many areas. For example, the requirements have helped to change the practice of how fast a doctor should be in place at complicated birth stages. Many food establishments report that cooperation between doctors and midwives has improved. Quality requirements have also led to improvements in education and training. The recommendation that all birthers should have a midwife in their home as early as possible in the active phase of birth and until birth is over is not registered in the patient administration systems as of today. That's why we don't have a sure overview of how far the goal is reached. In the Health Directorate's survey, food establishments indicate that over 90 pst. of the giving birth are offered to a midwife present. Health regions have reported that they are actively working towards all – 100 pst. – shall have midwife with her as early as possible, but the large seasonal and day-to-day variations in birth rates make it difficult to achieve this objective. The Interpellant refers to a membership study carried out by the Federation of midwives in March 2016. Almost 40 pst. of those who responded, stating that they had often been responsible for more than one woman in active birth at the same time. So from the point of view of the midwives, it may seem that the situation is not satisfactory today. We know that having a midwife during birth gives more probability of normal birth and less need for pain relief. I am therefore concerned that healthcare companies continue to work towards the goal of a midwife being present. I now want to ask healthcare companies to establish a practice in which the aberration system is actively used as a basis for the improvement work in this area. Some food establishments report such deviations today, but many do not. Through the next year's mission document to the health regions, I want to make sure that all food establishments get this in place. The midwife organizations claim that women have been born alone without health professionals, because midwife was responsible for multiple births at the same time. This is a serious claim, and to the extent that this has occurred, of course, it is totally unacceptable. I have examined whether such events have been notified to the notification system in the Directorate for Health. For the period from 1 July 2012 to 1. In July 2016 – a four-year period – the notification scheme received a total of 39,281 events, of which 2,958 were related to birth. Among these were 198 messages describing that co-conflict contributed to poor follow-up. In one incident, it was described that the woman was born alone. I have also asked health companies to report back whether they know or have registered that women have been born alone in the last few years. One such case is known and documented in the aberration system of the health establishments concerned. This case was not notified to the notification scheme in the Directorate for Health. The reason for the event is indicated to be a combination of a technical failure of an alarm clock and at the same time Caesarean section at the department. I assume that this type of incident, which could lead to significant personal injury, will also be reported to the reporting system in the Health Directorate under the specialist health service law § 3-3. Fortunately, no complications were reported in the mother or children after this event, but such events have to be avoided, and I assume that there are systems in the maternity wards that prevent this from happening again. I understand that midwives can have a demanding work situation, which can be experienced as stressful during periods. Good manning planning in food establishments is therefore necessary. It is the responsibility of health establishments to provide adequate staffing, but the large fluctuations in the number of births make manning planning demanding. Good dialogue between midwives and the management of food institutions is therefore important in order to adapt the manning process to meet the needs of both birth and staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e559	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, because I thought it was very good, and that's not how often I say it. My frustration in this matter is that when I ask the health care provider for the quality requirements to be incorporated, especially the one-to-one requirement, they answer yes. When I ask them if they know if it is registered, they say no, but the midwives are so good and report deviations. When I ask the midwives if they report deviations, they answer no. Therefore, I have thought that we cannot know enough about this, while the quality requirements of the Health Directorate were a very important requirement that was put in place. Then I think it's serious that we don't know enough about it – that healthcare professionals don't know for sure if this is actually being implemented out there. Then I also thought it might be difficult to dimension the crew based on that, when one does not know about the current situation leads to it. So I think it's very good that the Council of State takes on seriously the signals that are coming, and will include this in the mission paper for next year, so that everyone gets a system of deviations that works just in this area. I think that can lead to improvements. I agree that the quality requirements have led to improvements, but I believe they may have led primarily to improvements in the smaller food departments – even in the larger ones, of course, but at least they have led to better selection and better quality and, I believe, to better maternity care. When it comes to those who give birth entirely alone -- I don't expect them to be so greedy -- I'm more upset that it can actually happen, because when it's one who gives birth completely alone, there's a lot of people who give birth without getting the one-to-one follow-up that's fixed in the quality requirements. And it's like the Council of State says, that a one-to-one follow-up has a lot of good professional arguments for having – a user less pain-relieving, and a better birth experience. There are many healthy mothers who have healthy children, but who have a bad birth experience in Norway. Statistics do not show this. But in any case, thank you very much for the answer – I look forward to seeing how it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e573	Thank you for a pleasant reception of the answer. This is important. It's important that we have a good overview of what the situation is. It is also important that midwives use the notification system that is and report findings that are actually covered by the legislation and that are to be notified. The type of serious incidents shall be reported. It's also a prerequisite for us to be able to follow up on risks and make improvements. So in this case, I have also experienced the same thing as the representative describes, namely that there has been a gap between the Peasant League – and the midwife tells about the situation in the hospital – and the feedback I get from the leaders and from the health regions. It's a challenge for us, and it also goes into the slightly larger work we're working on now, establishing a very clear understanding of the leadership responsibility it is in our hospitals, at all levels, to create openness and trust in the situation in the hospitals. It's now working systematically. I met with all the hospital managers on Friday, as we went through the issue very clearly in relation to the types of instruments that one should use from the manager's side to now work systematically on that issue as well. We see from the patient safety study that 44 pst. of our hospital departments have a culture of transparency and security, of talking about patient safety and quality, which is too poor compared to what should have been the situation. It's a leadership responsibility to work with. So I believe, just like the representative Toppe, that when all the departments get good systems to record deviations, we'll have a better basis to come up with measures where there's a need for it, and get a better overview of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e583	It's also true that if we base the Earthmother's membership study, there's a lot of evidence that the challenges in this area are greater in the major food departments, i.e. the women's clinics, than in the smaller food departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e586	I would like to thank Kjersti Toppe for promoting the interpellation, but also for being concerned with female health and maternity care. It's an engagement that we share, and we also rejoice together that Norwegian maternity care is world-class good. Strengthening the midwife service is one of our government's many important initiatives, and we in the Right here at Stortinget are pleased that the government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment in hospitals than the previous government did. A stronger hospital economy means a better framework, including for the maternity wards. I've been discussing with midwives, and I've asked, even in consultation with the committee, whether it's the professional, clinical thing that decides what to do in the maternity ward, or whether it's economics. The answers I get every time are at least that one takes the professional, clinical decisions about what to do, and not what it is that pays for birth – a little to the discussion about input-driven financing, as Kjersti Toppe often mentions. We share the concerns of both Kjersti Toppes and the midwife organisations that there is no midwife in the womb. I think it is very positive to hear the Minister of Health say today that he takes seriously these concerns and feedback, and that he goes so thoroughly into the figures and in the non-conformations. As stated in the statement to the Minister of Health, it is over four years, from summer 2012 to summer 2016, only recorded that one woman was born alone, but I think there were so many 198 messages that described that midwife could not follow well enough up in the active phase of birth. We know that there are under 60 000 births this year, so over these four years we're talking about 240 000 births. But at the same time we should be concerned when, as Toppe says, midwives do not report deviations. Then it is important, as the Minister of Health does, to ask health companies to establish this practice, and it comes from next year. It's only when we can actively make improvements in that area, but also get more knowledge about what's actually happening, and how we can fix it if there's too many deviations. Birth is a joyful event. It is a great wonder, and it is a quite violent experience for the one who gives birth and for the family around. Having a safe and competent midwife around her during birth is essential, both medically and in relation to the overall mental and mental experience it is. It is, as has also been mentioned earlier in this debate, especially in the summers, that it may dampen news of low soil killing. Of course, we understand that it is demanding to operate a hospital when employees are going to wind up a summer vacation. But I am very pleased that the Minister of Health has been very clear that health care businesses have to plan the crew in the summer, so that women will not be alone in the summer in the active phase of their birth. I have come to realize that we now have a health minister who has a real commitment to maternity care. This winter, Höie called on the Health Directorate to meet the midwives' organisations to get their views on the manning of our food institutions, to get a common understanding of what the challenges are, and how we're going to meet them. I hope that the midwives' associations feel that they have a government council that is taking these challenges seriously and that is also now demanding health care companies in terms of reporting systems. As important as the safety at birth is the safety of a good part-time post-hospital return period. For many newly-baked families, there is a vulnerable and demanding time. Then we need more midwives in larger positions outside the municipalities. This is how our government has increased the allocation of health station services by 850 million. until the current financial year, and we have set up a very healthy and robust local economy. The municipalities got their best results since 2006 last year. This provides a good framework for local politicians to give priority to better soil-killing and enhanced health-station services in the municipalities in the future. We believe that all the municipalities of the country must have a midwife service, that is, a midwife. So far, both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have opposed the legalisation of a midwife as a mandatory health professionals group in the municipalities. I hope the parties change their position on this when we're going to adopt the law changes in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e607	Let me make one point: pregnancy is not a disease. There has been a child born at all times. Yes, over 2,000 years ago, children were even born in a stable. It also went well, even without health professionals. Not everyone has to go to a hospital to give birth. It's also that not all go to hospitals to give birth. At the same time, it is important that both firstborn and those who know that there may be complications around birth are safe and cared for both professional and human. We know that there are many births in the summer, at the same time it is holiday settlement. This can be a challenge. How can the Storting help solve it? It's hard to decide when to feed – they come when they come, these kids. We cannot decide that Troms, Telemark and Hordaland will only have childbirth in January, May and September. Health companies are constantly working with full-time culture and with alternative rotational schemes. At the same time, there is a need to look at the division of labour across departments, but also across professional competences. A birth can last a long time, for example: For 24 hours. midwives and midwives across the country do an amazing job, but they also get help from nurses and help nurses to provide care, comfort, pain relief, a hand to hold in, a clapping on their cheeks, and encouraging words in a vulnerable situation. The size can contribute to providing adequate study places, economics, flexible working time regulations, strengthening the employer's right to governance, objectives and governance documents. It's at the level we're now in control of. What is sufficient norm? The size cannot control at the level of detail and almost adopt the rotational arrangements at the hospitals or food clinics, but it is very important that the quality requirements are now followed up. We have a health company system today. These health establishments need flexibility to scale the supply as needed, including seasonal variations. If the Storting believes that this governance model with health enterprises is not appropriate or that it has been mistrusted whether they follow the objectives adopted by this process, it is appropriate to take that debate and make a different solution. The main objective must be for all those who need a hospital offer to feel safe and receive a good and quality assurance offer, even after a hospital stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e622	Putting a child into the world is one of the greatest things that a person can experience, and Norway has several times been named one of the best countries to have a child in. A good start to family life is important for both mother and child. It is a political responsibility to ensure that the food supply in our country is safe and equivalent, regardless of where the pregnant person lives, and when in the year she will be born. Therefore, we must take seriously the signals that come from the midwives in Norwegian hospitals. The midwife service alerts as a result of earthworm shortages and detonated capacity. The Joint Survey of the Federation of Midwives, which several have shown here, found that some women are born alone in the feeding rooms in Norway. This is alarming, results in more complications and increased insecurity among the natives. Insufficient midwives during the summer months due to holiday settlement is a particularly well-known and recurring issue. In addition, we know that a lot of people are planning to have children just in the summer because of the babysittings and the kindergarten year we have. The Norwegian Earthquake Association’s Chief Trustee at Ullevål Hospital said the following to TV 2 in the summer about the pressing situation in the maternity ward: ‘We are unable to maintain the quality of treatment and care. Women can remain alone in large parts of their birth. The situation leads to more complicated births.» The midwife association also expressed great concern about the provision of midwifery in the budget hearing of the Health and Care Committee in the autumn. The concern is about increased tasks and constant cuts at the major clinics. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good coverage of maternity wards and maternity wards that ensure that residence is safe for parents and children. The challenges we are experiencing now testify to the lack of control of the food supply in Norwegian hospitals. It is essential, as the Council of State replied, to take the challenge seriously and to oblige health professionals to comply with the professional recommendation that all birthers be secured a midwife present at the active stage of birth. This was proposed by the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in ours, and we were voted down by the other parties in the Stortinget. At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the provision of midwifery in Norwegian municipalities. That is why the Christian People's Party, in its alternative budget, is asking the government to present a stepping-up plan for the midwife offer also in the municipalities by spring 2017. Employees at health centres must have the capacity to follow up families both on the way in and after a pregnancy, when we know that hospitals print women who are pregnant faster than before. We need surveys to show that the municipalities actually don't give families the home visits and the follow-up they need. And here we might have one of the things that the interaction reform has not taken into account. Hospitals have been given the power to define the time to print out patients — the women who have given birth and their children. This means that the municipalities may not be able to build up the capacity and competence of a pregnant woman who needs to be born just the first days after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e639	That's why the Christian People's Party believes we have to work on more levels. We have to work towards the hospitals to ensure good staffing, so that the birth is actually taken care of by professional staff, but at the same time we have to ensure a good delivery time afterwards, so that neither mother nor children are exposed to something they should not be subjected to – a post-natal depression because no one sees. Who's losing it? It loses the kids, it loses the mother, and it loses the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e642	SV is very concerned that maternity care should be safe, both before, during and after birth. There have been serious warning signals now that things are developing in a negative direction, so I am pleased with the interpellation. I am also pleased with much of what the Council of State said, among other things. he acknowledges that the problem is now perhaps so great at the largest hospitals that we need to look at how to organise this, in order to ensure the best possible care for birth, so that you do not end up with a kind of birth facility, which is large, but which nevertheless does not manage to take care of the overall care. The representative of Bollestad was in his post about a lot of important things, among other things. This is whether hospitals have now been given a power to define how early they are to be printed. I think that's important that we go through. It has to be individual, because it can be very different from what kind of life situation you are in, what kind of birth experience you've had, and what kind of reaction you get after you've become a parent. If it is now the first or third time, there may be reactions that make you need to be allowed to stay at the hospital any longer. Before birth, there is a need to strengthen the community midwife services and also look at the funding mechanism, which has been a topic several times. If the doctors give this care, the municipalities get reimbursement for it, but if there is a midwife who gives it, the municipalities have to take the bill. We have to look at that, because the contact between the midwife and the prenatal mother is incredibly important. In the case of hospitals, the interpellant focused on the important points, but what is also important here is what is called ‘professionally sound’, i.e. whether you are willing to take a risk. I must remind you that there have been quite a number of signals from health companies and hospitals that this type of alert is not being taken seriously, and that it is not wanted either. There came a book a few years ago that was called «Hold your mouth or walk!» by the doctor Eli Berg, which describes how these management cultures can be expressed in that one is required to say that something is professionally sound, which is actually not. Health professionals have also chosen to stop because they are required to set aside their professional assessments and cannot report on them. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health is now saying that there should be clear procedures on this. But it's also about having a wanted culture of alerting the entire healthcare system, and especially in healthcare companies, because there are large organisations, which have very large maritime administrations and very large powers to define. They've been given a very great power of definition in health care in general. Then I miss answers from the Council of State to the interpellant's question about the funding system, because it's a paradox if you have a funding system that rewards a treatment that's not so good that it leads to fewer damage – that's, that's, that's, that's, that you can prevent damage during birth, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, you can prevent complications. So you lose money on it. If the system is like that, it's very serious, and something you have to do with, because it just doesn't make sense to have systems that don't reward good treatment that lead to fewer injuries, fewer cleaning and less traumatization. Finally, I have a comment to make to the representative of the Progress Party who was up and talking a lot about flexibility in businesses and flexibility in working time. Now very many of the midwives who are in active service today are well over 50 years old. We have to do something now to recruit young midwives forward. They need to have colleagues, so that they do not tire out, they need to have working time arrangements that enable them to reach retirement age, and they need to use their professional skills in a way that is in line with the professional requirements, and not in line with new requirements for effectiveness that go beyond patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e657	Thank you to the people who have spoken. There are many people who have made important recordings. This issue of funding has been addressed. It's important that hospitals have a good economy. I asked in the interpellation if the Council of State would contribute to the escalation of the midwife's crew at the women's clinics. I think that the women's clinics in Norway have a little – or much – too low basic staff, at least too low basic staff. That's my impression, so I think it's necessary. The legalisation of the midwife service in the municipalities, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen brought up, is a discussion in itself. I'm not going to take him here, but I want to stress that the midwife service is also not regulated by the Special Health Act – there are still midwives in hospitals. In the municipality of Bergen or in Oslo, it would have been enough with one midwife to fulfill such a law. I want a real escalation, and then we can discuss the tools for her. On the provision of childbirth: When it's busy in the maternity wards, we know that it affects the provision of childbirth. I have a question for the Council of State, because there has also been a discussion about early hospital discharges and what several of the representatives have mentioned, that the hospital has the power to define. I wasn't aware of it myself, but at a debate meeting in Bergen about this issue, it was said from the management board that when a new child and youth hospital is realized, where the female clinic is going to – today, the health clinic is responsible for five days after birth, and I understand that in a way is in an agreement – they plan that it should go down from five to two, that the municipalities should take over responsibility for everyone after two days. So it's three days that they move to the municipalities, and they don't get another penny. In view of what we did with the interaction reform, then we also moved money when we moved the responsibility for early printing etc., could the Council say anything if he knew about this, if this is something that one should look at? This also has to do with funding, because if we are to strengthen the provision of maternity, it can happen in the municipalities, but then the municipalities also have to have the means to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e671	I thank you for a good debate. I need to stress again what I said in my main post, also in order to balance some of the impressions that may have been created in the debate: Norway has very good results in this area, both for women and for children, it is important that we do not create an impression of the opposite, and that is the result of the fact that the health supply to pregnant women in Norway has been and is highly prioritised. There are other patient groups in our healthcare that are far from receiving the same result from the treatment and the health services provided. Another important clarification applies to a representation from the representative Andersen that I had said that the problem is big in the major departments: it is not right that I said so. The study of the midwife network describes that the challenges are greatest in the main departments of the women's clinics, but then we have to add that of course it is also the women's clinics that have a very high level of supply that is offered and that also offer those that have the greatest challenges. But when it comes to this particular issue of co-morbidity challenges, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there are the main challenges, but we don't have major problems in our main food departments. That's a description that I can't join. And the quality, also in this area, gets better at the indicators we have. It is also important to build a good midwife service in the municipalities, and that is one of the priorities of the government and the cooperation parties in the state budgets, by providing more money to the health centres in the municipalities. As far as the funding system is concerned, I see that there has been a debate on this in particular in Bergen. But I am very pleased with what the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen says about the feedback at the hearing in the committee, because of course it is not that one in professional judgement should base the effort-driven funding on assessing whether to provide good health care or one. If someone does, it's against both guidelines and laws and of course it's not going to happen. Then we have also introduced an element of the funding system that is about quality, namely quality-based funding, which is now a pilot scheme, but which at an overall level should contribute to greater attention to the quality indicators we have. Time use in health enterprises continues to decline. It is good and will also contribute to a better working situation for those working in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e686	Case No. So 3 is done. After it had been called to vote, said Then the president and the secretary believe that we have spoken a correct number of representatives that we should be decisive, and the Storting is therefore ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 has already been voted on and has been approved for consideration in a subsequent meeting. In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-08.ana.ud424e778	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
