ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e26	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, has taken the seat. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e34	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose a ban on the use of biofuels based on palm oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e51	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the State Councils Anders Anundsen and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e58	We do not need a leaked note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to realise that the situation in southern Europe is exceptionally difficult and potentially dramatic for people on the run and politically for all cooperation in Europe. Last year, over 1 million people came to Europe as refugees. The winter months are usually low season, but the inflow continues, much higher than at the same time last year. The drama of these days does not unfold along our borders in the north. Last year's development showed that we can be surprised, but it is not the pressure at Norwegian borders that should bother us now. Now, in every country, from the north to the south, where the pressure is rising — in Greece, in the Balkans — with the tragedy of a thousand homeless refugees, and with the dramatic deterioration of the climate between countries, it is contrary to what a cooperating Europe stands for. We need to be prepared in many areas, including politics, because there is now a lot at stake: EU cooperation, European border cooperation and a culture of cooperation built over generations. We hardly know the full value of this before we lose it – in whole or in part. It is very serious for Norway too. The drama in southern Europe shows how foreign and domestic policy is closely linked, which was also discussed yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Foreign policy management premises domestic policy. The Foreign Minister said yesterday that the critical phase was not necessarily last year, the critical phase may still be ahead of us. Norway participates in important parts of the now challenged border cooperation. We have a voice, we have a place at the table. What concrete actions and initiatives can Norway contribute to stabilising the situation that has now arisen, both in the border area, and not least in the political cooperation in Europe, of which Norway is affected, and is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e73	Thank you to the representative Gahr Støre for raising an important question about migration. Migration is probably not just going to mark the year this year, as it did last year, but Europe for decades to come. We need to work closely with the EU in terms of measures to control the influx into Europe now. Last year, there were 1 million refugees and asylum seekers, and similar figures can be expected this year if refugees and asylum seekers who come to Europe are not able to be registered and if Schengen's external borders are not better controlled. On 7 March, there shall be a meeting between the EU and Turkey where it is essential that they agree on the management of the refugee flow and the asylum seeker flow through Turkey. Turkey has said that they are willing to take an additional responsibility beyond what they are doing today. Turkey has received 2.7 million refugees and asylum seekers. No other country in the world has accepted so many. But it is possible for Turkey to establish additional refugee camps if we are involved in financing this. In addition, Greece must now take the view that they are the external border of Schengen. They have to register refugees and asylum seekers who are coming. They're gonna have to take fingerprints. They have to share that information with others through the databases. In addition, it is essential that we help stabilise the countries from which many refugees and asylum seekers come, not least the neighbouring countries around Syria, the whole of North Africa and Sahel. This is why the conference to which Norway took the initiative, the Syria and neighbouring countries Conference, was so crucial. It came in 12 billion. U.S. dollars in one day.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e86	To take a follow-up: Hardly anywhere else in the world, we find a region characterized by as much peace and deportability as we do in the Nordic region. ‘The border follows the stream’, it stands somewhere down in Eastfold, and it is an expression of a beautiful culture. But now cooperation on borders is also being challenged in the Nordic region. The migration and refugee crisis is primarily a European crisis, but it also hits the Nordic region with a sharper tone between Nordic countries than we have heard for a long time, border controls and restrictions. They're meant to deal with a flow from the south, but they also affect the circulation in the Nordic region and a used culture of cooperation. The location of Norway at the extreme of the Scandinavian peninsula means that actions in Denmark and Sweden have direct and defined implications for us. Right now, when the need for Nordic information exchange, coordination and cooperation is stronger than ever to solve problems in the Nordic region and to speak with a stronger voice in Europe, what will the Foreign Minister do to strengthen Nordic cooperation in migration and refugee policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e93	It is true, as the representative Gahr Støre points out, that the Nordic region has actually become more important in a situation where foreign policy has become much more domestic policy. The North shares many of the same values and many of the same points of view. That's why it was an important part of the foreign policy statement yesterday that we want to strengthen Nordic cooperation. I also stated that I would like to take an initiative with my Nordic colleagues that we must now work more together on migration, illegal immigration and asylum seekers, and on human smuggling and terrorism – threats that we should now face together. It is also important for Norway to contribute to a good climate between the different Nordic countries. There is no doubt that this crisis has led to a rather strong debate between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e98	It opens for follow-up questions – first Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e101	The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs was: What can Norway actually contribute? The Foreign Minister replied by pointing out what Turkey should do, what Greece should do, and what the EU should do with them. It is good and good, but what can Norway actually do about it? We are a member of Schengen. We have a share of responsibility. We not only have an interest in Schengen, we also have a joint responsibility for its functioning, but also to have control of our part of the Schengen border. We are involved in Dublin cooperation and have a joint responsibility for Dublin's nature, and in yesterday's speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway has served to change Dublin to give a distribution of refugees through the Dublin system. We know that we are struggling to reach an agreement in the European Union. But again, what is Norway’s contribution to achieving such a distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e108	Last week, Norway made it clear that we want to redeploy EEA funds, so that we now support Greece by many millions, so that they can be better prepared to meet this flow of refugees by strengthening their apparatus so that they can register refugees and asylum seekers. We're reallocated over 20 million. kr. Norway has contributed through Frontex by ship. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided support to the Rescue Company for activities that they are now carrying out in the Aegean Sea. Norway is the largest donor in relation to the population of Syria and neighbouring countries. We are also in real terms one of the most humanitarian aid providers. As regards the division of responsibilities in the question of refugees and asylum seekers, I made it clear yesterday that the government's view is that we must have a much fairer division of responsibilities in Europe. There were 1 million refugees and asylum seekers last year, and they came to very few countries. This must rise and stand in the coming weeks, otherwise I am afraid that this system may collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e117	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e120	It's an important question Worker's Party addresses. I heard the government, at the Prime Minister, yesterday say very clearly that Norway is going to contribute to a solution in Europe – not unilaterally, but the birth of Norway is that we are going to contribute, as far as the other countries of Europe are concerned. I'm very happy, because I think it's very important that we're part of a solution to get this done. The Foreign Minister says that these are migration challenges, and this is actually partly the same debate that also characterises the US election campaign now, with a slightly different backbone. But in the U.S. election campaign, there's also someone who won't contribute to a solution. And when we see the election results from tonight, my question to the Secretary of State is, what does he think about Donald Trump becoming the next president of the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e128	I thought that the challenges we face in Europe now, to which it is referred, are complicated enough in itself, but now when we're also going to bill the US primary choices, we're raising them to an even higher level of complexity. As the representative Hareide knows very well, it is not wise for a Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs to have views on different candidates and a democratic process taking place in another country. And this isn't any country – it's our closest ally. The United States is a very good friend of Norway. Then it's clear that I – like the representative Hareide and probably the others here in this room – am following the American election campaign carefully, and we're of course ready to cooperate, very well too, with the next administration in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e135	And then we're done with it! Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e140	The Labour Party representative points to the challenges he sees south of Europe. Several representatives of the European Parliament are now criticising the EU Commission’s proposals for meeting the challenges. The EU Commission has proposed to give substantial more power to a border force which, in the final analysis, could be empowered to take control of a country’s border against its will. The representative, Skå Keller, of the European Parliament, from the Die Grünen Party in Germany, stated on Monday that the proposal would give the border force a unique level of power, without necessary safeguards or public oversight. The centre party has been critical of this proposal, as sovereignty above its own border is a fundamental right for a country. It also fixed the Prime Minister's question time on 13 January. Nevertheless, we have not seen that the government has made it clear how one will deal with the proposal of the European Commission. Can the Council of State here do something about how the government wants to deal with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e149	As I said both yesterday and today, protecting its external border and Schengen's external border is the task of any country with an external border. It is incredibly crucial in the future to record both those who come and bring it into the various databases available. There is no doubt that, for example: Greece has failed to fulfil this obligation, and hundreds of thousands of people have been transported through Greece, contrary to Schengen. Of course, this has caused reactions, and this cannot continue. The European Commission has made a possible proposal, which is that if you do not deal with this, you can go in and take control of the borders. What has been the Norwegian point of view is that we believe primarily that Schengen should be suspended if this is not the case. That's our primary position, and we'll see how it works. Then we will have to discuss the other solutions in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e156	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e159	We are in a serious situation – mainly for those who are refugees, who flee from war and unrest – but it is also in Europe. There is no problem in agreeing with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that common European solutions are needed. We need better control of the external borders, and we need a burden-sharing in Europe. But at the same time, what's happening now is really the opposite. It is the sum of individual country decisions that become policy, whether it is Greece that does not follow up enough, or what happened last week, when ten countries, with Austria at the head, set their own limits on how many immigrants and refugees they want to take in. There is also a situation of tightening up in individual countries, where it is largely about moving those who come over — and choosing other countries. Then my question becomes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is his assessment of how we can get on the pan-European track, and how can Norway contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e166	A lot of things are at stake. Europe is gnawing on this issue. We have to take it seriously, so the next few weeks are going to be absolutely crucial. Responsibilities between the European countries in relation to the refugees and asylum seekers coming to Europe are an important point. We know that e.g. Germany, Sweden and Norway have taken a much greater responsibility than many other European countries. There were 31 000 refugees and asylum seekers in Norway last year. If we compare that number to the population in Norway, we're at the top. Several countries have to take responsibility. There are 600 million people in Europe. There was 1 million, and when some countries almost don't take any and make clear assumptions, we can't handle this. In addition, of course, signals must be sent that those who want to come to Europe for economic and social reasons cannot provide protection. We must give priority to protecting those who have requirements and need protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e171	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e174	Everyone agrees that those who come to Europe for economic and social reasons should be rejected. The challenge now is that the sum total of European policies makes it increasingly impossible for those people with a real need for protection to ask for protection. It is the reality of the Europe of national egoism that has taken over for the parties on cooperation. This development is reflected in the fact that this government is pursuing a policy, together with the majority of the population, not just to tighten up in line with other countries but to lead the Nordic race for narrowing down. Yesterday's presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs was simply about new initiatives that are about what Norway should do now, namely to be a driver of the increased European cooperation that we need, and the increased Nordic cooperation that we need, for example. for the allocation of refugees. My question is: When is the government going to take Norway out of the role of one of the national, selfish countries of Europe and into the role of driving common Nordic and European solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e183	First, I want to say to the representative Lysbakken that if we open up for people to come to Europe in hundreds of thousands, based on economic and social backgrounds, it will make it harder for us to give protection to those who really need protection. So it has to be addressed, also from our side. We are pursuing a strict but fair refugee and asylum policy. I referred to the number of people who came to Norway last year. Norway has initiated a fairer distribution of responsibilities in Europe. We've set up in Frontex, we're realising EEA funds, we've initiated the Global Donors' Conference for Syria and neighbouring countries, which has received great international recognition. The Prime Minister promised 10 billion. humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries, so that stabilisation can be achieved. Yesterday I also announced a change of development policy, where we will focus more on vulnerable states to prevent them from collapsing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e190	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e194	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Every day we see tragic images of people in flight trying to get across the Mediterranean, people desperately seeking a life without bombs and terror for themselves and their families. They flee from war, dictatorships, poverty and hopelessness. There are different reasons why people go on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean, but they have one thing in common, and that is that they are exploited by cynical backers — human traffickers who take advantage of the desperate situation of humans. In fact, nine out of ten refugees pay human traffickers on their way to Europe, not because they want to, but because they don't see that they have any other choice. According to the VG, Europol has stated that backers were serving 60 billion. kr on the refugee situation in 2015. Refugees are in an extra vulnerable situation and can easily be exploited by traffickers and traffickers. It is therefore essential that measures be put in place to stop backers and prevent trafficking in human beings. The government has said in its platform that they will strengthen the work against trafficking in human beings, and that is good. But it's not enough just to say it in a platform, you also have to act. We, together with the government parties, have been given good measures, including: investigation teams in all police districts. Victims of trafficking in human beings are now to be guaranteed good health, social and legal follow-up, and today's slavery is to be part of the school curriculum. Something has happened, but a lot of work remains. The action plan against trafficking in human beings expired in autumn 2014. The Christian People's Party therefore asked the Minister of Justice in autumn 2014 when a new plan would be in place. The council replied that it was right around the corner. Then we asked the same question one year later, and the answer was the same: it's right around the corner. Without prejudice to the fact that the Council of State may have a slightly different understanding of the term 'right around the corner', the Christian People's Party is beginning to become quite impatient, because if we are to cope with the greatest challenges of our time, the government must ensure the necessary action. Trafficking in human beings is gross exploitation of other people. My question to the Minister of Justice is not entirely unexpected: When will a new action plan against trafficking in human beings be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e207	Let me first thank the questioner for a very good question about a very important topic. There are very many people who are subjected to both human smuggling and, even worse, to trafficking in human beings, who in many ways are ripping one from the right to rule over one's own life, where one is put in a state that is completely terrible. It is therefore important, as the representative also points out, that a number of measures have been implemented in the fight against trafficking in human beings, among other things. We are now working, through the reform of the police force, to strengthen the police districts' ability to work on these issues. We follow up on the evaluation to which Norway was exposed in 2013, on important points. This will also be the basis for the action plan that will not be long. I agree with the representative that this corner has been a bit too far to round, quite simply. This is because we have a number of priority tasks in the ministry. This is an important matter for us, and I'm not going to say that the action plan is right around the corner, but it's under work, and we have the intention to present it as quickly as possible. What is important with the action plan is that we can then coordinate the measures and get a plan to show how a comprehensive set of measures can facilitate both the prevention of trafficking in human beings and the conduct of investigations, prosecutions and follow-up — and not least show how victims of trafficking in human beings should be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e218	I would like to thank you for your answer and hope that there is full pressure on the work on the action plan and that we will soon have it. Taking backmen and traffickers is extremely demanding. Then the possibility of telephone interception is crucial. In the autumn of 2015, the Judicial Committee examined representatives’ proposals from the Christian People’s Party for measures to combat the slavery of our time. The Christian People's Party was then able to give the police permission to conduct communication interception on suspicion of trafficking in human beings. It is a very important measure, which will help the police in their efforts to investigate trafficking in human beings. So my question is, When will the Council of State present a bill on this to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e227	As Stortinget is well known, the government is working on the follow-up to the Method Control Committee. Questions will also be raised about the areas in which they should use that form of communication control. We're in the final phase of that work. We have been aiming to present a case to Stortinget in a very short time, where the follow-up to the method control committee's setting Part II will be presented to Stortinget. There this will be one of the themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e232	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e235	Human trafficking and the first theme, migration, also have an international perspective, so my follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In a Senate hearing last week, NATO's commander-in-chief in Europe, Philip M. Breedlove, said that Russia and Syria are using the refugee crisis as a weapon. The NATO General said that Russia and Assad are using migration as a weapon to overwhelm Europe’s structures and harm European response mechanisms. So my question is, is there a description and an analysis that the Norwegian government shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e242	The Christian People's Party is dealing with what's happening in the United States and Congress during the Question Time today. But I also saw those statements from the general, and those are not words that I would have chosen. What is a paradox in Syria is that through Assad's actions and through his primary responsibility for the killing of more than 300,000 people, there are 7-8 million internally displaced in Syria, and that there are over 4 million people who have left Syria, there is probably a tendency that many of those who have stood up to Assad are also being persecuted, internally displaced, and experiencing a great pressure for migration. That's the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e249	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e252	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Justice. It is quite remarkable that the Minister of Justice answers ‘not long’ questions about when an action plan against trafficking in human beings comes. The action plan of the Stoltenberg government expired in 2014, and in the situation we are facing today, an action plan is both a security measure and an emergency response to the situation – the demanding situation – we are going to face, and we have actually been facing for some years now, as the Progress Party has had the Minister of Justice. There are both measures to protect the victims and measures to tackle those behind them that are important. We are now facing a situation where we get people who are not registered, who are not surveyed, and in that situation the Minister of Justice has chosen not to work on such an important action plan. Can the Minister of Justice at least state whether the action plan will come in this session?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e259	I want to say that an action plan is important in order to see the whole and coordinate, but at the same time I do not think the representative should live in the error that the action plan is what will resolve or help to put police, prosecution authorities and prevention activities in a position to deal with the situation – that is what is actually being implemented. A number of measures have already been implemented, completely independent of the work on the action plan, which has been intensive, which we have worked with over time, and which we continue to work with. Among other things, an action, a pilot project, has been launched at the Oslo Police District, in order to make it easier and better followed up people who are exposed to trafficking in human beings. We have worked to ensure follow-up, we have implemented measures that have strengthened the police's ability to work against trafficking in human beings, and there is no doubt that it is a priority task for the police to ensure the work against trafficking in human beings. The action plan is very important to get the overall perspective, but it is not necessary to go into the trap and believe that it is the action plan itself that solves this problem – these are the actions we are implementing, which will also be reflected in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e264	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e268	I look forward with excitement to an action plan, but my supplementary question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. With regard to human traffickers and organised crime in connection with it, it often has its origins in countries where there is war, where there is conflict, and where weak state institutions exist, in areas where it is easy to point out who you are against and need to fight down, whether it is IS or others, while finding support players is far more difficult. How is the future stable society built that also has a legitimacy, whether it is in Libya, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, where we have had a long-standing presence, or in Syria? My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: do we have a clear strategy from the Norwegian side towards these countries for how we stabilize, how we see both military and civil efforts in the context, whether it is in Afghanistan, Libya or elsewhere, and also towards Syria, with so many actors? How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view which actors we should be able to support and build up in a future Syria without conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e277	This is probably an important question. Human traffickers have taken on a lot of illegal activity in many countries, and there are more economic outcomes related to human trafficking now than it is for drug traffic in some countries where it was not just too few years ago. Designing a strategy for stabilising weak states so that they do not end up like Syria, in war and conflict – it was, after all, a middle-income country five years ago – is absolutely essential, and I drew up some of those principles in the statement yesterday. Six of the 12 focus countries with which Norway cooperates are weak countries. It itself shows a strong priority. But we have to work with boards, anti-corruption work, and not least we have to work with education – that is a prerequisite – vocational training and investment in the private sector, so that jobs are created. I could make the list even longer, but I see that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e284	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e287	The Minister of Foreign Affairs can stay standing, because my supplementary question also goes to him, and it goes on what is international now feeding the human traffickers business related to the refugee situation. It is that when many countries tighten up, there is a better business for traffickers. The Director of the UNHCR has also said to Norway related to the restrictions proposed here: With such a restrictive line, Norwegian authorities will feed the trafficking industry only. Because what do you do if you're faced with these prospects? Well, you'd better pay human traffickers to get the family over. Then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What is Norway doing internationally so that these restrictions are not to be imposed in order to increase trafficking and trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e296	We are one of the major contributors to the work of the UN High Commissioner in this area as well. In yesterday's presentation, I also announced that we should step up support for increased police cooperation and exchange of intelligence in order to bring people's smugglers to life. But there is no doubt that the window that has opened up in Europe by the arrival of 1 million refugees and asylum seekers last year has also triggered a wave of migration that we have not experienced in recent times. Many of those who come to Europe now do not come because they need protection; there are also many who come for economic and social reasons. I believe that at the moment you feel that you don't get into Europe because of economic and social reasons, it will be dampening the flow of refugees that we see today, and we can't continue year after year to receive 1 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e301	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e304	My question goes to the Dale State Council. It's approaching agricultural settlement. The size requires an increase in food production on Norwegian resources over the years to come. If we are to succeed in producing more food in Norway, we have to take care of our food soil. It's the food soil, the cultivated land, which is the basis of food production. A total increase – against the will of the government – has set a target of laying smaller food soils under concrete and asphalt in the years to come. The soil protection strategy states that redisposal should decrease to 4000 deches by 2020, a reduction of 50 pst. Each of them covers the earth's food counters. One dekar food soil equals 1,000 bread a year, and soil protection is no peasant business. The farmer's always going to be full. A large part of the food soil that is being built down is justified by a transport project. The size of the soil protection strategy has underlined that food land needs to be taken into account early in the planning of new transport projects. No account has been taken by the government of the development of their national transport plan. And that's not so subtle, because the government hasn't asked for anything either. It may seem that the government does not care about the Storting decision on an enhanced soil protection. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is whether he, as responsible for the soil protection strategy, will make sure that we know what the proposal for a new transport plan means for the food soil. And how will he, as responsible for the soil protection strategy and the food soil, ensure that the transport plan that the government is finally presenting to the Storting is in line with the soil protection objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e319	On the question, it sounds as if the government has delivered a completed NTP. That is not the case. A record has been recorded from the subjects that provide the basis for the government's assessments. And then soil protection is one of the central questions. It has been before, and it will still be. When the Storting has set a goal of not building up more than 4,000 dens per year, it's my job to make sure to follow it up. But it is also the case that the NTP’s main approach is to build more roads holistically and coherently, and correspondingly on rail and coastal transport. In the proposals that are now coming, there is room for doing so, and the detailed planning, where land disposal is most decisive, is done at the level of KVU, at the level of local authorities and at the level of regulation, not at the level of NTP. This means that the priorities we make in the daily choices of trasé are at least as important as the NTP a layer, where one thinks holistically and more coherently. The most important step taken under this government is actually to ensure that the maintenance run goes down – for the first time in several decades. The fact that we maintain the infrastructure we have, better, makes us less need to build new ones, and it gives less pressure on the food soil. It's one of the most important steps that we have to see to lead us the coming years. Only in this way can one help to ensure that the food soil is maintained, while at the same time building up the essential infrastructure, which is also important for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e328	To achieve the goals, it is important to have knowledge, and it is important to have knowledge early. There the government has now changed its practice when one has not asked the trade unions to explain what this means for soil protection. Another government council that is eager to build up food land is the municipal minister Jan Tore Sanner. He travels from conference to conference and shows power point planners who show how little one cares about objections that have been raised. In reality, there are objections that would have saved food soil. Now it's almost three months since the Stortinge adopted the soil protection strategy. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what concrete action does it take, for example? has the Council of State and the Government done since the adoption of the soil protection strategy by the Storting? What concrete grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e337	I am busy knowing the best local conditions. This makes me think it is fundamentally reasonable that the regulatory responsibility lies in the local government sector and is not directed from an office in Oslo. I have followed up, among others. the decisions taken by Stortinget, by sending letters to both the municipalities and the administration and being clear that I expect them to follow up the goal of not building up more than 4000 targets per year. But then it's important to remember that in 2014 we built up to 6,000 targets per year, while in the time of the Central Party, the average was over 7 000. So it goes at least the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e344	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e348	I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture takes responsibility for the soil protection strategy and says so clearly that it will be important for the future work – from his point of view. It is necessary if we are to produce more food on Norwegian resources, that we ensure that there is not too much agricultural land. My question is short and good: can the Minister of Agriculture guarantee that the soil protection strategy will be followed up in the work of the National Transport Plan, which is one of the most important planning documents we have, to be dealt with by the Storting, with different considerations to be balanced against each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e355	Landdisposal is not determined in NTP, but in trasé options and municipal sub-planning processes, e.g. Connecting the entire land disposal discussion to the NTP thinks I'm a siding. It's actually about making those assessments when you hit the individual trasé choices, and there's a lot of ways to do it. When an e.g. using some cultivated land when building the railway, by reducing the speed from 200 to 160 km/h, you can save agricultural land without significantly increasing the journey time – a single grip. The second is that infrastructure construction also provides the basis for people living close to the nodes an actual building. There is room for saving land in other parts of the area – to collect the brute, simply. There are many greps you need to see around here, one cannot just think about NTP. Although it is an important planning document, it is about land disposal going on in other processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e362	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e365	Traffic is traverse in all the fields where soil protection usually comes into conflict with other societal considerations, whether it's road, cycle path, runway or airport. If the food soil is to be protected piece by piece and divided, soil protection will be lost. I thought that the minister and I and the bulk of us could be a few. Sjelmo Nordås had a very good question, which I didn't think she got answers to at all. Can the Minister for Agriculture promise that the Minister for Transport will be briefed now and be clearly informed that soil protection will enter the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e372	I see no need to keep neither the Minister of Transport nor any other government councils in this government in mind, all the time we have, for example. have figures from 2014 that show that we're building down less land than we did on average for the eight years the Labour Party put in government. So the first premise before one asks another to clean up, is to sweep for their own door. I think it's still the basis for securing soil protection, but I mean at the same time that we have to look at what actually benefits, and it's in trasévala we make such assessments, it's in municipal planning processes. Therefore, I am busy following it up to the municipalities, so that they do a good job with this. Coordination of contradictions and possibilities for good local processes helps to increase soil protection, and I'm going to make sure that we follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e379	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e382	The fact that, in their contributions to the NTP, the trade unions do not have detailed plans for soil protection based on the new objectives of the Storting, I can see from the time perspective of December to March. But that there is no comment at all, in a small foreword at least, I think it is a bit alarming. The councils talked about sweeping for their own door, and in May the government warned the Stortinget that there would be a review of how soil protection, among other things. the concept investigation process, in particular in the field of transport, should be carried out. My question to the Council of State is, When will this review be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e389	The specific question should have been addressed to the Minister for Transport, who is responsible for those processes. But I feel that there's good progress in it, and at least I'm absolutely sure that we're not going to try to delay those processes, because they're decisive when we actually take these trasé options. I think the Christian People's Party is on the right track when they address that problem, because there's a lot of land disposal actually happening. I have respect for the decision that has been taken, and I believe that the government will, on its part, problemate the relationship between, on the one hand, an efficient, coherent infrastructure development, which is decisive for all the four cooperation parties, and, on the other hand, opportunities to improve soil protection, in order to achieve this goal that the Stortinget has now seen, when a report back to the NTP. But it is that the government has now received this report and will make its assessments, and will come back to it when she submits her proposal for a collective NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e396	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e399	There's a timely question that's being raised by the Center Party here today. By decision, which was referred to earlier, the Storting sent a comprehensive task and list to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for Transport as well as to the Minister for Agriculture with a clear order that the protection of food soils must be taken seriously. My question, then, to which I would like a concrete answer from the Minister of Agriculture, is: What will the Minister of Agriculture do to make soil protection stronger in the transport sector, which has been the theme here – in the NTP, in the municipal administration and up against the State, challenging the scarce resource that good food soil represents? What will the Council of State do in concrete terms? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e406	One thing I've already been inside. The objectives set by the Stortinget have been followed up with the municipalities and the administration. I will continue to do that – follow with the fact that it is actually being followed up. It's one of the concrete grips. The second is that it's about how we actually use the total resources. I'm assuming that the left also agrees that we're going to expand the rail sector in Norway for years to come. It will put pressure on the food soil, and that's why, among other things. important that we take care of the infrastructure we have, as far as possible. Hence, the maintenance effort that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have joined forces, is an important step towards not having to build up unnecessarily, and especially not on cultivated land. That work will continue. Then there are many processes that go on and on. I'm going to be busy doing the task I have of ensuring soil protection, even in processes that go smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e416	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e419	The question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. The size has been a target for organic farming since 1999. In 2010, Stortinget adopted 15 p.m. agriculture should be organic by 2020. Organic production contributes to making Norwegian agriculture more environmentally friendly and sustainable. In addition, organic farming contributes to a greater diversity of products for consumers. For those who should be in doubt, the left is ambitious in organic farming. Two weeks ago, the Riksrevision submitted an ominous report to the Stortinget, which shows that despite the objective of increasing organic production, development is not moving in the right direction. In 2014 only 4.7 pst. of the agricultural area used for the production of organic food and only 2,9 pst. of the livestock were organic. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, we are far behind in both the use of instruments and the results. In its report, the Riksrevision points out a number of reasons: that the organic legislation is too complex and inconclusive; that the incentives are not sufficient to increase organic production; that the government has not provided sufficient facilities to increase public consumption of organic food; and that the generic marketing of organic food is not sufficient to reach consumers, distributors, wholesale households and the retail trade. This list shows that the government actually has a number of instruments to use to increase organic production. My question is, When has the Minister planned to use these possibilities and instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e434	There is reason to take seriously the Riksaudition's message. It's very demanding to achieve the target of 15 pst. Organic by 2020, and I can't stand here and claim anything else. It would be imperative to reach it, and if you want to do it, you have to do it with several handles. But then we have to remember that what we're privileged to do in Norway is that there's very little distance between organic production and traditional agricultural production as opposed to what it is in a lot of other countries. The representative Farstad is very busy with the production of the organic now, but that's the way we produce 50 pst. more organic milk than what is sold as organic milk, because it passes into the conventional before it is sold, and two thirds of the organic meat we produce is sold as conventional meat. That's the main challenge, because it doesn't help to get organic production up if you can't translate it into the market. It's about the commercial demand, which is so far not big enough to provide the basis for new production. But I am busy that we are going to be able to contribute to both simplifications of rules and other measures to facilitate more organically, as the Stortinget has suggested. One of the grips I've done is, among other things, to open up so that we can have a greater and better basis for organic turkey production. It's about something as simple as simple legislative changes that give us the basis for getting more slowly changing races into Norway, and laying the groundwork for organic production in the areas where there is demand. I think it's a good idea to start there. It doesn't help to produce more if we don't translate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e443	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State itself points out that there are a number of instruments that can be used and that the Council of State has available to use, if he so wishes. What I want to draw out as a follow-up is that, in response to the Riksrevision, the Council of State says that demand-driven development is better than a development driven by the public. Then I come to what public demand, which I would like to have an answer to: Does the Minister disagree with the fact that the public can influence the demand for organic food through its own consumption, its own demand, as the Riksrevision writes in its report?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e448	The answer to that is no, and therefore I'm glad that we have a code in Norway that makes it possible for all state institutions to choose to buy organically. Some are good at it. For example, the National Audit Board points to: on the Defense, which is good. We have St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim, which is good. A lot more people can be better, and I think that's the basis for pointing out. There is room for action to choose more ecologically when shopping from the state's side. That opening is there, and I think there's room to use to an even greater extent than we do today, but we're also doing a lot right. Then there are some happy numbers, because in 2015 the organic agricultural area went up by 7 pst. I guess that's a good news for the representative of Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e453	It opens for follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e456	We have, through two large-scale messages, helped set a target of 15 pst. Organic agricultural production, but I believe both that the legislation has been too advanced and that consumers have not been clear enough that they want these products in Norway – versus Sweden and Denmark, which were mentioned earlier. That's why I think the marketing bit is important in this. The Council of State should simply sit down and find out when it is possible to achieve this objective, and what means are needed to do so. Then it would be smart if you could look at a comprehensive package of measures for that, come back to the Stortinget and present how to sketch out how to achieve that goal by 2020, because it is quite ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e461	I'm glad the Labour Party confirms that it's ambitious. When it's ambitious, it also means that it'll be demanding to reach it, and I need to be honest with that. I will follow up the call from the Labour Party through the agricultural message I am going to present, addressing these issues, so that the Storting can actually take that discussion, based on premises that show clearly what time it is possible to achieve the goal – the best possible – and also what kind of tool might be appropriate to achieve it. But there is no doubt that agricultural production, like all other productions, must be based on demand. This allows organic production to start and end with what consumers are willing to do. We see consumers who are willing to pay a lot of money for local food, we see some as organic, and we see others who are busy with other things when they do. That's what I think we're going to see, and that's also the basis for organic production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e466	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e469	A major part of the impact of good agriculture across the country and the environmental objectives we are about to achieve is the maintenance of the cultural landscape. This applies both to the conservation of biodiversity and to the experience of having a good cultural landscape. Nevertheless, we are in a situation, as the Minister of Agriculture and others also experience when they travel around the country, where we see that we have a cultural landscape that grows to a large extent again. It was a programme at the NRK a little while ago, about the future farmer, who also pointed out this issue. If one today looks at the percentage of feed from pasturage to Norwegian dairy cows, it's down to 9.7 p.m., and we're using more and more power feed, power feed that's so cheap that it's no longer profitable to use the land, even though we have a lot of land resources. I guess we're going to use about a third of this today. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Agriculture: how will he follow up so that we make more use of the land resources we have and get more animals to graze, so that we can take better care of the cultural landscape?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e476	This is a big question that I think could have had a hundred answers. But it's important that we have a balance in this. We produce cereals that we use in the power feed on our flattest areas, in the Austland, in the Trøndelag and partly on the Jären. It also provides the basis for grass production and landscape management based on livestock in the other parts of the country. If one removes the grain production because one has to feed the animals, one actually moves the farm to the flattest area, so here's one thing to think about at once. But I think it is good grazing both in the Norwegian inland and in the Norwegian outland. There are more cows grazing today than there were ten years ago, so there are positive trends as well. But once again, I think if we're going to produce food in Norway, there's two ways to do it: one is to produce just vegetables, and the other is to produce protein. If we're going to produce protein, it's easier to send the Norwegian cows to pasture than to send the Norwegian people to pasture. I therefore believe that Norwegian livestock will continue to exploit the land for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e482	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e485	The review by the National Audit Office of organic farming clearly shows that we have a great job to do to achieve the objective. We know the Council of State as a Council of State that wants effective action. The National Audit Board points out in the administrative audit that the control fee, which increased by 39 p.m. in 2014, helped to reduce production. It is also said that there was a large outsourcing of the scheme itself. The Council of State said to the representative Farstad that he is for regulatory simplification, and then my question is: What is the Council of State's assessment of the inspection fee? Is there anything you can simplify away?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e492	We come back to proposals with budgetary implications, and there's not just simplification in them. But I'm going to report to the Stortinget, when I make the agricultural report, different measures that may be appropriate in organic production as well. And I think it's a good idea for me to do it together, so that we actually get to evaluate which kind of grip is the most and least effective. We have e.g. has been reformed in organic production, not only to ensure that we produce grass and plants organically, but also to ensure that the organic production of grass and plants, e.g. of livestock, is also part of organic production. There are different tools that you can use to ensure that we stimulate more directly for the production of organic food. It's also part of the things I want to light up when I present the agricultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e499	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e502	I have a question to the State Council Dale that I think I share with a lot of consumers. My question is simply: does the Minister of Food think that organically produced food is healthier than food from traditional agricultural production?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e507	In any case, the environmental impact is less from organic production than from traditional production. I mean in Norway we have a huge advantage, in the sense that traditional agriculture is close to organic production. Norwegian lambs born in April, which are released on pasture – just enough with some fertilizer early in the spring – and who go out in the pasture until they are sent to the slaughterhouse in the autumn, are much closer to organic production than we see in many other countries. This I think is a bit of the challenge for organic production in Norway, that there is no significant distance between traditional agriculture on one side and organic farming on the other, in very many areas. This makes it harder for consumers to move into such a market than they do where they have more industrial focus in agriculture than we do in Norway. Because I think Norwegian food in sum is safe and healthy, and the environmental impact is probably less in organic farming than it is otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e516	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e519	This is the main point of organic farming, that we're going to take care of our food soil in a thousand-year perspective, because those who come after us are also going to have food. The turnover of organic products in Norway is doubled, but mostly imports are. There could have been both Norwegian and close, so there is a need for new measures. That's what we hope to get into the agricultural business. In the meantime, the Council of State is very concerned that there must be a market that needs — while answering rather vaguely questions about the state of the sea, through its purchases, can help to increase the volume of procurement, which could lead to a market where it is possible to have these products placed on the market. The question is whether the Council of State will take the initiative to ensure that all state canteens and all state measures ensure that they have a certain share of organic food in their orders.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e528	The paradox in discussing organic farming is that all parties on the Stortinget think we should increase food production. At the same time, we must increase the share of organic farming. It does not necessarily lead to an increase in food production – it can go the other way. At the same time, part of the party on Stortinget is against strengthening the farmers who want to produce more. It must be a context of total policy. Increased food production and the goal of organic farming are partly opposite. I am because the state also uses its purchasing mechanisms. I mean, today's occasion. I don't see – as of today – that there's a basis for putting stronger leads than what's already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e535	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e538	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On the TV 2 news last night we could follow the story of little Mohammed in five years who had gone away from his mother and his family when Macedonian border guards used tear gas against refugees on the Greek-Macedon border. We know that the little five-year-old was doing well, we don't know how everyone else involved in the troubles. What we know is that a large proportion of the refugees who now enter Greece and try to move on in Europe are women and children – a much larger proportion than last year. When tear gas is used against women and children, it is in a situation where Macedonia has closed the border because countries further north are closing its borders, and Macedonian authorities are afraid to get into a situation where very many refugees remain silent in their country. Those who guard these borders act like this on behalf of Norway and other countries that do not want to accept refugees. We must then ask ourselves how many children to sleep in the cold are subjected to violence and rejected before European governments begin to do what should be their main priority now, namely to cooperate on something other than closed borders – some form of solidarity between refugees in Europe. I would therefore like to ask the government what the government thinks about the consequences of what is also Norway's policy, namely that children are subject to the kind of treatment that we saw Mohammed was exposed to on TV 2 yesterday. What is the government's view of that kind of treatment of refugees, and what will the government do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e552	I react when the representative Lightbakken says that those who are now on the border with Macedonia on the Macedonian side are guarding the border on behalf of countries like Norway who will not accept refugees. Last year, 31 000 refugees and asylum seekers arrived in Norway. Norway is one of the most widely accepted countries in Europe in relation to the population. We also welcome quota refugees through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. If we see it in relation to the population and absolute numbers, we're at the very top. I think we have to be so sober that, after all, we have to deal with what is real – Norway takes a great deal of responsibility. We also have major challenges now to integrate, not least there are many lone minors coming to Norway – we have heard it in the news and not least through the Children’s Ombudsman – where we are now striving to get up with a good enough offer to these children. As far as the situation in Europe is concerned, as I was concerned in the past, it is absolutely essential that we have control of the external border of Schengen. It is absolutely essential that we put in place a completely different kind of effort against cynical human traffickers who have brought people into Europe and do not problem what challenges they face. Hundreds die on the voyage across the Aegean, the same from Libya to Italy, but what we don't have figures for is how many children, how many women, how many vulnerable groups there are that lose their lives on the way over the Sahara, through difficult areas like Libya. We need to do more to strengthen the robustness of many of the countries from which these come. We need to do more to prevent war through peacemaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e561	The Minister for Foreign Affairs does not answer my question. I do not deny that there are challenges for Norway in this, but the government has to deal with the consequences of its own policy. And the consequences of the race towards the bottom of refugee rights in Europe in which Norway is involved are what we see at the Macedonian border. The Norwegian government can't be serious about that. We must be able to ask for a proper answer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about, and what kind of message he has, for example. will give to Macedonian authorities. I want to ask a question about Greece, because I'm responding to the critical tone the Foreign Minister used to have against the Greek authorities. It is an absolute illusion to believe that the Greek coast should be able to be closed for refugees. It is therefore pointless to support that kind of requirement. The Greek government has faced a difficult situation of dignity. I met representatives of Syriza, the government party, at the latest this weekend. They're asking for help. They're asking for help now. It's a very dramatic situation. It is good that Norway has contributed some EEA funds, but now the Greek government is asking for much more help. I would therefore like to know whether the government in Norway will respond to this by further increasing aid to Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e568	Fortunately, it is not that because if the representative Lysbakken says that I do not answer his question, that is the reality. I answered the question that was asked about the initiatives we have taken to stabilise the situation both at the external border of Schengen and to counteract the wave of migration we are now experiencing. But I noticed that the representative Lysbakken did not comment on this because he believed that these guard the border on behalf of countries that do nothing to help others. With the initiative we have taken at the International Humanitarian Conference and with the number we have received in Norway, I think it falls on its own unreasonableness. Then I agree with the representative Lighthouse that we need to do more to help Greece in the future. It is a serious crisis when tens of thousands of refugees and asylum seekers live in Greece. It is a country that has major economic problems, and we need to see if we are going to use humanitarian aid directly into Greece as well. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e577	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e580	Yes, it remains for the Foreign Minister to respond to his opinion that it is acceptable for us in Europe to meet women and children with barbed wire and tear gas. This is a consequence of the policy now being pursued in countries by country, where the government and the majority of population have opposed the SV’s proposals on, for example: taking the initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement for a better sharing of responsibilities. Here it seems that the leakage from the U.D.'s note that human rights have to give up in order to ensure stability is, in fact, the government's policy. So to the question, the Foreign Minister says that Nordic initiatives should also be taken. NTB was able to report yesterday that the Council of State Listhaug is at a Nordic meeting right now, but neither in yesterday's presentation nor in today's answers we get some concrete information about the content of this Nordic meeting. What measures is Norway now negotiating with the Nordic countries to deal with the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e587	I'm actually reacting a little bit to the tone of the question that is now being asked. Starting to accuse others of not dealing with human rights and the conventions to which we have joined are, in fact, quite serious accusations. I build my political work on dealing with the standards that are set. And Norway is the leader in providing humanitarian aid, and we are now the leader in trying to achieve a better distribution of responsibilities between the European countries. A fairer distribution of responsibilities allows us to take care of several refugees and asylum seekers, so that we can avoid the kind of polarisation we are now experiencing. I just announced in the response to the Light Background that we are now also looking at the possibilities of providing humanitarian funds to Greece. I think we all largely want to make a positive and good contribution to this situation, but in fact, I believe that we are not continuing to deal with 1 million refugees and asylum seekers entering Europe every year. And there we see it differently than SV does, and that's why we're stepping up the stakes, among other things. in exposed countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e596	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e599	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Jan Arild Ellingsen, the spokesman of the Progress Party, said in Political Quarter on February 23 that he gave tribute to the self-declared Civil Protection Group of Odin’s soldiers. Among other things, he gave reasons for this. that Norwegian police don't have enough resources to do their job. There are at least two things that are eye-catching about this. First of all, it's the party that has the top responsibility to create security in the streets and to make sure that the police have enough resources to do it, even thinking they won't. Secondly, it is alarming that a government party favours what is a civil protection group, originally founded by a self-declared nynazist in Finland, where the Norwegian spokesperson has been a person associated with the Norwegian Defence League, and where the symbols on which the group plays are clearly a right extreme symbol. On the same day, the Prime Minister took a clear distance from the announcements of the Progress Party representative. She also added – and this is important – that they have a dangerous sense of value. On the same day, the Minister of Justice also spoke out. His comment was that it is the police who are going to secure the streets, and that he has difficulty seeing that Odin's soldiers have a role in this context. He did not, even if he had the possibility of it, distanced himself from the value of Odin's soldiers. So I thought I could give him the opportunity to do today. Is it such that the Minister of Justice like the Prime Minister believes that Odin's soldiers have a dangerous view of value?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e612	I agree with the Prime Minister in her statements on this issue. I would like to comment on some of the other issues that the representative also raises. If she listened to that representative Ellingsen actually said in Political Quarter, he said that one will never get into a situation where one can afford to get away from crime. There's no government that's gonna make it. This does not mean that the police do not have the resources to handle the job they are assigned to do, and since the government change, we have strengthened the police with 1,054 new posts, if one includes the budget for 2016. This means that they are now significantly better equipped to handle these kinds of tasks as well. So I think that exactly that side of the statement more was the coin that we'll never get into a situation where you can give enough money to a cop who makes sure we'll never experience crime. There is no defence for mobilising civil protection groups. It is not allowed in Norway. It's the police that have the task of securing our streets today, and that's how it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e623	I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice now, eight days later, takes a clear distance from the values of Odin's soldiers. It's very reasonable that he does it, it's a bit of clarity that you might need. And the language interpretation of Ellingen's appointments is also interesting. But I'm more interested that we're based on what was de facto his quote in that debate, namely that he says we have a cityscape where the Norwegian police don't have enough resources to do their job. Then I'm not looking for a linguistic interpretation of what this can mean or how it can be understood, but it's about this de facto quote: that we have a cityscape where the Norwegian police don't have enough resources to do their job – and the context then is that one has to encourage others to take on that responsibility. My question is: does the Minister of Justice agree with the reality of this quote, that is, the Norwegian police don't have the resources to keep our streets safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e632	I do not agree that the Norwegian police do not have enough resources to handle the security of our streets. But I think, in the name of justice to the representative Ellingen, that you not only have to take one quote with you, you also have to take what he said to clarify that quote in the debate afterwards. It was just, as I said in my previous answer, the context that you can't afford to get away from crime by giving money to the police. Then we would live in a society that neither Tajik nor I would think was acceptable. But it is quite obvious that the reinforcement we have made by the Norwegian police has made the police even better able to handle the security of our streets, and there is no need to go around and be insecure in Norwegian streets today. We live in a safe country and have a very effective police force. We have also implemented a number of measures to improve the response time to the police. For the first time in history, we have, for example, established response time requirements for the police, which this government has been concerned with, but which the previous government considered to be unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e640	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e643	It is good that the Minister of Justice is clear in the question of value that Odin's soldiers have some basic values that are not desirable in Norwegian society, it is good that the Minister of Justice is clear that he agrees. My question is: when the Minister of Justice has made such a clear statement as he has made about that view of value, I wonder: What will the Minister of Justice do to follow up that view of value in practical action in Norway? We're talking about recruitment, we're talking about monitoring, and we're talking not least about getting these groups and that view of value to get smaller, and that they're increasingly unable to carry out the kind of "citizen protection" that they obviously want. What concrete action will the Minister of Justice take to follow up his own view of value, namely that this is not desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e650	We don't have it this way in Norway, which is an open democratic society, that we should persecute or monitor people based on values. We do that based on whether or not they commit criminal acts. If Odin's soldiers were to commit criminal acts, the police and prosecution authorities would follow it up, not the state council. In general, if the representative Henriksen thinks of more radicalist attitudes, what we call extremism, then the government has its own action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, where there are a number of measures – 30 in the number, in fact, there are several now, because we have supplemented with several measures after implementing parts of the plan – which will help to draw people out of environments that can make them radicalised and pose a threat to Norway in the longer term. It is not an action plan aimed only at a few forms of extremism; it is an action plan aimed at extremism in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e657	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e660	As the representative of Hadia Tajik, there is a great gap in the arrests of Odin's soldiers between the representative Ellingen from the Party of Advances and Prime Minister Solberg from the Right. The Prime Minister says that Odin's soldiers have no place in the work to secure the streets, so here's a gap between two government parties. But also within the police there is a big gap in the perception and approach of this group. After the differences of opinion in the police came to light, I wonder whether guidelines or instructions have been given by the Minister of Justice or the police director on how the police districts should deal with Odin's soldiers. You don't know, it's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e665	First of all, there's no crack in the government on this issue. We've seen, as the representative correctly says, that there's been different handling from the police. We may still be able to see that one is dealing with the different situations in the different police districts, but the police director has told the police districts how to deal overall with groups like Odin's soldiers. It is in line with the legislation — civil protection groups are not allowed in Norway. Of course, if there are groups of people who have the intention and act in a way that they should have some kind of authority, the police will shut it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e670	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e673	I'm also very pleased that Anders Anundsen is very much in agreement with the prime minister of the country as to the value of Odin's soldiers, and that he is also taking a distance from it. One of the things that Odin's soldiers are trying to create is that it's far more unsafe to travel in Norwegian city streets today than it's been in the past. Without using Odin's soldiers as truth witnesses, it might be interesting to hear the Minister of Justice say a little about how he experiences the streetscape and the security, possibly the insecurity. What, if any, will the Minister of Justice do to make our streets safer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e678	It is a question I am very happy to have, because I do not agree that it is unsafe in Norwegian streets. I believe that we live in a safe country; we see that there has also been a development of the crime scene that shows the same – that for example. in Oslo, which has been one of the police districts most plagued by both raids, street violence, etc., security has become extremely much better in recent years. It'll never be that you can't risk being exposed to anything, it's happening in absolutely all parts of society. But in Norway and in our cities one is mostly very, very safe. We always have to focus on how we can do things better. This is the last thing that has led to so much better results in Oslo. The police in Oslo are present where they should be, they are present where most events usually occur. We saw a very good handling and follow-up – so far in dialogue with several – in the wave we had a few years ago. It shows that the police are constantly on to solve the challenge and make sure that you and I are going to be safe in our streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e685	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e688	I also welcome this clear rejection of civil protection groups. We're definitely not going to have that. But the last thing the Minister of Justice went into is interesting, namely the situation in Oslo and the cooperation the police have with local authorities. The police are strengthened, and they need to have a presence, but it's hard to have presence in many places. I have been in Oslo myself to take the initiative and have also adopted a system of Oslo guards, namely traffic officers who are involved and complement the presence that the police do not have. And you have night saws and others that also contribute to having a presence in the public space, which is the most important democratic arena we have. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Justice: How does the Minister of Justice view the type of local initiative, which can be involved and provide security in public space and have a presence, in good cooperation with the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e696	I think that's very good, and what's happened in Oslo is actually an example of follow-up, where one from the local level cooperates with the police on where it's important to be and at what times it's important to be there. The cooperation with the Night Roads is unenforceable. It's a collaboration with the weight companies that contributes to the same thing. This is also why the focus now is on implementing the close police reform, on establishing the good and healthy local cooperation areas between the police on the one hand and local authorities on the other, so that the best possible overall use of resources is made. However, it is also important in this discussion to keep the distinction between the exercise of police authority and the presence in areas where the police can be quickly alerted if something is developing. It's a cooperation I'm very positive to, and I'm concerned that we're going to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e701	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e713	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mr Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Question 2, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 12, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e730	This question, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e733	‘The government is now preparing for the competitive deployment of several routes in Norway. The first two packages shall be submitted for tender in 2017 starting from December 2018. The train equipment shall be leased out by a State company, assuming that the employees become part of the business transfer and that they retain their rights. Everyone can rent today's workshop on equal terms. How will you get a ‘better’ and, where appropriate, cheaper offer when you’re about to operate the way you’re doing today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e740	The government has made a huge leap for the railways. The government has chosen to pay particular attention to the role of the railway in the collective effort in urban areas and in the goods industry. In the years we've been in government, we've got a double stake in railway maintenance. After many years of obsolescence, the maintenance run is now reduced. Infrastructure will be upgraded and material renewed. In addition, the number of take-offs is expanded. I would like to remind you that this bet is far higher than originally planned in the present NTP, and if we were to come down to the level of ambition that the Labour Party put them in government, we could have reduced the fees by 3.4 billion. kr. Our railway effort is taking place on a broad front – all in order to make it more attractive to travel with the railways, both for ordinary people and for the goods industry. That's why we also look at the way the iron track is organized. Before most parts of the transport sector use the offer principle to provide the best possible service at an acceptable cost. We do that on a bus, ferry, plane and speedboat. When it's about the railroad, we've already done it on the Gjøvik track through the use of very good results. The number of take-offs has increased, the level of subsidies has been reduced and customer satisfaction is better. Competition is an important and well-used tool to create innovation and to get new and customer-oriented solutions, also in many municipalities and municipalities where the Workers' Party controls, this is well known. From the contractor's side, it will be suggested that actors be creative within the framework set, and will focus on attracting new customers and developing effective solutions. An important starting point for competition must be for train operators to compete under the same conditions as possible. In order to ensure this, it is therefore essentially not envisaged to compete for key capital-intensive inputs such as sales and ticketing systems, train equipment, access to workshops and neither pay and working conditions. On the other hand, there will be a number of parameters that train companies can compete for, for example. how they will manage the maintenance, how they will organise the operation and optimise the use of the train fleet and other resources, how they will affect the interior solutions and design the service concept and quality, how they will design market plans and arrangements for increasing customer satisfaction, how they will design the tariffs within the limits set by the state, and how they will use the grid based on a defined timetable. There are many areas in which we can compete, and in the cases where we have used competition in the past, for example. on Gjøvikbana, good results have been achieved. The goal is to do it now for the whole railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e766	Thanks for the answer. It's true that the railways are doing well, but it's not right that this promise started with a new government. When the Stoltenberg government took over, it was used approx. 6 B.C.E. kr for railway purposes. When the Stoltenberg government presented its last budget, it was increased to 18.7 billion. kr – in fact an increase of 167 pst., overall, for railway purposes. The NTP adopted in June 2013 continued that effort. We see the result of that, and I am very happy that today's government has followed up. We actually got the result at the end of last week, and this week the result was for 2015. There we can see that the NSB has a surplus of 2.8 billion. kr – 1,2 br. kr of it comes from passenger traffic. It's not that it's the Gjøvik track that's the success; the success is the way we've been betting on the NSB. Why, then, is it a point that the surplus of the NSB, which today goes both to buy more trains and to pay dividends to the Treasury, should now be able to go instead to large international transport companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e773	This inherent scepticism of competition to increase the shortage of Norwegian railways, I don't understand where it comes from. We have room for more, because more people are going to use the train in the future. The basis on which we actively invest in both the operation and maintenance of the railway system and new investments is precisely that. When there are hundreds of more trains in the Oslo region now than when we took over, it's about there's more things to compete about. When we increase competition, and when we increase supply, there is room for more actors, more actors who compete for the best possible provision for passengers. I think it's a derailment to make this a question of how much we destroy for the NSB or one. I feel that the dialogue with the NSB as a company is constructive in finding reasonable boundaries within this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e778	NSB goes and laughs, and better than ever. We're looking at increasing customer satisfaction, we're looking at the economy, and only from 2012, the number of travelers has increased by 26 pst. There is no reason for this increase not to continue. We're all adding that up to -- we're adding that we're still going to have an increase. We need more to travel collectively, including using the train. Then it is strange that the increase that will come, as we see from the results that are available, should go to private actors instead of going back to society, to the state, either in the form of dividends or by being left in the company, so that you can continue it. It still seems strange. Because it's not like there's competition on the track, there's going to be competition on the track. Why the government is so busy changing a winning recipe that we're now seeing yields good results, we don't understand. You should have ice in your stomach and develop the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e785	The NSB is good, and they're good at it. But it's not like they've done that job on their own. The residual value guarantees on the train equipment from the State of the NSB make them run with up-to-date material, which makes them attractive to use – targeted bets from the government’s side, as a means of getting more people to choose the train. When there are several departures, it is also a matter of providing a basis for more people to get away from the car and use the railway – targeted bet from the government’s side. This effort will continue even when there is a shortage of providers in the railway sector, and that is what the railway reform is doing. We're going to be able to use more trains, we're going to be able to maintain and operate our infrastructure better, and we're going to be able to give customers a wide choice of offers, which also means they're going to put the car away and use trains instead. It is the intention, and it is delivered in the railway reform that the government is now in the process of implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e803	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e810	‘To achieve the 50 pst reduction target in Oslo. it is absolutely necessary to complete all heating of buildings with fossil oil. The government has created uncertainty about such a ban by provisionally or totally rejecting the ban on the use of fossil fuel oil in commercial buildings when it is cold, so-called top load/eating load. Will the Council of State follow up the objective of the Government Declaration to prohibit all use of fossil oil for the heating of buildings and when will it promote the proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e817	It is important to ensure the transition to renewable building heating sources in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As the representative Holmås says, the Stortinget in the 2012 climate agreement asked the government to impose a ban on fossil fuel oil firing in households and to the baseload of other buildings in 2020. This is also reflected in the government statement. On behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Directorate for the Environment has made a proposal for a regulation. That proposal is now making some further assessments of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, together with other departments concerned. Then, in addition to last year, Stortinget has asked the government to consider extending the ban to cover the top load. That assessment is now making the government – we are investigating possible arrangements and consequences of extending the ban to cover top loads. The government will come back to this as soon as those assessments are ready. We are committed by the government to the fact that the ban should be clear in good time before it enters into force, so that those affected by the ban have time to adapt. But at the same time, it is clear that when the Storting's will is so clear and the government statement is clear, those who fire fossil oil have been given a clear signal through the climate agreement that they need to find alternatives to fossil oil firing. That's why there's predictability embedded here. The size will be kept properly informed about the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e826	The Council of State takes a little further in this respect in relation to what was in the State budget last year, namely that the assessment of peak loads would be postponed until later. I would therefore like to quote from the government statement and it says that the government will: ‘Safe phasing out of fossil oil firing in all public buildings by 2018 and prohibiting the use of fossil oil for heating in all buildings from 2020 onwards. Enova’s aid scheme for the conversion and phasing-out of oil fires is strengthened.’ So it's not going to be allowed to fire fossil fuel oil when it's cold, top load. If the government introduces fuel oil bans in all buildings both when it is hot and when it is cold, Norway will be able to cut 1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions annually, the decisive measure to achieve the climate target in 2020. Does the Minister for the Environment think it is right to introduce a ban on firing fossil fuel oil for old Olga in a rowhouse, while Olav Thon's hotels will continue to fire fossil fuel oil when it's cold?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e840	It is quite right, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says, that this is an important measure in the context of climate change. It is not quite clear how much emission effect it will have. There is a great deal of tension in the evaluations, and that is one of the reasons why the proposal for a ban needs to be carefully examined and assessed in accordance with the investigation guide. It is true that the Storting asked that the prohibition and phasing-out be designed with the necessary exceptions and to ensure security of supply, and the Stortinget also asked that these exemptions be further investigated. Then it is not natural for me to give a bastant answer today. At the top of that exit decision from Stortinget, we have been asked to consider extending the ban to top loads in commercial buildings, and that assessment requires extensive professional analysis, and they are now doing, among other things. The Directorate for the Environment, the NVE and the Ministry for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e847	It would be good if we could get an answer from the Council of State on when we can expect to get this to Stortinget, because we would like to deal with this in the best possible way. According to the municipality of Oslo’s climate and energy plan, the use of heating oil for the heating of buildings accounts for 250000 tonnes of CO2 in greenhouse gas emissions. This is one quarter of the total greenhouse gas emissions from fuel oil throughout Norway and 20 pst. of Oslo greenhouse gas emissions. If the government does not propose to impose a ban on all fossil fuel oil firing, it will in reality be impossible for Oslo to achieve its 50 pst emission target. Although the Council of State cannot guarantee a ban on firing fossil oil when it is cold, can it allow more ambitious environmental municipalities, such as Oslo, to impose local bans on all fossil fuel oil uses for heating construction, or will he possibly train Oslo's climate ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e859	First of all, I have no ambitions to train Oslo's climate ambitions. I also have no ambitions to ignore the fact that we have clear request decisions from Stortinget. But I ask for an understanding that the Storting itself has asked that these things be thoroughly investigated, among other things. in the interests of security of supply and that the framework for any necessary exemptions must also be established. It'll take some time, but it'll be important to get this in place as soon as possible. It's clear that the faster we can do it, so that people can set themselves up by 2020, the better, but people shouldn't be in any doubt about where this is going. We have a point of such a ban in the Government Declaration, and it is also the basis of the Grand Duchy's request decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e868	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Just five years after Aker’s closure as a local hospital, the OUS enters its recommended alternative to building a new local hospital in Aker. But because three parts of the Groruddalen were moved to the crowded Ahus, these with today's recording areas will not get new Aker as their local hospital. If it is cleared early that the three districts are moved back to the OYS, enough capacity on Aker could be planned to cover both these and urban areas under Ullevål. How does the Council of State view the need for this clarification, and when will it do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e877	The Board of Oslo University Hospital has joined a future OUS target. This means a target image with a comprehensive and complete regional hospital – including local hospital functions – at Gaustad, a local hospital in Aker and cancer treatment at Radium Hospital. However, the Management Board notes that there are risks that should be clarified. After the Management Board meeting on 28 January, the matter was sent to Health South-East for further consideration. It is correct, as the representative, Mr Bøhler, points out, that Oslo University Hospital has used the population base in today's area of uptake as a basis for planning work. I have therefore been concerned that Health South-East is looking into the development of the entire capital region as a whole, and especially the relationship between Akershu University Hospital and Oslo University Hospital. On 17 December last year, the Board of Health South-East dealt with a report on the capacity of the hospitals Oslo and Akershus. Here it is clear that Akershus University Hospital has a significant demand for relief in somatic services by 2030. The report points to increased use of the Diakon home Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital as a possible solution. However, this solution will increase the burden on Oslo University Hospital, unless Akershu University Hospital retains some of the responsibility for some disciplines. The capacity report shall be in consultation with the deadline of 7 April. Health South-East will see this project in conjunction with the idea phase work at Oslo University Hospital, where the solution with a local hospital on Aker is included. The plan is that the Board of Health South-East assesses the overall capacity requirement in Oslo for decision-making relief solutions for Akershu University Hospital in June 2016. It is important to point out that the relief of Akershu University Hospitals must be gradual, so that the hospital has a predictable operating situation and economy, and that the capacity is used in a good way. The development of Aker Hospital will have to take place in line with increased capacity needs and as part of the overall approach to the renewal of the building stock at Oslo University Hospital. In this context, it is natural to consider whether it would be appropriate to add the three districts of Oslo that are currently offered to Akershu University Hospital, to Oslo Hospital and, where appropriate, to a new local hospital in Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e888	I thank the Council of State for an informative and good response. There were many important points in the answer. I just want to comment that it's only been five years since – I'll say – a huge bomber in the calculations of how much capacity you had on Ahus when it came to transferring these parts of the city in Groruddalen there. It was only three to four years after they were transferred, that Lovisenberg and the Diakon home began to be used for relief. In the long term, I would like to say about the solution of using Lovisenberg and the Diakon home as a relief hospital for Aarhus that there must be a temporary solution to a permanent solution, because it must be primarily the local hospital that has the reception area, which will have enough capacity to operate it. If there's no new plans to expand Ahus, the logic is that the three districts have to be returned to Oslo University Hospital, pretty strong. My goal now is to make the Council of States obsess about this and follow with it until June.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e893	I have a great deal of attention to what the representative of Bohemia says. I am also of the opinion that there will always be an advantage if the patients and the caregivers in an area are very aware of which hospitals you belong to, and that there are opportunities for good and close cooperation between the primary health service and a hospital. It speaks of having more transparent relationships than patients now experience. That is why I have also been so concerned that Health South-East must take the overall responsibility, so that one does not risk each healthcare company planning only within its areas without anyone thinking about the whole, which may have been a bit of the challenge in the previous processes. That's why I'm very aware of what the representative here is raising. I am also going to include it in the follow-up meetings I have with Health South-East about this, which I have already had.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e898	I thank you for a good additional response. I would just like to point out that Health South-East had the overall responsibility last time as well. But they did not manage it well then – when they were so sure that there would be enough capacity on Aarhus, that they left the broad side to convince local politicians on the Oslo City Council that this would go well. So you just turned around three or four years later. Now they really have to take responsibility and learn from the giant bomb they did the last time. I have a question in the follow-up to it: When you add up to use the Diakon home and Lovisenberg as a relief hospital, how does the government council view building up the use of hospitals that have so little self-coverage? For example, Lovisenberg has a self-covering of only 28 pst. of the services. 72 pst. of the services they are responsible for as a local hospital, proceed to Ullevål. The corresponding number for the Diakon home is 62 pst. How does the Council of State view the use of local hospitals that have so little self-coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e905	This work also needs to look at the division of tasks between the different hospitals in Oslo. I think that from the population growth we have, there will be a need for hospital services in all of these places that are mentioned. What's important is to get a sense of the division of problems. It is true, as the representative says, that in today's situation there is a relatively low self-coverage in these hospitals, but there are assessments and plans that might do something about it. I feel quite confident that both Lovisenberg and the Diakon home hospital will be hospitals that Oslo's population will enjoy and benefit from in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e916	‘The Minister of Health has instructed hospital managers in Norway that they should not paint or explain any warning problems. After this, the Director of Health Nord has requested evidence from the company’s website that there is a fear culture in hospitals. He claims that making such claims, without being more concrete, is very serious, and will affect the entire business, and weaken the management that performs an important societal mission. Do the Council of State agree with these claims?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e923	It is a management responsibility to create a culture in hospitals that supports the freedom of expression of employees and of trust elected persons and the ability to alert them in the event of adverse events. My impression is that health regions, health businesses and hospitals are taking this seriously. In recent weeks, some employees and trustees have experienced a lack of freedom of expression and fear of reprisals when alerting. This may also pose a risk to patient safety. It shouldn't be like that. I want transparency and good conditions for freedom of expression at the hospitals. At the business meeting in January, I asked the health regions to continue working to improve patient safety and to see it in the context of health, environmental and safety work. At a seminar of the Boards of Health Regions on 16 February, openness and freedom of expression were an important topic. There I asked the rulers to make a plan and follow up with the necessary measures to change the culture where there is a need for it. Knowledge from the Patient Safety Programme ‘In Safe Hands’ shall be used in this work. The status shall be presented at a follow-up meeting with the health regions in June this year. I trust that the boards and management of health regions will follow up this important work on their health businesses. Of course, the opinion of regional health business directors and managers on conditions of expression will draw attention to this. The opinion to which the representative Toppe refers must be seen in the context of employee and trust-elected performances related to the situation at the University Hospital in North Norway. My clear position is that management must take the concerns expressed, in the utmost seriousness, and have preparedness and action to follow up properly. It is a management responsibility to ensure that employees and trustees experience transparency and good conditions for freedom of expression at our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e936	Thanks for the answer. I see what the Council of State said at the end of the article, so the Council of State does not think that statements should be made that can be perceived as leaders of Norwegian hospitals think it must be documented if one says that here there is an unhealthy culture, a fear culture and a culture that does not facilitate openness. However, I thought it was quite alarming – as the Council of State had just instructed its directors – that claims on fear culture had to be documented. Will the Council of State respond again: Does he think that the requirement for documentation was superfluous?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e945	To say that there is a culture of fear: I do not think it is a good input into this discussion to take as a starting point that there is generally a culture of fear in the Norwegian hospitals, but that does not mean that I do not agree that it may be in some hospitals and in some departments. However, the challenge is much greater. Through the patient safety study, we have seen that 44 pst. Hospital departments feel that there is no culture of transparency and culture for working together as a team related to patient safety and quality — and there is a much wider problem. It's very much about which management culture you're going to be able to create. I expect all leaders at all levels now to take this most seriously. Then there'll be places where there's also something as serious as a fear culture, and of course we're going to grab hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e954	I agree that one must also talk about patient security and openness – and that is what we are very good at – but I record that someone distinguishes between talking about warning and having a culture of fear. I mean, there could be kind of two sides of the same thing. Back to the leaders of Norwegian hospitals and responsibility for the leaders in the run-up: another health manager has stated the reason for a culture of fear. Former Ministerial Council Lande Hasles states that a culture of fear may have been created by the arrogance of the doctor, because it “is easier to become arrogant than humble when you are admitted to medical school” and is going through it. Is there an announcement in which the Council of State agrees, or does he see it differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e961	No, I do not agree with what the former Ministerial Council said in this area. I also believe that there is a challenge in this discussion that there are many other agendas that are linked to this. Some will discuss this with New Public Management. Some will discuss it on the basis that they want to change the management model. Some people want to discuss it on the basis of a general discussion about the changed role of a doctor. All these discussions are important and exciting, but they can help very quickly to cover what is actually the basic problem, namely that we need to work systematically to get better management, culture and systems in the Norwegian hospitals than the patient safety study tells us that we have. I am therefore very concerned to hold on to this. That doesn't mean that I think the other discussions are irrelevant, but it gets very quick attention away from what's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e972	‘The Ministry states in the letter of award to Juss-Bus that funds cannot be used for legal work. Juss-Buss says it prevents their legal work. They have been critical of government policies, including: sending prisoners to the Netherlands and treating asylum-seekers. It may seem that the Council of State wants to criticise the letter of assignment. Never before has such a limitation been made. What is the reason why the Council of State considers that there is a need to prevent Juss-Buss from taking part in the legal debate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e979	Let me first start by saying that the premise for the question is wrong, and that it is obviously not that neither I nor others intend to prevent anyone from participating in the legal debate, which the questioner raises in his question. I think the questioner is also aware of that. I would also like to refer to my answers to written questions on the same topic recently. As demonstrated by the legislation on grants for special legal aid measures, the aim is to facilitate cost-effective legal assistance for particularly vulnerable groups and people in a particularly difficult situation, which may perceive the threshold for seeking ordinary legal assistance to be too high. The scheme has been evaluated. It was evaluated by Oxford Research in 2015 and the evaluation report showed that the different legal aid organisations meet the objectives of the grant scheme in varying degrees. Oxford Research proposed two options to improve the target achievement: either to redeploy parts of the grant from low-target organisations to best-achieved organisations, or to the best-targeted organisations, or, alternatively, to introduce more stringent application of the award criteria by specifying that the grant funds should go to that intended to ensure legal assistance. I chose the two models the last time because I thought it would be the least intrusive to those organisations that offer this form of legal aid. The majority of the Stortinget stressed the importance of the scheme, inter alia: increase the 2016 allocation by a total of 10 million. kr, i.e. the total appropriation in 2016 is higher than 46 million. kr. Then I want to make the representative particularly aware that the Ministry of Justice and Defence briefed the Stortinget in Prop. 1 S for 2015-2016 that the government would impose stricter requirements on beneficiaries of special legal aid measures. The aim of this tightening up is to clarify that the grant funds are to provide legal assistance to persons in a particularly difficult situation or particularly vulnerable groups. It is my responsibility to ensure that the purpose of the grant is clear to the beneficiaries, so that they use funds in line with the objectives of the scheme and in line with the provisions of the Financial Regulation. All beneficiaries of grants for special legal aid measures were clarified in the 2016 letter of grant as follows: ‘It is not possible to use the grant for activities that fall outside the scope of this grant scheme, such as legal work.’;» Thus, the grant received by these organisations from the Ministry of Justice and Defence is not an ordinary grant for organisational work or operating grants. The grant has been granted to the organisations to provide legal assistance. Work beyond this can be financed from other sources or done as voluntary work. As the questioner knows, I have never tried to restrict anyone's voluntary legal work or freedom of expression. There is nothing to prevent organisations from doing this activity alongside providing legal assistance. In fact, I believe it is an important voice that we should listen to, and it is not at all the government's policy to limit the freedom of expression of these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e995	The Minister has earlier experience in trying to criticise — burning the paper in the fireplace, making films that produce the Council of State in a more positive light than the media does — and now an attempt at tying organizations that express themselves on critical issues. It is called Gag Clauses, clauses that prevent state and regime criticism. It is incomprehensible that the Council of State can conclude that legal policy is separate from legal aid, which is the core issue here. If the rules or practice of the rules are to the detriment of the individuals to whom they are to help, will not it be precisely to say whether that kind of disadvantage is an important prerequisite for what the minister says he wants — the best possible legal aid to the maximum possible — and on which there is a great deal of agreement? How does the Minister feel that legal aid can provide good legal assistance if it is found that the rules are wrong and they cannot work for or disclose that rules or decisions should be amended?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1004	I just have to be allowed to comment on the premises also on this question, where the representative refers to a funny comment on Facebook long before I became the Council of State, about a launch with a particular newspaper in the fireplace. I do not think it is worthy of the House to draw up such strange examples, but it is up to the representative Henriksen to take responsibility for himself. I think it's bringing the debate down to a level where it doesn't deserve to be. I am concerned that those engaged in legal policy should be a clear and good voice in the public change of words. So are they. But at the same time, I am concerned that the assumptions of the Storting in this area must also be followed. We had a major grant case in the Control and Constitutional Committee in the previous period, including: the theme was whether the grants had gone to the objective of the grant scheme. When we get an evaluation report that says that there is varying degrees of achievement in line with the objective of the grant, it would be a failure of the Council of State not to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1011	The question here is whether it is out of the question and whether the majority of the population interprets the decision in relation to the proposition to which the Council of State refers, in the same way as the Council of State does. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have stated publicly that they do not agree with the Council's interpretation of the remarks. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has said: ‘At least we have had no aim to stop the important influence of Juss-bus.’ The leader of the left, Trine Skei Grande, has said: ‘until now, the Storting majority agree that the funds can be used for legal work.’ [[...]] Norwegian traditions have just been encouraging critical participation in civil society. From the point of view of the parties to cooperation, what will the Council of State do to bring the allocation in line with what is obviously the intention of the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1028	It obviously does not help that I say that I do not agree with the premise for the question, because the premises are only repeated and repeated. While there is no objective to prevent organisations from participating in open opinions and debates on legal policy, the aim is to use grants in accordance with the objectives pursued. If the Storting wants to change that purpose, I'm open to it. But the purpose of this grant scheme is therefore clearly stated in the State budget, and it is also stated in the State budget that we are going to tighten up the conditions to ensure better achievement of the target. Then dragging it in as an element that we should prevent anyone from participating in the public vocabulary on legal policy and on important societal issues, I just think it is going to be completely wrong. It's just that then you have to take the resources you spend on it, from other areas than this particular grant scheme. Then I'm open to assessing whether the grant scheme framework is within or outside what is the real purpose. If there's anything else the Storting wants, I'm open to discuss it. But we have to discuss the right premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1039	‘It is wise and proper for Statoil to implement the STEP project, which is about working smarter and more efficiently. However, the Statoil Business Center is not about working smarter or becoming more efficient; it is a strategic decision to move 1 700 Norwegian jobs to countries with lower labour costs. Does the Council agree that the relocation of these jobs is a strategic decision, and does he agree that this is contrary to the intentions of our ownership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1046	As a representative of one of our most important oil companies, or the most important oil company, the representative Tvidt Solberg is well-known as the oil industry is a cyclical industry. The deterioration we have seen in the oil price from 2014 to 2016 — a relatively large drop in a relatively short period of time — makes the situation in industry very demanding. This has resulted in a significant level of investment and activity globally, but also in Norway. The response from both the oil sector, the oil industry as such and Statoil, which is an important player on Norwegian soil, has necessarily been to reduce both investment and operating costs, which is absolutely essential for the industry to deliver. After all, it should be equipped to create large values based on the energy resources on Norwegian soil, even in a period of lower oil prices than we expect up to 2014. The large, comprehensive grips that are now being taken mean that efficiency and thus profitability are rising – costs are falling and profitability is rising. I am pleased that the representative Tvedt Solberg expresses support for Statoil's important STEP programme. This is part of a larger effort to reduce costs in Statoil. Included in this is an assessment of whether to establish a delivery centre for commercial services outside Norway, and it is important to say that this has not yet been concluded by the company. It's a work that's being investigated for the time being. Then it is the Board of Directors of Statoil and the company's administrative management who are responsible for ensuring that the measures implemented reduce costs, while maintaining the necessary competence in the company, of course also to run the activity on Norwegian pedestal in the future. Is it absolutely necessary that Statoil take these measures? I trust that Statoil will implement these measures in a way that will position the company for growth and profitability in the future. The representative then points out that there are 1 700 jobs to be moved abroad. Statoil has informed me that the numbers you estimate are completely different. There are a total of 400–500 jobs, half of which have been assessed as moving from Norway, while half have been assessed as moving from other Statoil sites around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1062	I thank you for your answer. I can confirm that I know the situation – the serious situation – at home very well, but still note in this answer that the government is passive in this particular question. I don't think the answer reflects the seriousness that is. Statoil is now challenging what a head office should contain, and I believe that the Council of State should be more involved in a discussion about this. In answer to my written question, the Council of State wrote that Statoil should be an engine for technological and economic development, and it is understandable to me that, at a time of the highest unemployment rate of 23 years, the move of jobs to low-cost countries should call for greater attention from the government. And this is where I want to ask the Council of State to elaborate, precisely because the decision is not taken: does this government not believe that competence jobs in Norway are important, and should the head office be just a mailbox and a boardroom, or is the government concerned with the content beyond this, so to give this necessary competence a content?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1071	I am pleased that until now there has been broad political agreement – mainly – on everything about state ownership. It also appeared when the Storting last year dealt with the ownership message, which included. The ownership of Statoil is thoroughly – I would say – mentioned. This can be seen, inter alia, from the point of view of: that the purpose of State ownership in Statoil ASA is to maintain a knowledge-based and high-tech industrial group with head office functions in Norway, but also to operate the company on a commercial basis and with a view to providing competitive returns on behalf of all of us. I cannot see that any creation of a delivery centre for commercial support functions would break the intentions of the state ownership in Statoil, as described in the ownership notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1078	It is precisely when the decision has not been taken, that the dialogue of the Council of State with the company is important. It is not just in the opposition we are concerned about; the trade unions have expressed their concern, the rapporteur in Stavanger has been very concerned, precisely because of the weakening of skills jobs in the region. So that's what I'd like to challenge the Council of State even more clearly to elaborate: isn't he also concerned that a weaker Statoil, the head office functions in Norway, is diluting these skills jobs that are so important in the transformation of which the government is concerned? These are important areas such as human resources management, IT, financial control and procurement — industries and industries which in themselves are important to maintain in Norway, a competence that we need to continue to develop. So my question is: is not the Council of State, like the rapporteur in Stavanger and several others, concerned about the developments we are seeing, and is it taking it into account in the dialogue with Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1087	First of all, I am concerned that we need to support the industry in an important job in order to increase the profitability and activity of the Norwegian base. It's a fact that this can get tough in Norway, but one of the reasons why there's less stress on Norwegian soil than on many other bases in the world is precisely the broad political consensus on the main lines of Norwegian petroleum policy, the fact that companies know that we have predictable, good frameworks to work within. Of course, the Workers' Party has an important part of the credit, since they are behind the main lines of Norwegian petroleum policy. At the same time, I would like to say that Statoil has 21,400 employees today. 18 800 of them are employed in Norway, and a large proportion of them in and around Stavanger. They have created great values for the Kingdom of Norway — starting from Stavanger — and so it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1098	This goes on the same theme, but there is another question: ‘By political decisions, Statoil has been given responsibility for 80 pst. of the production on Norwegian pedestal. The organisation of their activities, in particular acquisitions, by Statoil has a major impact on the size of their activities in Norway. Statoil is now planning to move acquisitions, IT, finance and HR to low-cost countries through the Statoil Business Center project. Does the Council of State consider this to be irrelevant to the company’s head office functions in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1105	This is a question that is very similar to the previous question. But let me just repeat briefly what I said instead. The oil industry is a cyclical industry and has been so for all the almost 50 years we've been in Norway, but this is a demanding cycle, and it's going to bring challenges to our industry in the future. Therefore, it is important that we support the important work done by Stortinget and the government to reduce costs and thus provide the basis for continued profitable and high activity on Norwegian soil in the future. Statoil's activity on the Norwegian base has generated enormous values for all of us. It has been managed by Stavanger since the company was set up. That the geographical centre of gravity of both Norwegian oil activity and Statoil will remain in Stavanger in the future, I believe, and that of course the government is working on the basis. Statoil’s management systems are based on the fact that all significant decisions are taken by the group management of the company or within the individual business area that has been mandated by the group management to do so. These core functions are performed through the activities of the group management and no such decision-making competence is planned to be transferred to any delivery centre abroad, which is primarily to provide commercial support functions for Statoil’s activities in Norway and in other parts of the world where Statoil is represented. But it is that of more than 20,000 employees, there is a place between 18 000 and 19 000 of Statoil's employees in Norway. A significant proportion of those working on land work in or immediately around Stavanger and in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1114	There is also a significant proportion of those who work in Statoil, and who work in the functions that this is about, who work in Hordaland – just so the Council of State is aware of it. In the grounds for ownership in Statoil, as formulated in St.prp. No 36 for 2000-2001, in the case of sub-privatisation, it states: ‘The Government assumes that Statoil remains a Norwegian-based company. Headquarters and their principal management, decision-making authority and strategic functions shall be located in Norway.’;» Statoil's dominant role in the Norwegian oil industry means that the company's decisions and choices will have consequences and significance far beyond the company's own framework. This is precisely why it is important that the company is Norwegian-based and has its head office and associated functions in Norway. When important functions are moved to low-cost countries, Norwegian suppliers lose contact with the company and it is in the cards that the Norwegian share of Statoil’s purchases is weakened. The positive cost-cutting gain is probably offset by the loss of jobs. What weight does the Council attach to this fact when he has his own dialogue with Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1128	The basis for all these – more than 20,000 jobs is that we can produce oil and gas economically. In a situation where we are now facing an oil market situation that is completely different from what we expected until 2014, the basis for any profitable job is that we are able to maintain profitability. Then costs have to be reduced. I have already said that if this was to be decided in Statoil, it is not planned to transfer the decision-making powers naturally attached to the head office, to such a possible delivery centre. Henriksen also points to the organisation of acquisitions. This type of acquisition decisions, which affect ring-effects in Norway and the Norwegian supplier industry, will continue to be taken by the group management, which will remain mainly in Stavanger, but also in Oslo and London.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1137	It is probably true that the big decisions are taken, but all the small decisions, which are about the contact between suppliers and the company, are important here. And the role of the new company as a buyer and sponsor of the Norwegian supplier industry was a central theme of the StatoilHydro merger in 2007. It's the following in St.prp. No 60 for 2006-2007: ‘The merged company will have a significant influence on the Norwegian-based supplier industry – especially in the operational phase. It is expected that the company will be aware of the responsibilities arising from this position.» Outside the scope of the proposal, it says: ‘It will be important to assess the situation of small and medium-sized suppliers in particular.’ It's just these I'll be worried about when you outsource purchasing functions to low-cost countries. The Committee has also underlined the importance of authorities monitoring the development of the supplier industry and the relationship between the merged company and the supplier industry in the time to come. Does the Council not agree that this gives him a good basis for a serious talk with Statoil about the relocation of these jobs and functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1156	I can assure both the previous one and the representative Henriksen that the Ministry of Oil and Energy also has good and close dialogue with Statoil on a wide range of questions. But also for the supplier industry, the contracts to be competed for are subject to joint control by the supplier industry and operators of the costs of making it profitable to extract the energy resources on a Norwegian base. The representative Henriksen talks as if the decision were taken. It's not. However, a significant proportion of these jobs, which are currently largely located outside Norway, and have been for a long time, are purely commercial jobs which are now assessed to be grouped in one place in Europe. The purchasing function has also been assessed, but no decisions have been made about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1169	‘In the Question Time of 17 February, the Minister of Knowledge said that he did not choose to give priority to a comprehensive follow-up evaluation of the grant scheme to 600 teaching positions in high school, and that at the time when the government took over, the funds were already allocated to specific schools. The Council of State further stated that it would not be possible to carry out an impact study in a strict sense. The follow-up evaluation was sent for tenders in the autumn of 2013, but was then withdrawn by the Council of State. What new elements made it impossible to carry out the evaluation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1176	At the time the government took over, the system of increasing teacher density at the youth level was established and the funds were allocated to the schools covered by the scheme. It was on this basis that I assessed the need for and any arrangements for an follow-up evaluation. I made a comparison of what an accompanying evaluation could provide of information on the results of the grant scheme, up to what will be available from publicly available information on developments in schools through the established statistical systems. In this context, there are in particular three topics of interest, on which the Directorate-General for Education provides an annual summary. The first is the annual information on teacher density in the Primary School Information System (GSI), which is used to examine whether schools meet the requirements of the grant scheme and increase teacher density in line with the allocation. Secondly, GSI also provides information on the number of pupils receiving special education and it will be possible to identify any decrease in the proportion of pupils receiving special education at the schools covered by the grant scheme. In addition, at the end of primary school, pupils can be monitored for their performance in the form of primary school credits. In assessing whether a follow-up evaluation was to be carried out, I concluded that the annual information obtained through the ordinary statistical system was sufficient. The store was then informed about this and was presented with that information in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015, where it reads: ‘The order is not followed, but the ministry follows the arrangements between others through the GSI and specific reporting by the municipalities.’ There were no comments on that. However, I now see that GSI and reporting from municipalities will not provide sufficient information to assess the significance of the grant scheme. I have therefore initiated an evaluation of the scheme in order to assess the impact of increasing teacher density on pupils’ learning outcomes and, if possible, the impact on the educational environment of schools. I will be briefing the Storting on this in the context of the revised budget 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1192	Thank you to the Minister of Knowledge for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge now changes his mind and sees that it may be important to evaluate these 600 teaching positions that the high school has benefited from in these years. Of the numbers that we see now, we can draw out a few positive effects: that we use something less for special education, and that the primary school credits, among other things, go up. It would have been very interesting to see if this is actually going to stay that way, and whether it's because you've been given more teaching positions. I would like to say that I think it is great that it will be an evaluation, and I hope that this scheme can be assessed further in the state budget beyond the next period. But I wonder how the Council of State thinks this evaluation has been carried out – should it be published, as was the previous evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1201	Firstly, since the red-green government decided that these should be temporary posts, it has now been announced to the Education Directorate that these posts will cease as part of this pilot scheme. But then it will be, of course, that any decision about what is going to happen to this money will come into the state budget. But as I read the comments – or the review also from previous governments – it does not seem to me that there has ever been talk of these positions continuing in exactly the same way. The aim has been to provide more jobs and then to draw some experience from them. With regard to the evaluation we are now launching, it is precisely to check whether the effects, as the representative called it, are real. That's what we want to figure out, and it has to be done by someone other than the ministry; it has to be done in cooperation with external research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1208	It was good to hear that there is someone other than a sail to evaluate whether it has an effect or not. Then I agree with the Council of State that the previous government also failed to assume that these were fixed posts that would continue in the form they now have, beyond the period. The point of selecting exactly these schools was that there were schools that had lower primary school credits and perhaps also spent more money on special education, so this with temporary jobs we've been aware of all along. But we already see, in these little feedback reports that have been, that it may have had a positive effect, and then it's incredibly important to be able to see if this will actually have an effect in the future. Then I don't really have any more questions to ask the Council of State, but I think it was unfortunate that it was done as it was done, and I also think it was a little strange that none of us discovered that there was one small sentence in the budget about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1215	State Council Røe Isaksen gets to answer anyway if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1218	Thank you for that. It was not hidden in the budget – just so it was said. It was clear and clear in an entire section, although this is exactly what is being referred to at the end of the section. But that's it. The important point here is that I agree that there are good arguments for not just basing on the numbers we get through the GSI. We're getting annual reporting. We're tracking that the money is being used correctly, and we're also following the numbers that we have available for the schools in question. But I agree that we need an assessment of the effects to see if there are real effects or not, and it has to be done through a research project. We're going to order something that makes us get what the research community calls the highest possible level of evidence, i.e. some results that are as robust as possible, to use a word that you'd rather not use.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1230	«In recent years, the municipality of Trom has been working on alternative teaching solutions to provide students with the broadest possible range of courses, even if the numbers of students are falling. In this work distance learning has been used’ — in Russian law and Sami — ‘in addition to working on time- and space-independent forms of education’. At NRK Sápmi on 10 February, we could read that the county councillor in Troms has supported a family who has complained about the regime of distance education in Sami to the county. Nordland and Finnmark County Municipality, which is responsible for the Sámi offers in Troms, have not expressed themselves negatively about distance teaching as a form of education, and the results of the departure lives in Troms... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1237	Sorry, but the representative is only allowed to read out what she sent in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1240	I'm sorry, President. I had 1 minute, so I've misunderstood, then. Can I just read the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1245	The representative has two additional questions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1248	Yeah, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1253	But in the first round, the representative only has to read what is here, and then the representative can finish reading the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1256	Yes. ‘Does the Council of State believe that the strategies of the County of Troms on alternative forms of education can be considered to be within the training requirements as long as professional and technical solutions are taken into account?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1261	I am not familiar with the teaching system in Trom County, and I cannot therefore assess whether the requirements of the law and regulations have been complied with. It is the County that is to supervise the school owner, and that is what is appropriate if the county is uncertain about it. In general, I can say that the school owner should provide training according to the curriculum. In addition, the legislation does not provide methodological guidance. The school owner and the individual teacher have a lot of room for action in the planning and implementation of education, and so should I. I believe it must be part of the professional competence of teachers to assess how different teaching materials and methods can best contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the curriculum. I am generally positive that teachers want to apply new teaching methods and new technologies, and have confidence that school owners and teachers manage the space for action in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1268	The County of Troms states to the NRK that he has reminded the counties that it is only in cases where it can be demonstrated that it has been tried to find a co-teacher that the system of distance learning can be used instead. I called the County to get a more detailed comment on this, and the County Council in Troms answered, as I perceived, that this rule was not specific to the Sami in that sense, but applies to all teaching. The form of instruction to be used is physical instruction with a teacher. He stressed that what is specific to Sami is that the students have a right to education in Sami, and this right through the Sami regulation is a security for the right to language training, not a protection against distance learning. Will the Council of State ensure that this legislation is clarified, so that it becomes clear to the county councils, the schools and the owners and to the county councillors what alternative forms of teaching are allowed to be offered to their students?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1273	The general answer is that there is no prohibition on using, for example: distance learning as part of the teaching process, but it shall be done within the framework of the other legislation. So that's how, as I said in my first answer, I don't know the details of the teaching system used in Troms, and it's the county that's our agency to decide that. So I can say in general that if there are situations that illustrate that the legislation is unclear, we have to look at it, of course, but it is a general approach and not necessarily related to this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1279	What I tried to say in my question, which I did not say, was that the County Council in Troms has given consideration to a family in Tromsø who had complained about the system of distance learning in Sami to the County after claims that the teaching was not good enough. Nordland and Finnmark counties responsible for the Sámi offers in Troms have not spoken negatively about distance learning as a form of education. The results of the departure students in Troms after many years of distance learning are at or better than the results of those who have received training with teachers physically present. The question is whether the State Council can confirm that the use of alternative forms of teaching by the municipalities of Trom is also in Sami within the provisions of the Training Act, as long as professional requirements and technical solutions are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1284	As I've tried to say – and it's not to sneak away from the question, but it's just to be a little tidy – it's like I, as the Council of State and the Department, am not the body to make those kind of assessments of practices and activities in the counties. That's what the County does. Therefore, I would say that the general point is that there is freedom of method in Norwegian school. This also means that distance learning can be used, but it has to be done within the framework of the legislation. Then it is the County that is our authority to assess whether or not it is in the individual case within the framework of the legislation. Then I have no information that enables me to assess the County Decision in any way, and that is, it is not possible for me to comment on this any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1293	‘The Ministry of Education drew up its tender for an evaluation of the experiment with increasing teacher density in secondary school on 9 December 2013. Nevertheless, the Council of State stated this to the Evening Post on 23 September 2014: «When it comes to assessing a national norm, which the previous government was not in favour of, I think we should first evaluate the teacher's promise in high school with 600 additional posts, which we have passed on.» At that time, the Council of State had not informed the Storting that the evaluation had stopped. Did the Council of State know that the follow-up evaluation had stopped when he made the statement, and why did he then choose to give the opposite idea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1300	At the time the government took over, the system of increasing teacher density at the youth level was established and the funds were allocated to the schools covered by the scheme. The fact that the funds were already distributed, which meant that an impact study in a strict sense was not possible, was the basis for my decision. I knew that the follow-up evaluation had stopped in December 2013, even when I was interviewed by the Evening Post. The cancellation was submitted shortly after, in Prop. 1 S for 2014-2015, where it reads: ‘The order is not followed, but the ministry follows the arrangements between others through the GSI and specific reporting by the municipalities.’ Through the information system of primary schools, the Department of Education Directorate receives annual information on the development of teacher density, primary school credits and the proportion of pupils with special education in the schools covered by the scheme. That's what I referred to in the evening post. I see that the very concept of 'evaluation' was not a good choice in this context. It was not my intention to give the impression that the follow-up evaluation had not been stopped, but that we would assess the action in the light of the information contained in the GSI, where we receive annual reports from the Education Directorate. Then I have afterwards, among other things. in response to the representative Lysbakken, said that I now see that the information we have available is not good enough to assess the importance of the grant scheme in the best possible way. I have therefore initiated an evaluation of the scheme, with the aim of assessing the impact of increasing teacher density on pupils' learning outcomes, and, if possible, the impact on the educational environment of schools. I will come back to Stortinget with a detailed briefing on this in RNB 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1314	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative he has taken now. Then it must well also be allowed to say that the whole of this case leaves a little strange impression. That it would take two years to get where we are now, that the Council of State believes there is a need for more information about this, and that both the quoted quote in the newspaper and the round we had in the Storting for a short time back, where the Council of State had to correct itself, give the impression that this has been little control and a little thoughtful attitude to a very large and expensive trial project. Now there will be as much knowledge as possible at the end of this experiment. But I want to challenge the Council of State on what he himself will actually do now to obtain as much information as possible directly. I recently visited one of the schools that have now had the pleasure of having these additional teaching positions, and my question is whether the Council of State has also intended to directly visit the teachers and students who have participated in the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1323	Let me do the questions in order. I've already been to at least one of these schools. My father works at one of them, the Kjöln secondary school in Porsgrund. So I think it's important to say in that context, as also the representative Tingelstad Wøien confirmed, that as far as I can see from the report from the previous government about this, the idea was never that the scheme should continue in exactly the same way in exactly the same schools – that it was the intention. The aim was to obtain information that would allow you to scale up and have greater appropriations for increasing teacher density in general. With regard to this statement in the Evening Post and the impression that it is strange, it would be strange to try to give a wrong impression when the Stortinget is presented in October 2014, i.e. one month later. Then I've seen that no one at that time reacted to it. But I agree that we need better information, and that's why we're now starting an evaluation, which we're going to put together with independent research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1332	Let me finally ask: what will be a natural continuation of this? It is true that the then government parties probably had slightly different views about both the need for increased teacher's density and how such a system could possibly be continued, but there is no doubt that even the parties that were most concerned with this have always had an open attitude about how those positions should be distributed. It is not given whether the 600 posts should be continued, that they should be in exactly the schools that have them today. That's what I think is one of the things that should tell us about the information that's now coming up. But what I'm very concerned about is that it's not now going to be put in the lead that makes it natural for the government to take this money and spend it on something else. That's how the letter to the schools can be read. Therefore, I would like to have a confirmation that it is not that it is not appropriate for the government to continue these 600 posts in some form.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1339	That's the answer in the State budget. And there it is, as for all other bets, that the government is free every year to assess the bets and figure out what's most important. Now it is also worth mentioning that although this issue is about the 600 positions in high school, it has been allocated with this large number, not least with the Christian People's Party, and also the Left – it is well up to 800 million. Total NOK – for at least 1000 teaching positions. But we've chosen to focus on early schooling, 1–4. steps. There are funds that are being distributed, which are going to benefit the schools, and which are also not temporary. These are fixed, permanent funds that the municipalities get. Then I am absolutely sure that when we get an even better decision base, the discussion between SV and the government will continue on what is the best use of the money we are going to spend in school. But maybe we can get even better decision-making bases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1344	Question 12, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1351	"It has a broad political consensus about a differentiated fleet in Norway. On 12 January, the Council of State sent instructions on ‘home length and maximum length and proportionality between the vessel’s quota base and length’. One can now collect vessel allowances from 11 to 15 metres on boats up to 55 to 60 metres, where the limit is only on capacity of less than 500 m3. Norway Fishlayer has requested an adjustment to the instruction between other absolute bulkheads at 21 metres for base length 11-14,9 metres. Will the Council of State comply with the requirement and ensure that we still have a varied fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1361	On 12 January of this year, Minister for Fisheries Per Sandberg issued an instruction on how to deal with applications for the replacement of larger vessels in the coastal fishing fleet. This led to some debate, and therefore it is probably right that I now spend some time explaining the background to the instructions. The situation before 12 January was that applications were decided on the basis of a discretionary assessment by the fisheries management. For example, an application for the replacement of a vessel of 13 metres to a vessel of 21 metres could be rejected, while another application with almost the same quota base could be granted. So it's not the new instruction that opens up for the replacement of larger vessels. This has also been previously available. The Minister for Fisheries has decided that the discretionary assessment should be replaced by unambiguous guidelines. This ensures predictability and non-discrimination for all coastal fishermen and increases the predictability of the industry as a whole. To achieve this, different objectives have been balanced. The Minister for Fisheries wants a differentiated fleet, but also that the individual trader himself should choose the vessel as much as possible. It is also important to stress that the instructions do not affect the number of allowances to be collected on one vessel. This is governed by the rules on the allocation of structural allowances, which means that one can only structure within the quota ceiling of the group to which they belong. This is controlled by the permit length for the allocation of allowances, not the size of the vessel. It's been like that, and it's still like that. The representative Heggø refers to the fact that, after the instruction was given on 12 January, the Fiskarlag has asked for some adjustments and asks whether the Minister for Fisheries will comply. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has received many feedback on the instructions since its adoption. Both the Fisheries Team and the Coastal Fisheries Team have asked the Ministry to reconsider it, but they have a very different approach to the recommendations on how to design future practices. The Minister for Fisheries will, of course, make a new assessment when asked by fishermen’s organisations. This is a work which the Ministry of Food and Fisheries will give high priority to, but it is also important that the evaluation is thorough. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has not completed this assessment, and I therefore cannot respond, at that time, to whether the Minister of Fisheries will change the instructions or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1372	It had to be interpreted as if the minister did not see the danger in that this intermediate could actually disappear, based on the answer that was well read. But it's positive that a person should have a new assessment. The rule lowers a selection – they bring down a lot of selections, but they have lowered the Eiden selection – which should go through it with structure. The Eiden selection has hardly looked around the meeting table before any new changes occur, such as this change in the instruction. Why pursue such a piece-by-part policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1379	It is absolutely right that the Minister of Fisheries and the Government are concerned about having a differentiated fleet. At the same time, the government is also committed to facilitating clear, predictable and simple guidelines that reduce the uncertainty resulting from widespread use of judgement. It is also important for the government to have individual shipowners make more decisions about how he wants to create the most values based on his business, and that is part of what underlies the work done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1384	In fact, the council wasn't once in my question, which went to the Eiden selection, which was put down to look at structure. There is no one who disagrees that an instruction, as referred to by the Council of State, comes at first that gives non-discrimination. It is the contents of the instructions and how it is designed there are some objections to. So my question is, why does such a piece-by-part policy have? So I'll read something that's in the Fisherman's magazine. It says that the leader of the Eides has ‘invited to discuss whether business interests and practitioners other than those of the day should be allowed into a maritime food industry which plans to play an increasingly important role in the future’;» – i.e. business interests and practitioners other than those of the day. Then my question is, are there any changes in the law of participants that one here sees for itself? And does the Minister possibly think that it is within the mandate of the Eidesen Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1396	Now we're relatively far away from what we started with in today's question, so I don't think it's right for me on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries to sign out either one or the other in that direction. However, I said in my initial answer, given that the representative was not satisfied with the previous answer, that this instruction that was adopted now in January, and has been pointed out by the Fiskerlag – which the representative points to in a question early in February, that we want to adjust something – does not affect how many allowances you can collect on one ship. This is governed by other rules – the rules on the structural quota system. It means – as I also said in my initial answer – that you can only structure within the quota ceiling of the group you belong to. Then I think the Fisheries Minister and the representative Heggø will get back to the Eidesen Committee and the participant law on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1409	‘UDI/UNE has refused a residence permit for an American teacher on the grounds that she has two part-time employers and not one such legislation requires. In December 2015, I asked the Minister of Labour a written question on this matter, and the answer was that the matter should be followed carefully, and that the legislation could be seen as unreasonable. Will the Council of State follow up this matter and take the necessary legislative changes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1416	Thank you for the question. The representative refers to a case involving an American citizen who has received a refusal to apply for a residence permit, where work for two employers was one of the grounds for refusal. I cannot go into individual matters and take note of the decision of the foreign student, but I can make some general comments on the question from the representative. Highly qualified migrant workers add important competences to the Norwegian society and help meet the demand for labour where employers need special skills. The government is committed to facilitating employers to collect highly skilled labour from third countries, while also balancing the importance of controlled immigration. In order to be granted a residence permit as a worker from outside the EEA territory, workers must be covered by a quota, they must be skilled, pay and working conditions must be in accordance with the Norwegian standard, and there must be relevance between qualifications and the work offered. There is also a requirement that, as a general rule, the job offer applies to full-time work for one employer. This shall ensure orderly working conditions and an adequate income base. The Foreign Affairs Act opens up the possibility of exempting full-time work and one employer from a specific assessment. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs states that in practice they derogate from the requirement of one employer in whom the applicant has special competence or where conditions relating to the pursuit of the profession indicate that an exemption should be granted. The Directorate also has the practice of accepting full-time work down to 80 p.m. position. This case has made visible a problem related to the condition of one employer I believe it may be a basis for looking into. In order to ensure that we have legislation that is sufficiently flexible and adaptable to today's labour market, I have therefore sent a letter on 10 February to the Foreign Affairs Directorate asking for their assessment of the need for changes in the foreign legislation in this area. In view of, inter alia: I will consider any changes to the legislation from the directorate. If changes are to be made, they will need to apply to all workers from non-EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1433	It was to the extent that a well-founded response and an estimate of what are the assumptions, which, to the extent that no one disagrees with that, were there. It is more a question of how to interpret the legislation, and, as the Council of State itself was involved, whether it is now – in a way – in line with the working life we see, where it is becoming more and more common to have more than one employer, but nevertheless fulfilling the requirements of living, etc. I record that there is a slightly cautious input to this. I also record that the response from the Government's predecessors was perhaps somewhat clearer. And not least, the opinion of representatives of the government parties has been very clear – where they have called this legislation idiotic. I don't want to be close to doing that. But I think it's okay that we get a look at it. Now I register that a letter has been sent, but could the Council say something more about the time perspective, about when you might expect a proposal for any changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1440	The legislation on labour immigration has now been debated several times in the United Kingdom, not least in the context of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Single European Act on labour immigration, etc. There are slightly different entrances into the Storting and how liberal that legislation should be. However, I believe that at least there is agreement that the legislation on labour immigration from third countries, i.e. outside the EEA territory, should be the same for all. And there are some criteria that are set. There shall be requirements for both the relevant competence and pay and working conditions, a quota, etc. So this case has raised questions about whether the legislation relating to the number of employers is flexible enough, whether it also captures – what to say – common sense or not. That's what I've asked the UDI to assess now, whether that exception is too narrow, or whether it should actually be liberalised. And if the directorate now gives feedback that it is too clever, I will of course also consider amending the legislation in line with what the majority in this Chamber probably also wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1447	I'm not going to cross out this day, and now it's still going to be between us here, but I'm going to ask again, what time perspective does the Council of State see? When the answer comes from the UDI, does the Council of State think this is something we can see any change in this six-month period, in the next six months, or is this completely suspended? It is important to get an answer when the Council of State sees that it is possible to get an answer on how to change these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1452	Now it depends on what kind of feedback UDI comes with. There is already an exception to this one factor that the representative addresses. There are already opportunities to make exceptions, and there are exceptions. So the question is whether it's flexible enough, or whether you're going to change it. Obviously, if the director thinks it's too strict, there's nothing wrong with changing this pretty quickly. It remains to be seen whether the directorate thinks it's good enough, or whether to make changes. But it should not be on me if there is a need to make this more flexible than it is today. Then, of course, the change will also come quickly. But it remains to be seen whether we have a need or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1457	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-02.ana.ud1696e1470	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
