ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e80	The former temporarily exempted alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Eva Vinje Aurdal, is taking the seat again. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Eigil Knutsen, is now taking the seat. Two permit applications are available: by Mr Rasmus Hansson, on Thursday, 17 March from the representative of Knut Arild Hareide, on parental leave from 29 March to 17 June; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, there is an application for a waiver from the Stortinge from 29 March to 31 March under the permission of Knut Arild Hareides, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For the county of Hordaland: Filip Back 29-31. March and Astrid Aarhus Byrknes 5 April until 17 June. For Oslo: Une Aina Bastholm March 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e133	Une Aina Bastholm is present and will take the seat. The representative, Michael Tetzschner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e138	On behalf of the representatives of Frank Bakke-Jensen, Gunnar Gundersen, Øyvind Halleraker, Siri A. Meling, Anders B. Werp and myself, I am pleased to make proposals on the extended liability of companies for corruption offences, an addendum to the penal code § 389.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e143	The representative, Helga Pedersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e146	On behalf of the representatives of Stein Erik Lauvås, Marianne Aasen, Ruth Grung and myself, I propose a reform of competence for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e151	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e154	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal, Dag Sele and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the reorganization of ferry services through the establishment of a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e159	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e163	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Jenny Klinge and myself on equivalent access to laboratory services after the EU Postal Directive has been introduced and Saturday post has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e168	The representative of Pál Farstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e171	On behalf of Abid Q. Raja, Iselin Nybø, Terje Breivik, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I am delighted to promote a draft representative on zero emission targets for all ship types by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e176	The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e179	On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen Norwegian sign language and sign language in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e184	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e200	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e207	Today's attitude is a result of the treatment of Document 8:119 S by the representative Rasmus Hansson to reduce our material consumption. I want to praise the Green Party for taking up this proposal and giving us an opportunity to reflect on the environmental impact of our consumption. In the vote, there are different majority and minorities, and I guess the different parties will explain their views on the matter. Earlier this week Schibsted launched The Second Hand Effect, where the Swedish Environmental Institute has calculated the environmental impact of the sales of used goods from five of Schibsted’s websites. There was a study that gave interesting reflections and results, and that intervenes directly in some of the suggestions in this setting, including: I, to produce a statistics on the environmental impact of our consumption. The study carried out by Schibsted shows, inter alia: the sale of second-hand goods at Finn.no results in a reduced CO2 effect of 0,5 million tonnes of CO2. It corresponds to emissions from all traffic in Oslo for 10 months. It shows that it can be argued that the study also has some weaknesses, that used sales could save the climate for large emissions, and that re-use actually works. An ever-increasing purchase party cannot be an overall measure. In many areas, reuse, repair and greater accuracy will also be an important part of environmental policy. That is why the issue we are now dealing with is an important contribution to raising awareness of the fact that production and material consumption are also seizing resources and contributing to large environmental emissions. The Committee acknowledges this and agrees that increasing consumption contributes to the emission of pollutants, the eradication of plant and animal species and greenhouse gas emissions. The Committee also agrees that it is an objective to facilitate sustainable development and that it must be done through long-term resource management, using resources in line with nature’s resilience. Since 1990 private consumption in Norway has more than doubled in real terms. Many people say that there are many positive aspects to increasing consumption, but that also gives cause for reflection. It is not that all economic growth puts greater pressure on the environment, but helping to reduce consumption growth is a vital part of the debate on how to achieve more sustainable development. The proposal has allowed us to address the issue of the growth of the sharing economy, both in Norway and internationally. There are many positive aspects of the sharing economy that will provide opportunities for better use of our resources. In combination with new technologies, sales of second-hand goods, interconnections and private accommodation can be examples of how free capacity in society can be better exploited. It may entail lower costs for individuals, but may also lead to lower resource costs. The Committee then recognises that we should not be blind to the fact that the sharing economy can also have negative aspects in fiscal matters and in the rights of workers. There is no objective of establishing a sharing economy that develops as a black economy on the other side of society. I think it is important to stress that seas, if we are facing a major shift to reduce climate emissions, are also a positive development in many areas. Technology is constantly evolving and, together with clearer environmental requirements, results in lower emissions. The use of heavy metals and environmental contaminants has been greatly reduced, as has the presence of local air and water pollution problems. But we have to recognise that it can do much more, and this proposal is one of several areas where there is the potential for us as consumers to contribute to less environmental pressures and reduce our own consumption of resources. An important part of the proposal is about a stronger right to return claims and the fact that it is easier and cheaper to repair a product instead of buying a new one. A large part of the proposal is also about improving consumer rights and information because well-informed and conscious consumers have great power. Providing better rights and also better information to consumers is an important part of the work ahead. The setting also addresses the question of purchasing pressure, which can be seen a little in connection with body pressure, and it is a question that is important not least related to commercial advertising. I would like to be allowed to comment on the proposals No. 2–7, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e239	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e242	The Labour Party and I have a fundamental belief that new technology will be the most important thing in solving the climate crisis – new ways of doing things that ensure that the world can withstand both population growth and global prosperity, while emissions are falling. Nevertheless, like the rapporteur, I would like to commend the Greens' Environment Party for promoting this proposal, also to discuss how growth and consumption affect the climate, and not least what growth does with fair global distribution. For it confronts us with some ethical and moral dilemmas. If all people on earth were to consume as much as we nordics, we would need three Earths. We don't, we just have one that we have to divide by as much as we can. It goes without saying that in a world where we want everyone to get to the same level of wealth as us, we have to use resources differently. Of course, it's a lot about technology, but it's also about other things. Since 1990 we have become twice as rich, but have we become twice as happy? I don't think so, and I'm not sure that the most important thing we'll need in the future is increased growth and higher material consumption. Traveling these debates is not about going back to the past, as some say. No, it's about the future – what values we think should govern in the future. We have a government that I believe prioritizes errors, which chooses tax cuts ahead of well-being. It is also an environmental issue, because, as Marit Arnstad said, all growth does not have the same impact on the environment. I think it'll be a bigger footprint on the environment to give tax cuts, increase consumption, for the richest in Norway, instead of investing in school, health or culture. There are many reasons to oppose the government’s tax cuts – the environmental issue is also one of them. The same thing we saw in the debate on Sunday open shops. The government didn't realize that people wanted to have a day where things went a little bit calmer, where the pace wasn't the same. Fortunately, the voice of the people won, and we keep Sunday – until now at least – as a little different day of the week. The new word of the year will have to be ‘share economy’. I don't think we're in a debate without anyone ending up with a sharing economy as one of the most important points. I think we have to spend time discussing what it actually is for something, because it's used in a lot of different forms. But that we can use our cell phones or other technology to share more, that's basically a very good news, not least for the climate. From a consumer point of view, sharing goods is a very good idea. But sharing economy isn't something you're either for or against, it's there in different forms. From the Labour Party we are positive to a lot of it, but we are also very clear that this must not lead to social dumping or impaired rights for workers. A number of proposals are being promoted today. There are very many of them who have good intentions, which we are very much in agreement with, but which we have today decided not to stand behind, because we believe that they are too unexplained, and that some of them are better suited to the discussion about the state budget. One of the proposals that we have chosen to support is the proposal for halving food waste. In a world that's going to need all the food we have, we can't throw food to the same degree as what we're doing today. The sea of food waste must be the very symbol of the unfair distribution in the world. The French government has set in motion a targeted effort to halve food waste by 2025 – with strict regulation for the shops and the food industry. We believe the Norwegian Government should do the same. But now we have realized that that proposal today cannot be voted on because it has been promoted before the session. That is why I would like to inform you that the Labour Party is going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, that this is something to be assessed in the context of the Circular Economy Storing Message. From the Workers' Party's side, we want to say today that we have great ambitions about what that message should contain when it comes to throwing food. The most important debate on consumption and growth is in connection with the treatment of the state budget, where we make the annual priorities. And it was a very bad signal when one of the first things this government did was to remove the sustainability indicators in the state budget. It is about 30 years since Gro Harlem Brundtland launched the term «sustainable development». We're going to be able to have a growth and a development without destroying the possibilities of neither nature, the climate, those who come after us, nor those who live at the same time with us. It's a perspective that we have to include in all of our political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e265	The representative proposal we are dealing with today is an example of the fact that even the best intentions can lead the wrong way. I have great respect for the commitment of the representative Hansson and the Greens/Greens/EFA to work for a better environment and climate. However, this case illustrates with all clarity the difference between those of us who believe that the objective of environmental policy is to limit damage to the environment as a result of economic activity, and those who believe that limiting economic activity and growth is an objective in itself. The representative proposal also shows the difference between parties who believe that a free market, knowledge and technology will play an important role in solving the climate and environmental challenge, and parties who believe that state control, prohibition, lower prosperity and less freedom are necessary for – as the representative Hansson tends to say – to avoid boiling the globe. The right and government base their environmental and climate policies on conservative values such as the precautionary principle and the generation contract. The right will always be prepared to discuss new measures that reduce the environmental impact of the production and consumption of goods and services. On the other hand, it is not as the proposer assumes that economic activity and prosperity are always a problem in themselves. There is no linear link between consumption and environmental pressures, on the contrary, developments in recent decades have shown us that it is possible to decoupling economic growth and increased emissions and environmental damage. Last night, the IEA announced that for the second consecutive year, the CO2 emissions from the world energy sector remain unchanged, despite the growth of the global economy. Technological development and rational regulation can change the behaviour of citizens who contribute to reducing the environmental impact of our consumption of goods and services, without using coercion and prohibition that slows down the development of our wealth. The reason why I stress this is that we are in a time of increasing unemployment and major changes. More than ever, it is important that we be able to maintain employment and value creation that ensures the welfare state for the future as well. Let me spend some time on some of the concrete measures proposed in the proposal. The proposer wants annual statistics on the global footprint of Norwegian consumption. The right is concerned with a knowledge-based environmental and climate policy and therefore the government is also actively working to improve standards and estimates of such footprints both in the EU/EEA and in the OECD. However, it is not possible at present to produce data that is good enough for them to be used to design policies or instruments. At best, such calculations will act as guides or illustrations for raising awareness, but at worst they may be directly misleading and lead to countermeasures that are counterproductive. Norway has strong consumer protection with a long warranty period and strict environmental requirements for products. In fact, Norwegian rules and regulations are stricter than what is common in Europe in terms of rights and guarantees. The lifetime and quality of products are likely to be determined to a much greater extent by consumer requirements and expectations for manufacturers than by any political decision in the Stortinget. That being said, it's important that when the day comes that we want to get rid of a product, material recycling and recycling should be the way we do it. When the proposer wants to restrict and prohibit advertising for legal products, I believe it is wrong to do so. This is also a policy that reveals a complete absence of confidence in informed consumers making good choices and that politicians and bureaucrats do not always know best. In addition, it is a restriction of freedom of expression and an ideological thought that testifies to the desire to take Norway back to a time I think most of us are happy to have left – with state regulation and governance of people and business. There are a lot of suggestions in the matter I have not now commented on. Many of them bear the mark of being less realistic and difficult to implement and, therefore, a clean marking of the position of the Greens. In any case, I would like to end my speech by thanking the author of the proposal for an important debate, and at the same time I would like to address the proposal by the Right, the Progress Party and the Left on measures to reduce food waste as it stands in the committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e294	The representative Tina Bru has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e297	There is little doubt that the government is basing its environmental and climate policies on the responsibility of the administrator and the precautionary principle. Of course, it is not a problem to share the intentions of the proposer to reduce environmental pressures in the production and consumption of goods and services, but we must not forget that the main challenges we face in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving a lower-carbon society are to decouple economic growth and increase greenhouse gas emissions. It is important that our environmental policy aims to prevent and reduce the environmental impacts of economic activity — and not to limit the scope of economic activity or private consumption itself. It is also important to note that the government and the cooperation parties have committed themselves to following up the work of the Green Tax Commission, which makes a number of recommendations on how the tax system can be used to distort consumption in a more environmentally friendly way. While Norway is currently producing high quality public statistics in terms of consumption, environment and greenhouse gases, it would not be appropriate to estimate environmental footprints until international, recognised methods and data are available for these types of calculations, and the level of precision would not be sufficient to design policies and legislation. As regards the extension of the warranty period, Norway has strong consumer protection, with a long warranty period and strict environmental requirements for the products. The introduction of a stricter regime will necessarily also result in higher prices of the goods. Finally, it can be stated that the government plans to present a national bioeconomy strategy, in cooperation with businesses, organisations and instrument operators, and there is little doubt that the bioeconomy can play a major role in exploiting our resources and our consumption in a much more optimal way than today. Of course, the Progress Party supports the proposal we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e312	I would also like to commend Rasmus Hansson and the Greens to promote this proposal for a representative. Many of the proposals we can fully endorse, and several of them are also previously promoted by the Christian People's Party, if not equivalent, so with the same content. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Arnstad, on his excellent work. Material consumption in Norway and in our part of the world must be put under a critical look. This has to be done in addition to improving products and increasing the environmental characteristics of products. We have no right to base a growth in consumption that most others can only dream of, either from a justice perspective or from an environmental perspective. Let me draw out an old chief, Professor Trygve Haavelmo. When he received the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1989, he was asked what he would have talked about if he had got 15 minutes with the world leaders. He said he would explain the dynamics of an exponential function, the formula for exponential growth. Other wise minds have visualized this by telling the story of a thorn where it grows a water lily. At first it has one leaf, but it doubles every day: day two, two leaves — day three, four leaves — day four, eight leaves, etc. After 30 days, the thorn is growing again. But when was it only half-grown again? Yes, on the 29th day. The lesson of this, which can also be transferred to ever-increasing consumption growth, is that the growth in consumption has not been a steady development, but an explosive development in our part of the world. It's not sustainable in the long run. Consumption growth often causes, if not always, an increased burden on the environment, and that is precisely why we need to have an ongoing debate on the global footprint of material consumption. That's also why we have to make it easier to trade used goods. Fortunately, we see a flowering of used shops in this country. We've gained a growing awareness of use and throwing. Manufacturers should also be required to be able to repair goods, as far as possible, and this should be stimulated by facilitating the framework conditions for repair activities. A five-year guarantee period for several product groups will have a positive effect on manufacturers’ adjustment. It's worth making something that lasts. We at Stortinget can do a good job, but here I would like to remind you that consumer power can also move mountains. Confident consumers who demand products that hold are at least equally important. The sharing economy, which is about to become a foothold, has become a positive trend. We need to look at the tax implications of this, and provide a positive stimulus to this trend. Advertising also plays a significant role, and we buy a good part we don't need – at least I do. Therefore, it is good environmental policy to take a closer look at the legislation on advertising. Repeat, for example: – together with the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party – our previous proposal that telephone sales should require active consent, not just have a reservation option. I grew up for a time, as probably more in this room, when the doctrine was ‘we don’t throw usable food’. That was of course a thing. It's absurd in a world where many people have to go to bed hungry, that in our part of the world we're throwing huge amounts of fully usable food. A goal of halving the food throw in 2030 is moderate and affordable. Once again, I am pleased with the reminder contained in this proposal, and that the treatment has resulted in several important issues being given a majority. The rapporteur has already addressed the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e331	As has already been pointed out, the world already consumes far greater resources than the life on earth can withstand over time, and we need to reduce the impact we have on the natural environment around us, dramatically in the years to come. The major challenges we face are that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – climate change is a fundamental threat to the way we live today. We need to reduce the collection of pollutants in nature. Biodiversity loss must be halted – the objective is to achieve this by 2020. And we have a world of increasing resource scarcity, so we have to use resources far more efficiently than what we've done before. That is why the Left is also pleased that this proposal has been presented, so that the Storting must also discuss how we should reduce the impact of our consumption on the environment. The left does not, however, agree with the proposals that lie in the matter, except for the one that we are co-sponsored to, which are working systematically to reduce food waste in Norway, and how this must be included in the waste notification. The reason why we don't go in front of the others, is not the purpose and purpose of them, but more that we mean the way they are designed, does not bring us closer to the goal we want. If we are to reduce the impact of the consumption we have, we need a completely different systematic approach to the problem. I will point out some of what we think must be done. One is to see the positive in a divisional economy. We still live more closely, and we live more in the big cities both in Norway and internationally. Closeness of living means that in the future we need to share more – by simple means through urban bicycle schemes and better public transport, and in the case of sports equipment. This applies to both the private sharing and that which NPISHs are behind, and we need to have systems for the commercial sharing economy that comes. I would also like to point out that public procurement is over 450 billion. kr a year, and we agreed with the budget for this year to have 30 pst. the environmental weight of public procurement. It is clear that over time, when implemented, it will be of great importance to reduce the environmental impact of public procurement. It has previously been mentioned that a report from the Green Tax Commission was submitted before Christmas. We are now working on the follow-up of the Green Tax Commission. It is absolutely essential that we actively use the tax system to reduce the environmental impact of consumption. Here we're still just at the beginning. Fortunately, it is in this area that economic incentives work. The government is also going to put forward a bio-economic strategy, and it is important that we use the biological resources we have to reduce fossil consumption. And perhaps the biggest issue facing us is the initiative of the EU - the EU's circular economy action plan. It is necessary to look at both product design, product processes – the whole life cycle of a product and the pressures it imposes on the environment – and the consumer information that needs to be developed for people. We need a total resource saving here. It is clear that our waste systems, how we use waste, how to reduce resources on the way and to have reuse are important, and we look forward to the notification of waste and circular economy that the Stortinget has previously ordered, with anticipation. It is essential that we keep the roof of a systematic effort to reduce environmental pressures. So I'll do one more thing, that's that we also have to use the positive tools. We have a boom scheme in Norway, which works well with relatively small resources. It's also important to reinforce this. It is important to keep in mind that we need to reduce the environmental impact of our consumption, and that requires a long-term and systematic effort to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e352	We have to stop using up our globe, because that's what we're doing today, and it sounds like several of the previous speakers have been here today. I want to draw an example to show how our consumption today is consuming up the globe. I'd recommend people go into Google Earth -- it's a great tool -- and zoom in on Nauru, and then zoom even more into Nauru. Zooming into the small Pacific island, which is the source of a very large portion of the phosphorus used, you can see how our consumption of phosphorus bit by bit has eaten up the whole small island state, which is now standing the rib again, without more resources. This is an example of how our phosphorus consumption, which is absolutely crucial for the agricultural industry, fertilizers and all the food production we have, gradually depletes place by place on the globe. Experts warn us that we can go against phosphorus deficiency, and that's just an example of how we use up the globe. What should we do? Instead, we should do everything we do, think circuit-based, so that we say to ourselves, and add as a governance instrument for politics, that it can't be used again, it's not good enough. If we produce and sell goods in Norway, in the EU, in Europe, in the world that cannot be used again once it is used, it is not good enough. Everything has to be aligned towards entering the circuit. This should be the standard on which we base, and I hope that the government – and I will listen to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment later – will base it on the principle of making a big message about the circular economy, at the request of the Committee. The biggest, acute problem for us right now, is that we're spending our fossil stockpiles, oil, coal and gas. Over the last year, we have crossed the magical limit of 400 ppm CO2 and it threatens our existence, as was said at the Paris climate conference before Christmas. The crucial thing is that we manage to reduce emissions now, and then it is quite scary that the majority in this Chamber still base the economic future of Norway on extracting even more oil. Today, the TFO came with the allocation of new blocks in mature areas. It came today, with even more blocks, some of them right at the entrance to the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, where a discharge would drive straight into the Westfjord. In my opinion, it is a scary development, and in addition, it is a decision that is completely disconnected from the Paris climate agreement. There is no assessment by the government of how this will work towards the 2-degree target, there is no – or even less – assessment of the world's space for this oil and gas that might be found there, towards the 1.5 degree point. All of this indicates that if we're going to reach the 1.5 degree point, we've already crossed the limit of how much it is we can get out, and we should release less and extract CO2 from the atmosphere in the years that come. As everyone here knows, it's a rather demanding affair. I am surprised that there is no majority to ask the government to demand that companies report on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Tina Bru had some reasoning around that consumers should be able to understand informed choices, and was against regulation. That's a very strange position. It's quite obvious that we need to regulate whether we're going to get to a circular economy. It is quite clear that charges are needed to prevent the use of non-recurring resources. Now even the government is discussing the Green Tax Commission. It's quite obvious that it has to be more expensive to contaminate if we're going to get to anything. And it's quite obvious that regulation is the only thing to do to prevent unnecessary oil spills. You can't say to an oil company that's found oil, that they should leave the oil, that you think they should have a moral commitment to it. Instead, you must not allocate the opportunity to find this oil to the company. We do not support the Environment Party's proposal that we should cut all material consumption in Norway – or how material consumption should be cut. We think it's unexplained. We promote our own proposal where we say that we believe that environmentally harmful consumption needs to be reduced in Norway. I take this into account the proposals that SV has made, those that we have promoted alone, and those that we have promoted together with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e376	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e379	The foundation of the economy is the natural resources, and the planet's resources are limited. Clearly, then, it is a central political task to prevent resources from being overexploited by a few at the expense of others. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and others who have spoken before me for our initiative on this proposal. Today, mankind is seizing large parts of the earth's surface to produce raw materials for our material consumption. The areas we've already used are, in addition, the most fertile and species-rich, many areas are now degraded by monocultures, and vital resources like water are becoming scarce in many places. This is about much more than climate. According to a new UN report, the global take-off of fossil energy, biomass and minerals is expected to triple in the period up to 2050. Therefore, the UN General Assembly in December also agreed that sustainable production and consumption is one of the new global objectives to follow up the Millennium Goals. The proposals we are debating now are about following up the government's support for these UN objectives with concrete measures at home. We know that the Earth's resources are limited, that nature has tolerance limits, and that our consumption drains resources out of societies and economies that need them more. Then we have to deal with that. But consumption reduction is also a profitable, exciting and technology-promoting project. It is well illustrated by some of the proposals that are being promoted today, such as: dividing by products and services which may in practice mean that society is getting more out of less because many can enjoy and benefit from the same product without buying it for themselves – or providing consumers with a longer period of protection, imposing stricter standards of quality and preventing goods on the market that are made to break up. It is also good for consumers, smart for the environment, and challenges producers to contribute to a more resource-efficient economy. Providing good framework conditions for repair, reuse and recycling is essential for a circuit economy to become slightly more than a motto. To the representative of the Right: to consider a proposal for stricter regulation of advertising in our public common spaces as a distrust of the consumer, I would say – to use the representative’s own words – is less realistic. After all, advertising spends billions on billions around the world just because it works. And we humans let ourselves be influenced by both neutral information and, of course, commercial advertising. Obviously, it's consuming. It is good that the Stortinget for the first time is debating the reduction of material consumption in Norway, but it is sad that the Left, Right and Advance Party have decided to vote against all the proposals that have been put forward in the case. The Labour Party is also voting down most of the reasons, as we have heard today, that there is a need for more assessment, even though most of the formulations are just beginning with wanting to investigate or more evaluation. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are on several good proposals, but it is only the SV who agree with the Green Party that the UK should adopt a target of reducing consumption to a fair and sustainable level by 2030. Many parties are opposed to making our material consumption a political issue. And yes, it has been common to think for a long time – and I would also say, perhaps not least – that consumption is something private that politicians should stay away from. Consumption is private, but in a globalised economy our private consumption is also political. Both public and private consumption has a direct impact on the ability of others to live a good life. It's politics. The resources on which the globe has to live – the basis of our economies – we share with people close and distant and with future generations. And we share them with other species. Obviously, it's the issue of Biggest since how our consumption can be reduced without reducing the quality of life. We note, in particular, that the Left here chooses to stand out from a number of good proposals that respond to several of the biggest global problems of our time at the same time: resource scarcity, food shortages, loss of biodiversity and climate change. We in the Greens are sure that the majority of the Biggest will take material over-exploitation seriously as the majority have also recognised the consequences of acid rain and climate change. Then again I would like to thank you for many good contributions, an exciting debate, and I take this up with me the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e407	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm has thus taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e410	It's rare you get the opportunity to discuss a topic that's so wide and so deep, and really a fundamental ideological question, like what we're talking about today. It's quite rare as a conservative politician that you get a natural opportunity to quote Edmund Burke from the pulpit, so I'll do it. One of my favorite quotes from Edmund Burke is: Society is a contract not only between those who live, but between those who are alive, those who are dead, and those who are still unborn. It is an important basis for this government that we are based on the administrative responsibility and precautionary principle. We've taken over a planet, and we're going to leave it to our kids in at least as good a condition as we took it from those who walked in front of us. It is very much about strengthening environmental protection and strengthening climate action, but it is also about doing so in a way that takes care of the economic basis and the welfare basis that we have inherited. Therefore, we must not use instruments in the fight against the environment that undermine our long-term ability to build a sustainable society, and that is why this is an important debate. It cannot be disputed – everyone agrees – that the pressure on the planet’s resources is unsustainable. We need to convert into a more resource-efficient economy. We know that global climate and environmental challenges require a green shift in the world and in Norway. Norway shall be a low-emission society by 2050, and it will bring about significant changes, including in the equipment of material consumption. The main challenge is to address the undesirable impacts of consumption and reduce the environmental impact of critical biological resources and ecosystem services. I think that both the Committee's good work on the matter and the debate here today show a great deal of agreement on the objective, but there are also clear differences in the view of what is going to happen in order to achieve the objective. I and the government are convinced that we need to use the market in the service of the environment, we need to use technology and technology development, and we need to stimulate that technology development in the service of the environment. It is not the government's policy to criticise or reduce the level of consumption in itself, as the Greens call for. The low-carbon society is not about refraining from consuming goods and services, but about responding to needs in smarter and less polluting ways. The Committee proposes the annual publication of statistics on the global footprint of Norwegian consumption. Footprint is a powerful communication tool that can show how Norwegian consumption affects other parts of the world. It is difficult to calculate such indicators. Good national data are required for production, imports and environmental impacts. In addition, data from production in other countries that are again influenced by large trade flows within the international division of labour are required. The footprints are therefore currently best suited to awareness and illustration, simply because the data base is not good enough today. More international cooperation and development is needed to establish such data access and good practices. Such work is carried out in, for example: The OECD, the EU and the Nordic Council of Ministers. We aim to follow up the Storting decision in cooperation with the Statistical Central Bureau by calculating and publishing footprint indicators where possible and appropriate. The objective will be to develop indicators in line with methodological developments internationally. The Committee also proposes to strengthen the right to return under the Consumer Purchases Act by providing several product groups with a five-year limitation period. The Committee assumes that certain categories of goods have a five-year limitation period, but the Consumer Purchases Act – which is otherwise the responsibility of the Minister of Justice – does not provide specific categories of goods with a specific period of protection. The purpose of the review period is to protect the consumer’s right to complain, not to regulate the durability of the product. However, insofar as producers adapt to the warranty period, it is important that goods that are intended to last significantly longer than two years are maintained for five years. The government is working towards the EU to influence the proposal for new distance selling rules in order to ensure that this is the case. We share the goal of halving the food throw, and we are doing a good job – in cooperation with professional organisations – to reduce food waste. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed in May 2015 setting out the framework for the work on a more concrete agreement, where we want to set reduction targets, find effective measures, identify sources and develop indicators across the food chain. We do not currently have sufficient basis to set a target, but it is part of the broad work that we are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e429	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e432	I thought I'd keep going a little bit about what the Council of State was at the end of its article, the question of food throwing, because it has a huge amount, and it really affects all stages in the value chain for food. It's obvious that the tools we have today to limit food throwing are too few. Therefore, the question of having only an industry agreement is also insufficient. Now we're not going to vote on the proposal of a majority of the parties in the committee as one wishes today, but we know that this issue has to come back to you in the context of the paper on waste and the circular economy, on which the Council of State was also concerned. Governments were a little elusive in terms of targets, and we are coming back to other countries, which have already set clear targets. So the question is simply, what level of ambition will the government set itself on? And when other countries go as far as France, for example. have done, could Norway also see it as realistic to set a target of halving the food throw?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e439	I think it's important that when we're going to set a goal, we need to get knowledge. We therefore work so closely with the professional organisations that are affected. We look, as I said, at what are sources, and what are possible measures, what are indicators for the whole food chain, and that could give us a basis for numerating a target, and we aim for such a numerical goal to come into an agreement, which we hope will be in place this year. When it comes to fixing targets, it's not something we're essentially negative about, but we think we'll get bigger and better results if we also have an interaction with the important actors about setting the goal. We are otherwise bound by, and we have supported, the UN's global sustainability objectives, such as: has a target of halving food discards and food waste at global level by 2030. It is not unnatural for Norway to lie about there. Moreover, the approach we have taken is of great interest to the EU in their work on the circular economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e446	Thanks to the Council of State for the commitment to the case and the quote from Edmund Burke, it's nice to be able to give an opportunity to do so. I referred to in my statement that the UN believes that the global extraction of fossil energy, biomass and minerals is likely to triple in the period up to 2050. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he has reason to question those forecasts, and whether he – if not – believes that Norway has a particular responsibility to do something about the over-consumption we are about to enter into.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e453	Forecasting in today's economic and technological developments is difficult. This is what we see in Norway in terms of our own economic development and budgetary work given the refugee situation and other, but also global, trends. The technological development we see not least in the energy field today, makes it quite difficult to be absolutely certain of different forecasts. It was mentioned if we had an exponential increase in consumption. No, we don't, but we may have an exponential development in renewable energy, and it's an incredibly positive development. Yesterday also came the message that the world's largest coal company is going bankrupt. It shows the dynamics of the energy field. Norway has a significant responsibility and does a lot of work on technology development, but whether we can rely on forecasts based on previous years, I'm not going to be too sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e458	I'd like to catch up to something the Council of State came along with. It does not apply to the quotation of Edmund Burke; what I would like to grasp is what he did when he actually quoted Gro Harlem Brundtland, who spoke about the importance of sustainability and that sustainability has three elements. It's the social thing, like, for example, sustainability targets are set in such a way that the growth of income in all countries, including Norway, for the 40 pst. the poorest shall be higher than the average. That's not exactly what the government is taking us into. The second is the economic one, as the minister stressed, and the third is the sustainable one. The question is: today, companies are mainly reporting on their financial results. Then you have to report on the impact on the external environment, and on whether you have good HMS standards. However, the proposal launched by several large companies is that they should also report on social and environmental sustainability. Why does the Minister not support such developments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e465	There are complex issues related to the nature of indicators and the types of mechanisms appropriate for reporting. The imposition on business of additional reporting obligations without sufficient basis for the type of reporting obligations is not provided by that government. We want to make life easier for business. It's also because we see that the dynamics of business today are going towards the greener. The smart money is increasingly following the green solutions, and then we have to make it easier to be a business. Then we have to make it easier to hire people in green growing businesses. We need to reduce taxes to make companies invest more and attract international investment to green business in Norway. That's our approach, because we see that if we play along with the market, if we play along with positive technology development, we can achieve much more than regulation and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e471	Seriously -- it's like if you look at what kind of tax havens are given, it's not exactly a green cut over the taxes given by this government. We have a Minister of Transport who says that we should not make it more expensive to pollute in road traffic. This is his main goal – he was out in Dagbladet and said together with several other ministers here a day. It is that the largest tax burden granted by the government in this budget was a tax relief for the oil industry, because it changed the composition of corporation tax and rent tax. So don't come here and come here when it comes to talking about tax laws that go in the green direction and play along with business. So I put the question back again: if you're going to make it easy for investors to choose the green companies, isn't it important to make sure that companies actually report it in such a way that consumers and investors know what kind of companies it is that are green?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e478	The answer to the last one is, it might be, and that's one of the reasons why the Committee on Accounting Law, among other things. looks at the presentation of information on non-financial relationships. It is also concerned with environmental information. They're going to deliver their investigation in the summer. But we must not forget that the starting point in getting consumption and production more environmentally friendly is that we need profitable jobs, and we need investment in the profitable jobs. The two major tax issues discussed this year in Stortinget are the corporate tax and – it is going to be – the Green Tax Commission and its follow-up. The company tax has the potential to be green, because we need to attract more investment, among other things. the greenest industry in the world. The alternative is that the money goes to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e485	I will continue the debate that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås went up in the last lineword shift, for I really think that the Council of State made a pretty good contribution on this topic. I do not agree with all the proposals by the Green Party, or with all the messages they have in these debates, but I do agree that they have some good points, and I think it is a little surprising that right-wing and progressive party politicians are going to compete to make the most of it. I think that the Council of State gave it a pretty good light, and that it's actually a rather conservative position, too, saying that material consumption and material growth cannot go on forever, because we have a responsibility to take care of nature and our climate. What I was stunned about was when he started talking about this government running a tax policy for a green shift, when they've made petrol cheaper, and the most important tax cuts they've made, is to increase the purchasing power of the richest in Norway. My question to the Council of State is whether he can say anything about the environmental impact of the tax cuts he has done, rather than, for example. to invest in experiences such as culture, or the employment of new nurses or teachers, as the Workers' Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e494	As far as I know, there are no figures as to whether it is public money or private money that has the largest greenhouse gas emissions. I think we'll be pretty careful to be categorical about that. But I think that if we are to create the growth force in Norway that is needed in the green transition, we need to implement quite classic market mechanisms. That is one of the reasons why one of our most important initiatives in this area is the Green Competitiveness Expert Committee. It is in many ways a Norwegian follow-up to the international report The New Climate Economy, where Jens Stoltenberg was one of the leaders, who a few years ago unequivocally concluded that economic growth and the fight against climate change go hand in hand – and have to go hand in hand. And that's why, among other things, tax policy and an attractive and good industrial policy are important in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e501	The crucial project to address the world’s current resource waste is to develop a circular economy, combined with a circuit-based waste system. There is no doubt that with regard to the development of the rules in order to achieve the circular economy, the EU is in the driver’s seat. The EU is also in the driving position to impose waste management requirements on waste minimisation, recycling and recycling. Pending the issue of the circular economy, and not least the notification of waste, can the Council confirm that we will have legislation in Norway on waste, which has at least as high ambitions as EU legislation? It is above the Norwegian ambitions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e506	We have no one to cooperate with, and no one we are closer to, than the European Union in terms of environmental requirements in general. We also have a very positive view of the plans for the circular economy. We are concerned that it needs to be knowledge-based, and there are some elements in the EU discussion that we believe are not sufficiently knowledge-based. These include: on three, which is a material that we use much more than many European countries, and where we have methods for re-use that are not fully recognised in what the EU is now working on. I brought that up with Commissioner Vella a few weeks ago. So it might vary a little bit from sector to sector what levels and standards we want, but the main message is that of course we want legislation that is in close international. It is also interesting that the European Environment Commissioner was very interested in the work we are doing with the professional organisations in reducing food waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e511	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e516	There are several people here who are disappointed in the Left, but there's definitely no reason. We're facing a huge task of reducing the environmental impact that we're putting on Earth, but when we look at these proposals, I don't think they bring us much closer to the goal, for example. if a excise duty is imposed on commercial advertising, or if the government is to ‘design requirements for goods of a kind where this is natural, to be designed in such a way that repair is possible’, or ‘the government is asked to submit a plan to increase the life and quality of goods’. I really don't think that's the way to go about getting results. If you want to get results on these big problems, you have to have a completely different systematics in the way you work. We were the biggest in the loop, and it's all about the power that's behind developing a circular economy, including the matter of a waste plan. It'll be very important in the years to come. The way we work in budgets, the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission and the way we use taxes and taxes are crucial to achieving these goals in the years to come. The way we use bans and impositions to reduce the use of chemicals in society is becoming very important in the years to come — and how we use the power we have through public procurement to reduce environmental pressures. This is where decisions have been taken, but it needs to be developed, and there are many who have responsibility in the years to come. Another thing is the way we're going to share more – we're going to have a society where you focus less on owning, but have access to resources – this is something that you see developing especially in cities, but that can develop to a large extent in the years to come. What we need to get in place is a systematic work that drives down the resource use we have, whether it's greenhouse gas emissions, that's going down by 40 pst. in Norway by 2030, or it is to stop the loss of biodiversity and to look at how we use our land, how we reduce the accumulation of pollutants that are in nature, or how we use resources far better than today, so that we do not get into the resource shortage that the world is on its way to, or is already in. This is crucial: to achieve results – not a collection of proposals like here in this case, which will not bring us any closer to the objective that we have. Here it takes a completely different will and systematics to get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e545	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e552	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It has not been a demanding task to be rapporteur on this matter. Our cultural memories are of unique value, whether they be profanous buildings, church buildings, vessels or industrial cultural memories. It is beyond doubt that cultural memories create pride and identity and can play a significant role in experience and industrial development. Proposals keep affordable pressure on the urgency of protection and maintenance, and it is important to see this in its entirety, so that we do not lose any of these important cultural memories. The specific proposal is as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of important cultural memories and to promote a case for the Storting on a comprehensive plan for the preservation of the country’s most important cultural memories.’ In its response to the Energy and Environment Committee, the then Council of State Sundtoft said that progress in several conservation programmes has been weaker than desired. She further says that the government in the 2017 draft budget will come back to a full review of the achievement of the target so far and provide an assessment of the way forward. We'll stress that it's important that this happens. However, it should be pointed out that the size of the report as late as June 2013. St. 35 for 2012–2013, Future with a foothold – Cultural Memory Policy, and then a full review of the subject area was carried out. As the then state council has already admitted, the follow-up to this message has had a later progress than requested. We think it is unfortunate, but still find that there is no basis for a new overall review now, after just barely three years. It is more important that the government uses the energy to follow up the message that has already been processed. We therefore propose that Document 8:12 S for 2015-2016 be annexed to the Protocol. Now it should be said that the Document 8 proposal was a useful reminder to the government that this has run into the longest layers, and there is reason to point out that the government must already start working on cultural memory policy after 2020, so that the Stortinge has a good basis for further developing cultural memory policy at a later stage. Of course, it is an independent point that many cultural memories are strongly influenced by climate change and that these can lead to an enhanced or altered maintenance need for several cultural memories, in some cases a completely new damage image. We have been able to predict this for quite a few years, and several previous governments and large-scale figures should take on the fact that we haven't started early enough to meet this extra challenge. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in this room that it is important to manage well the cultural heritage that lies in our cultural memories and that it is a common national responsibility to preserve the diversity of buildings, installations and vessels that together and individually have a unique value. Maintenance requires knowledge, and sadly, there are examples that maintenance with a lack of knowledge has had unfortunate consequences. However, research related to cultural memories re-establishes knowledge and methods that may have been lost for a period of time and allow for better management. It's cost-intensive, it's time-consuming, it's knowledge-intensive, but it's infinitely important. That is why we are expecting to meet the review announced in the draft budget for the autumn, including a good plan to catch up. We have a lot to be proud of and nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e579	The Minister for Climate and Environment and the Stortinget have a great responsibility to take care of our nature, the nature that those who have gone before us have left untouched. We have the same responsibility for leaving nature in the same condition as we got it. But we also have a responsibility to leave the human tracks: the cultural memories that say as much about Norway as a country and us as a people. They tell us a lot about our story, where it's from. Yesterday, together with a number of other representatives, I got a tour around here at Stortinget, one of our most important cultural memories, this building that tells a 150-year story about Norway. I think we're all happy that we've taken such good care of the Storting, that even though it's modernized, we've been busy preserving a lot of it as it was. We also have to do that for other cultural memories. We know that too many cultural memories are in poor condition – old industrial memories, private buildings, churches and other public buildings. I think we're too little reflecting on how important cultural memories are to us. It's only when they're gone that we really see what they meant. This is what we see when there have been major destructions, fires or floods — communities that are saddened by what they have lost. It's much cheaper to put cultural memories in good condition and prevent destruction than it is to repair major destruction. Putting cultural memories into good condition will also allow them to be used more widely. For cultural memories shall not be museum buildings that we shall look at; they shall be there for us. It's also the best way to make sure that people themselves feel ownership of the memory, and even do what they can to take care of them. Climate change is a threat to most, including cultural memories. More extreme weather causes construction to be at risk. It makes it even more important to take care of cultural memories. We need to know more about how climate change is going to affect this. The previous government presented a big message about cultural memories, which the case-rapporteur so brilliantly explained. In June 2013, the size of the population adopted targets for a large-scale effort to secure cultural memories by 2020. That's what the government's mission is to follow up. It doesn't. With the pace we have today, we will not be able to achieve the goals that the Stortinget has adopted. I hope the Council of State in its statement describes how he intends to work towards Norway when the objectives of Stortinget have instructed him to follow up. The most important debates we have on cultural memories are when we present the state budgets. This government has not invested in it. The appropriations we've had so far have not been close to what we need to get to the goal. Nevertheless, this is a debate that drowns a little in all the major budgetary debates. Cultural memories do not have the place they deserve when the budgets are being discussed, nor when the Committee on Energy and the Environment is discussing the budgets in our area. It is good that all parties now ask for a full review of the state budget coming to the autumn, of where we are. We nevertheless believe that we could go further, and that we could have got a case of our own that had also given the cultural memories the place they deserve, that had a review of where we are – whether we are on the way to achieving our goals and ambitions – and not least a comprehensive plan for how to get there that we can take care of all the cultural memories that mean so much to us. It is a pity that this proposal today does not seem to have a majority, but I would like to take up with this the proposal that we, together with the SV, the Central Party and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e600	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e603	This proposal for a representative addresses the issue of an overall review of important cultural memories and that a comprehensive plan for this should be presented to the Stortinget. There is a great deal of consensus in the committee – and I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work – that it is a national responsibility to preserve the diversity of cultural memories we have in Norway, it is the large number of protected and conservation buildings in private ownership, old, prestigious boats that local enthusiasts spend a lot of time and money on, or industrial cultural memories that tell new generations the story of how Norway has become the welfare society it is today. As the Council of State writes in its reply letter, it is easy to agree with the importance of caring for the cultural heritage. The policies followed have the basis of St. meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, Living with cultural memories, and Meld. St. 35 for 2012–2013, Future with footrests. The latest communication continued both the level of ambition and the targets adopted by the Storting in 2005. The aim is to take care of the diversity of cultural memories and environments as resources for use and as a basis for knowledge, experiences and value creation. It is also an objective that a selection of cultural memories and environments, which document the geographical, social, ethnic, food and time breadth, should be permanently protected by 2020 by means of conservation. Protection work is organised in ten conservation programmes, which are the main means of achieving the 2020 objectives. Many good results have been achieved and for several of the programmes it may appear that these objectives can be achieved. Rehabilitation work for staves includes, inter alia: completed in line with the 2015 target, so that efforts can now be concentrated on ongoing maintenance and hedging. The revised national budget for 2014 granted 10 million. kr extra for fire protection of dense wooden housing and stave churches. In the 2015 budget, the same objective was reinforced by 20 million. kr. This effort has also continued in the 2016 budget. The preservation programme for technical and industrial cultural memories, for medieval ruins, for rock art and for selected archaeological and cultural heritage also looks as if the objectives can be achieved. Other programmes, on the other hand, have a slightly greater challenge in terms of backlog. Actions under these programmes have therefore been given special priority in recent years, although the situation may still be demanding. The center part and SV are behind a comment I feel a certain need to comment. These parties say that too little emphasis has been placed on the achievement of the national objectives during this ageing period and that the Right and Advance Party have given up on these objectives. These are statements that are easy to refute. Overall, the cultural memory budget has increased from 614 million. SEK in 2014 to 640 million. kr in 2015. Similarly, it has increased to 708 million. kr in 2016. This represents an increase of 4,1 and 10,8 pst, respectively. Among other things, the Cultural Memory Fund increased by 10 million. kr in the 2016 agreement, just to limit the backlog in the case of private-owned peaced cultural memories. This draft representative was promoted in October 2015 and the good intentions of the proposal were achieved through Prop. 1 S for 2015-2016. Here the government announces that in the 2017 draft budget they will come back to a full review of the achievement of the target so far and an assessment of the way forward. In this way, there should not be a need for a separate proposal asking the government to do what they have already said they should do. The majority of the population also agree with this view, and I look forward to the review that comes with next year's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e622	According to the Cultural Memory Act, cultural memories are defined as ‘all traces of human activity in our physical environment, including locations to which historical events, faith or tradition relate’. We know that there has been human activity in Norway for many, many thousand years, so you can be sure that the potential for cultural memories is extensive. These may vary from tombs via residential sites to recent industrial buildings, vessels or different types of churches and other buildings. In addition to museums, municipalities, counties and countries, much cultural protection in Norway is organised and carried out by volunteers, by private individuals, or by non-governmental organisations. In this context, I will give all credit to all the volunteer souls who set aside time and resources for various activities to secure our cultural heritage for the future. However, the demand for maintenance of protected and protected cultural memories is high – has been high and is still high. Every year, some protective buildings or cultural landscapes disappear forever because they have not been restored. As far back as 2004–2005, Life with Cultural Memories, the review of the ‘Gross Communication’ concluded an overall increase in national cultural policy objectives. The annual loss of heritage and cultural heritage resulting from their removal, destruction or decay shall be minimised. By 2020, the loss shall not exceed 0,5 percentage points per year. Peaceful and protective cultural memories shall be ensured to have an ordinary level of maintenance by 2020. Cultural memories are publicly coordinated under the National Antiquities. For 2016 only, it has been granted more than 0.5 billion. kr for cultural memory and grants for protection and conservation in the cultural memory area. Since the accession of the Right-wing Party Government in October 2013, the appropriations for this work have increased by 100 million. kr, so although there is someone in this room who thinks that the government is not betting, it is actually that the appropriations have increased, by 100 million. kr. The Progress Party will continue to work to improve the coordination of cultural memory work by the public sector and to pursue the objectives set by the Stortinget for cultural memory work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e638	The cultural memories and the cultural environment are some of the most important parts of what we call the collective memory of society. We agree – every time – when we write the setting. We agree on the 2020 targets. We've been for years. We agree with this setting as well. But if we don't get together and actually do something over the next four years, we're not going to achieve the 2020 goals -- we're not going to do it. We must recognise that cultural protection has lost the fight for the budget in the last two years. The absolutely necessary promises proposed by the government when it came to fire safety were financed by some large cuts within the budget of the Riksantikvaren – that is the case. And the government found that we need 120 million. kr every year for the next four years if we are to achieve the 2020 targets. That's the fasit. In a way, the setting we are dealing with today is also marked by the same thing. We agree on the words, we agree on the targets, we agree on the description, but we all know in a bunch that what's going to be crucial is if you can allocate the 120 million needed. NOK – at least 120 million. kr – each year in the future budget. I think that either we must now decide that we will achieve the goals and collectively follow up what we say in the settings, with appropriations each harvest in the future, otherwise these objectives will not be fulfilled. The centre party has given priority to three areas of our cultural memory policy, which we believe as a whole can achieve the objectives. One is that you have to increase the different grant schemes, and we can't even do it again in such a way that we give priority to one area by taking from another area. It is the entire cultural memory sector that needs to be prioritised with increased appropriations and increased subsidies. The second is that one can do part by strengthening the Cultural Memory Fund at Røros, so that there is also more money to give back and distribute to those who are active and make a great and important effort in this area. The deal that the fund has, which means that the state accounts for one third of the costs, while the private and voluntary account for two thirds, is really a very good deal. And more money is needed to finance the fissures on which the Cultural Memory Fund is involved. The third thing that has to be, I think it's tax-free. Tax relief must be granted to those owners who actually have the kind of cultural memories in their possession and who want to help preserve and restore the cultural memories or environments that are privately owned. The three things in context can work. I feel that it is positive that we once again agree with the setting today. That's good. But we no longer need just a majority for new words and not just a majority for new overall plans. We need a majority for more resources, and we will have the opportunity to agree on that in the budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e651	I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that when it comes to preserving cultural memories, what we need in the first place is not a new overall review of important cultural memories. So the Left does not vote for the proposal of the minority, but it is not because we do not agree that this is an important work, but because we believe that what is important now is that we actually implement the plans we have. We have great news from both 2005 and 2013, with the ten conservation programmes referred to earlier. Now it's about these that they have to be followed up and implemented. Some of them are implemented: the program for stave churches has a good goal. And even if it's too low, it's also followed up with technical-industrial cultural memories. Also with regard to the Middle Ages Conservation Programme, the Mountain Art Conservation Programme and the Conservation Programme for Selected Archaeological Heritage and Cultural Environment, the objectives will be achieved to a large extent. Where there are and have been problems, are in the field of ‘Protection of vessels’. This field was provided with significant increases in funds last year, which have been further increased this year. Where there is still a great aftertaste, it is within the programme of privately owned peaceful cultural memories, and it is important for the state to follow up more closely those who own these cultural memories. On the left, we are satisfied with and believe it is important that we now have a review of the status of the 2017 budget. But it's equally important how to evaluate the way forward. What is absolutely crucial is that we get new programmes that point forward towards 2030, 2035 and 2040, as the Committee points out in its comments. Now we're going to get to this step, and then we're going to move on from the state. One thing is the national, protective cultural memories, which must be followed up by the Riksantikvaren and the state. It is equally important to have systems to maintain the uniform protective structures that we have in Norway. In this context, the Culture Memory Fund is crucial, and we have also strengthened it – not least in the budget of the year – and the Left will give priority to this in the years to come. But we also need a slightly different thinking. The Committee points out that climate change threatens cultural memories. It is right and important, but it is also important that we view cultural memories as an important part of combating climate change, because there is one thing that the UN Climate Fund points out, is that one of the most important measures to combat climate change is to make better use of the already existing population. It's about caring for the population that we have, by signaling to municipalities and others who are engaged in land-use planning, that preserving the climate is not just about building tighter and higher, but that it's about caring for the population that is already there, and then having a customization of the new buildings that are to be set up. Not least in the context of the issue we have just dealt with, which is that we are going to reduce the resource footprint, it is essential that we manage to preserve the evenly protective building mass that we have in Norway, much better than we are doing now. Here's a lot of resources to save. There are many important cultural memories to preserve, and there is a lot of good local development that we can achieve, by better preserving and appreciating the history that lies in the breadth of cultural memories that we have in Norway, while at the same time putting our image and seeing our time in the context of the already existing population. Here we have a big problem. This isn't just about looking at the Riksantik product. It is equally important to look at the whole of national responsibility, not least when looking at the whole plan tool, and that this is also communicated down to the municipalities, and that the municipalities that aim at local development and urban development build on the values we have, while at the same time spending their time up to and up on what is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e670	Cultural historical values are an important resource for society in the development of good cities and cities with souls, for business development and value creation, among others. within travel life, for knowledge and insight into our long history and for experiences – yes, just for the recognition that someone has gone before us and built before us. Large parts of future Norway have already been built. As the representative of Elvesuen was just about to say, caring for the buildings we already have is an important part of this. The evening post recently had a look at how the re-use of existing building stock, usually through what is called experimental building protection, is considered to be tomorrow's most important construction activity. The background to the survey was the removal of central cultural-historical buildings such as the NRK and the National Museum without any plans for new use. In such a perspective, the continued use of resources that have already been created and where the climate impact is largely set will be important not only to preserve cultural historical values but also to contribute to climate policy. With such a starting point, it is very easy for me to say that I agree with the proposers when they bring forward the values that cultural memories represent, the challenges we face in managing them in a good way, and the importance of good and clear framework conditions for public authorities, voluntary organisations and private individuals in their efforts to take care of important cultural historical values. Appropriations in the field of cultural memory will follow up the policy of the major messages mentioned, St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, Living with cultural memories, and Meld. St. 35 for 2012–2013, Future with footrests. The last communication, from 2013, continued both the level of ambition and the targets adopted by the Storting in 2005. The aim is to take care of the diversity of cultural memories and environments as resources for use and as a basis for knowledge, experiences and value creation. It is also an objective that a selection of cultural memories and environments that document the geographical, social, ethnic, nutritional and temporal breadth should have permanent protection by 2020 through conservation. Protection work is organised in ten conservation programmes, which are the main means of achieving the 2020 objectives. As has been said, we have achieved many good results, and for several of the programmes, it looks like we are going to achieve the 2020 targets. An example is the refurbishment programme for stave churches, which was completed in line with the target last year, so that efforts can now be concentrated on the ongoing maintenance and securing work. But then there are also programmes that have major challenges in terms of backlog. It is the largest within the programme for private-owned peaced cultural memories, the Conservation Programme for the Protection of Ships, with the Maritime Protection Centres, and within the Sámi Cultural Memory Conservation Programme. This is why the efforts of these programmes have been particularly important in recent years, but there is still a difficult situation. The Committee points to the importance of a coordinated use of instruments across State-sector responsibilities. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has an important cross-sectoral role in the follow-up to cultural memory policy. An example of the good performance of that role is the project Staten’s cultural historical properties, which have achieved many good results. This is one of the largest conservation projects that have been carried out in Norway. All sectors and areas of activity of the country have recorded and evaluated the cultural historical values associated with their properties. Nearly 10,000 properties have been assessed, and nearly 1,000 properties are at peace. As regards the interface with the Ministry of Culture's responsibility for the museum sector and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries's responsibility for value creation and travel, I agree with the Committee that these are important areas of cooperation which should be developed further. As I said, progress in several of the conservation programmes is weaker than desirable. That is why, in the 2017 draft budget, we will come back with a review of the achievement of the target so far and an assessment of the way forward. I believe that this gives room to address the issues and challenges raised in the Document 8. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that there is therefore no basis for a separate review beyond what has been announced in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e695	We hear the minister says we're not on track to achieve the targets. Then I have two simple questions. One is whether the objectives are consistent, stand firm, for government policy, and – Question 2 – whether it is considered that the government is pursuing a policy that will ensure that we achieve the targets by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e700	The status review that comes into the budget for the autumn will provide more precise answers to that, but I have already indicated where we are doing well and expect to achieve goals – stave churches, technical-industrial cultural memories, medieval ruins, rock art, conservation programs for selected archaeological cultural memories and the cultural environment – and the areas where we have come closer. In the case of privately owned cultural memories, ship protection and Sami cultural memories. The targets are established. We must invest more and give priority to efforts in the areas where we have come short, and it is important that we continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e707	Thank you for clarifying that the targets are set. The Council of State did not respond to question 2, namely whether the government is pursuing a policy to achieve its objectives. Then I'd say they don't. It's actually illustrated in what the council itself says, that we're not on the way. So my question to the Council of State is: what is he going to do, what does he think the government is going to do in the next two years so that we can achieve the goals that the Government has ordered the Council of State to follow up, and as the Council of State says are the goals he wants to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e714	Now, the proposal of several, including Aukraust, about a review will be dealt with through what we come back into the budget. The purpose of this is precisely to establish the status and to be able to invite to a discussion about what needs to be done further. When the review is requested, the review will also provide a better basis for identifying the priorities on the road. But that we're doing a good job in the cultural memory field and have increased the effort considerably in the budgets between the government parties and the cooperation parties, the numbers clearly talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e719	As far as I can understand the Council of State, the cultural memory campaign has a bad course against disaster due to underfunding, if the course is not shifted in a more ambitious direction. It's kind of nice to hear the wording of the Council of State. ‘We have to bet more’ and ‘it is important that we carry on’ were the wording of the Council of State. It is the ‘more batch’ bit that is the central one. Governments are also well-known for not reaching the 2020 climate front targets because of a lack of will and ability, rather to set new targets ten years in advance. But just as we can't accept it in the climate field on the side of Stortinget, we can't allow it in the cultural memory field. Therefore, when the Council of State says that the targets are now firm, what will the government do beyond reviewing status? What will the government actually do to make sure that we reach the goals that the Storing has reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e726	The answer to that is relatively simple: we're going forward. To a large extent, we will achieve the objectives in a number of areas. We have a significant lag in some areas, and that's why we give particular priority to those areas where we've come short. There is no need to change the course. It's rather about keeping the course, but increasing the speed of some of the programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e731	I really take it as a matter of course that the Riksantikvaren is given the task of looking at new objectives and new programmes after 2020, and that we get a good status on where we are now, to the harvest, when the budget comes. What I would like to ask you more is the assessment by the Council of State as a climate minister of the interaction between the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, now that the Planning and Building Act has moved over there, but also the Ministry of Transport, which is going to establish an urban environmental agreement with demands for tightness around the collective connecting point. And you have the state actors, whether it's Entra, ROM Property or others, who are big city developers. Does the Council of State have any initiative towards them to preserve local and regional cultural memories, while we are going to continue, as an important climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e738	A large part of the responsibility for the cultural memory field lies precisely with those involved in urban environments and protected buildings in urban environments. It is of great importance in the urbanisation we see, and it is very important that we, in the organisation of urbanisation, which is climate friendly in itself, and in the organisation of good transport solutions and fortifications, take these into account. There are no other requirements for protection in principle, but it is very important that it is taken into account, because there is a dynamic in that field. For climate reasons, transport solutions and urbanisation, we see that the provision of these living and good urban environments becomes a more important area year after year, almost.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e743	I thank you for the answer, but my further question is about: although there are no self-regulations for the state actors, it is nevertheless a goal that the state should be at the forefront of building on and building on historical settlements and adapting new settlements to the historical one, so that at least the state, with all its actors, has this as its main focus – and not that the state should become a traditional actor, which, of course, would like to build higher and closer, with less space, and could tear more – a traditional position, but this time in the service of climate. The state must have an overall responsibility and be in the front line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e748	We don't disagree. This does not mean that one avoids the specific assessments in the individual case, where the considerations can be competitive. But that we see that the cultural memory effort related to urban development is only becoming more important, and that the state itself must have this consideration highly, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e754	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e759	As an alternate for one of the proposers, I would like to take the opportunity to point to a part of our cultural heritage that is practically in the process of being confused – the medieval churches. In addition, it may be timely to recall this now when the Storting is about to loosen the ties between church and state. From the letters of the Council of State to the Committee on the subject, it is clear that the government has granted a few million for the fire protection of our stave churches – and that is of course important. The stave churches are largely restored as part of a national virtue. But now it is time for other sheltered churches to be given priority. In Norway today there are 194 medieval churches in stone. 22 of these are in my own state, Westfold. As a rule, the municipalities are responsible for the preservation of church buildings. But in a depressed community economy, this unfortunately leads to the neglect of important parts of our cultural heritage. The church buildings are a great cultural treasure that must be preserved. That'll take care of the Riksantik product. But it's the municipalities that have to cover the restoration costs. The church is known as ‘an old house’, as it says in the psalm, and the buildings must be preserved as far as possible in their original form. The system of interest compensation for loans to church buildings contributes somewhat, but is close enough to meet the needs of municipalities for funding. In smaller municipalities with several old church buildings in particular, the restoration and maintenance of church buildings is a burdensome task. In addition, the grant schemes of the Riksantikvar and the Cultural Memory Fund are underfunded, and they do not cover church buildings. Nor does the Information Society's fund, which should be a contributor to the preservation of church buildings, feel some responsibility for this task. In a recent decision at its annual meeting, the Workers’ Party in Westfold called for the State to cover the cost of restoration of protected and listed churches, preferably through a scheme under the Riksantikvaren. This is particularly true of the medieval churches, and I stress that the preservation of church buildings is just part of a comprehensive cultural memory policy. And then, of course, I can add that such a scheme will have a significant employment effect. In today’s situation, this is not least significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e774	Cultural memories are important, but I'm not sure whether plans – new plans – are what we need. I will also, as the previous speaker, go into the medieval churches. Drought half of them we've known are preserved, and the entire 22 of them are in Westfold. In one of the smallest municipalities in Vestfold, Re municipality, they have five churches and 9,300 inhabitants. Three of the churches are medieval churches. I remember that the medieval churches in many towns are the site's most important cultural memory. They represent evidence of history far back in time and contribute to pride and sense of identity. At the same time, the medieval churches constitute a national tax, which should be in the best interests of everyone. The maintenance of these churches is under the control of the Riksantikvarn. It makes sense to ensure that the work is done in a professionally correct manner. But the disadvantage is that the costs fall on the municipalities. These costs are also significantly higher than when ordinary churches are to be maintained. Of the municipal maintenance services often mentioned, medieval churches represent a significant proportion for many. This is very regrettable, as this is about tough priorities, and it is not up to the municipalities themselves to decide the maintenance of these churches. After all, what we need to look at in the future is not new plans, but perhaps funding – how do we finance this in the future? Because there are many cultural treasures. And when we mention that the Information Service's fund owns approx. 2.7 B.C.E. kr, and a significant part of this comes from the sale of precincts and land, should you perhaps think of new thoughts – perhaps a greater part of it should go to take a shawl for medieval churches, so that you can get it up to go, as you have done with stave churches? So I don't support the proposers, who think we should have a new plan to map. Mapping has been done, you have good plans, but how do we finance them? I have not yet heard the proposers come into this matter. There is something the Storting should address and discuss in the future, simply new forms of funding to ensure cultural tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e785	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e799	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e810	The legislative proposals relating to the Energy Act presented by the Government are relatively extensive, affect the whole country and affect a number of companies and businesses. There are also principles in this case relating to future regulations and adjustments in the Energy Act on, among others. the external links between Norway and other countries with regard to the transmission of electricity. In this proposition, there are four specific areas in which there are amendments. It is a proposal to require a corporate and functional distinction between network activities and all other activities for all network carriers. Furthermore, it is proposed that the transmission system, which was previously the central network, become the highest level of the network and be defined by the Energy Act and that the Ministry may decide in individual decisions which facilities are part of it. The third amendment proposed is an authorisation to provide regulations on concessionaires under the Energy Act as coordinating distribution system operator. And the fourth is that there is a proposal to provide for the right to convert that deviates from the time limits of the Administrative Act in the event of errors in the data base in determining the income frameworks of the network companies. Let me start by saying that the last two points of the amendment that I referred to have not been a very big discussion about. The Committee does indeed consider it to be minor adjustments to existing legislation. Then there are the two other proposals mentioned, which have created greater commitment and greater discussion, and which have also been reflected in the Committee through greater uncertainty about both the basis and the consequences of the legislative proposals promoted by government teams. With regard to the views of the various parties on these two questions and the amendments, I would refer to the Committee's position, which I think well describes the different views of the parties. But the committee is very dispersed in its thoughts about it. With regard to the future of the transmission system companies and the distribution of electricity, the Committee is in fact very united on the future points of view. One sees great investment and that the monopoly function of the network companies must be properly performed. Not least is the requirement for one to act neutrally, importantly, in the same way as one to divide into two levels in terms of our electricity grid in the future, towards today's three levels. There the committee is gathered, but from there and on, the consensus is separated, and one is really very – we're going to say – wondering about the disagreement that is there. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we build and regulate society in a way that is appropriate, credible, and that creates opportunities. Looking at the electricity grid and its history, we know that the electricity grid has done what it needs to do – the networks have done what they need to do: they supply electricity in terms of both quality and price. They've done that in a good way. Taking into account changing weather throughout the different seasons and geography and topography, which is absolutely essential in this country, not least in terms of housing, they have undoubtedly solved the task well. So I think we all agree that online customers are not going to pay anything more than what the web service itself actually costs. Therefore, network operation has been regulated as a monopoly activity, with strong regulation through control regulation and other rules on how to do so. Finally, in the case of the NVE, the State has the supervisory authority to exercise that function in a good and proper manner. We believe from the Labour Party that this works well today. So the question is, what is in the legislative amendment for the future? Through an EU requirement in another energy market package, we have been required to establish a corporate and functional separation for all network companies with more than 100000 customers. One may ask questions about the appropriateness of this EU requirement. I don't think so – I don't think the Storting on its own initiative, without an EU requirement, would have introduced such a type of regulation. On the contrary, I think one might have thought about both once and twice before one had introduced such a requirement. The high level of involvement in this bill comes, of course, from the belief that the legal requirement for functional separation – and insofar as it is also a company distinction – is inappropriate, bureaucratic, demeaning and a legally completely unfairly detailed management of how an owner can organise his own business. Major parts of the companies, professional organisations, employee organisations, a number of rapporteurs, chairmanship and local authorities around the country have clearly rejected the detailed management that today's government, through the government parties with the help of the Left, will implement – through the proposals for the adoption of legislative amendments that they will vote for today. Policies can be pursued in several ways. It is possible to choose an approach to regulation and government governance and control in order to demonstrate the willingness to remove inappropriate, bureaucratic and costly legal regulations — or to do the opposite. Today's government does – strangely enough – just that, the opposite. One changes the law, makes it more expensive, more inappropriate, more bureaucratic, and one puts an end to using the law in a good way. Understand the one who can. What is also strange in this matter is that the Committee has asked a number of questions about the impact of these legislative amendments – what will they mean? But we don't get any answer. We've asked, how much does this cost? We don't get any answers. Either the council doesn't know the answer, or he won't give it. It is in a way a little strange that a government that claims to oppose bureaucracy, which claims that it is to limit costs and regulation in society, with blindfolds for the eyes, adopts a detailed management – without even knowing how much it will cost, and what the long-term consequences of the bill are. It seems to me very wonderful – or admirable. A report of the Energy Association of the Districts has been prepared to show that the costs of requiring a corporate and functional distinction can amount to 1.3 billion and 3.3 billion respectively. So over a ten-year period, $4.6 billion in total. kr. If the number is right, it's the online customers, the residents of this country, who have to pay this bill. The Council of State would certainly say that that number is not at all correct. It will probably also say the government parties and the left, but they cannot document it. They can't prove a single number of the consequences of what they're now proposing. I find it worrying that someone invites Stortinget to actually make law decisions with blindfolds. So the transmission network. The Committee agrees in principle that it makes sense to have two levels of network in the future and that the transmission network should be owned and operated by Statnet. Very good – we agree. But then the government parties come up with a thought that the foreign connections between Norway and the continent or Norway and other countries can be owned by anyone, even though one in this bill makes it very clear that it should be Statnet that owns and operates it, as part of the transmission network. It is – let's say – ideology in the practical everyday life where ideology does not fully see the consequences it can have. The second is that there has been a discussion about large consumers, i.e. power-processing industries, where a large minority – the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – propose a non-discriminatory non-discrimination of these companies in the electricity grid, and ask for an investigation. The Government Parties and the Left say no to such an investigation. Understand the one who can. Any industrial heart that has at any time knocked on either the Advance Party or the Right must, with such accidents to such an important industry and industry, have stopped beating when they see how little they actually are of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e842	Does the representative wish to address the proposals available?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e845	Yes, I do -- I take up the suggestions that the Labour Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e850	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e855	A number of claims have been made on the costs of this distinction. Reports have also been made to show that the introduction of functional and corporate separation will bring significant savings, up to 950 million. kr in the current year. It's a much lower figure than Defo's estimate, and if you see this over ten years, it's up to 19 billion. kr. The question is, why does the rapporteur draw Defo as the only witness of truth, when there are obviously other analyses of this. And why does the Workers' Party totally disregard the savings that efficient operations would bring by possible aggregation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e862	If the representative of Korsberg and the undersigned can agree on one thing, that costs are claims, we have come a little on the way. I would also think that the representative of Korsberg is concerned that the department cannot make a single amount in this case, not a single assessment, not a single consideration, not a single professional input or assessment – neither on the financial scale nor on the long-term impact of the case. The government has proposed this and has presented the issue to the Stortinget with a blindfold – when we see that claims from different organisations and different investigative inputs related to this issue can be distinguished so significantly. There should be an obvious problem that stops you and actually thinks about: What is the basis of what the Ministry – the Council of State and the Government – chooses in its proposal to the Stortinge to think about consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e869	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e872	Today, we are discussing proposals for amendments to the Energy Act in four areas relating to our common electricity network. The proposed changes are a follow-up to the Reiten Committee’s report ‘Better organised electricity network’ and an organisation for the implementation of the EU’s third electricity market package. Together, the proposals represent important changes that lay the basis for a forward-looking and climate-friendly energy system, and therefore I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber supports the legislative changes. Before I explain why we support the proposals, I allow myself a brief historical reflection. A little simplified, we can say that until 1990 the electricity supply in Norway was essentially just a matter of government. People got their power delivered by the local power plant, which was publicly owned. There was no competition between different companies to sell electricity to either households or businesses. At the same time, prosperity grew in Norwegian homes, and power consumption almost doubled from 1970 to 1990. Norway was well supplied with renewable energy after the large hydroelectric power build-up in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, but the need for power grid construction increased. In June 1990, Stortinget adopted the Energy Act, and electricity went from management to shopping. The law opened up a free market for the purchase and sale of electrical energy and thus also for an energy expansion more driven by the market and less by political decisions. The Energy Act already required power companies to distinguish between production and network activities. The deregulation of the power sector distinguished the physical supply from the purchase of electricity. According to Great Norwegian encyclopaedia, the Energy Act Norway placed the primary international focus on the liberalisation and release of electricity. With the new law, there were some structural changes and consolidations in the power industry, but it is still my claim that the Energy Act did not have its full effect until we arrived in the 2000s. Only then did the power market begin to function, and we are now on the threshold of a new change, a new age. The amendments to the Energy Act adopted here today are a natural extension of the deregulation in the 1990s and strengthen the interests of the consumer. Power is perhaps the most important infrastructure we have in today's modern society. We rely on power in the socket to almost everything we do in everyday life. Without a stable power supply, modern Norway stops up. In addition, we are in the middle of a green shift where renewable energy is an important factor in our success. Therefore, a well-functioning well-secured power supply network is critically important. There is little doubt that society as we know it today will change radically in the years to come. The energy sector is no exception. We are faced with a technological revolution the few know the scope of which. Evolution is faster than ever, and we see that this will have a dramatic effect on large parts of business in a number of ways. The power companies that are able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by these new technologies will have a significant advantage. We want to facilitate such a development. The basis for future power supplies is being created today. That is why we are now doing what we think is absolutely necessary changes to the Energy Act. In the context of the third electricity market package, we adapt the division of our electricity grid to harmonise with that of the EU countries. We're going from three to two web levels. What is now called central network is redefined into transmission networks. For the transmission network, ownership separation is required, which means that the transmission network will be operated and owned by the State network in the future. Which parts of the network to be defined as transmission networks are determined by the Ministry through individual decisions. Those decisions shall be based on network-based grounds and should be made by a neutral regulator. In this way, we ensure that the distinction between transmission and distribution networks is based on professionally sound reasons for the operation of the mains power grid. This is important, especially for those industrial enterprises that are large customers. The bill defines international connections, i.e. high-end subsea cables to our neighbouring countries, as transmission networks. The majority assume that foreign connections have a significant impact on the transmission network, but government parties also believe that other than State networks should be able to build and operate foreign connections in the future. The government has therefore sent a different amendment to the Energy Act at the hearing to allow such cables to be owned and operated by persons other than Statnet. In this context, I would like to stress that EU legislation allows for individual foreign connections to be owned by others than the transmission system operator, or the TSO, as it is called in the law. The majority, the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left therefore consider that the definition of the transmission system does not prevent individual foreign connections from being owned by other than State networks. As I said, the safe and good organisation of the mains is a prerequisite for a forward-looking and climate-friendly power system. The renewable society does not come about by itself – it actually needs to be built. In the near future, it's likely that many more of us will become so-called positive customers. This means that not only do we get electricity from our network company, but we can also sell surplus electricity from our own production back to the network company. In such a situation, we rely on the network company, which has a monopoly on operating networks in a particular area, to act neutrally and to ensure equal treatment for all those required to supply electricity in the network. Neutrality and transparency are becoming very important. We now come to the core of the disagreement between the majority and the minority in this matter. The operation of the mains network is a natural monopoly, and customers are not allowed to choose a network company. Since there is currently no requirement for a corporate and functional distinction between the operation of the mains power supply network and other activities in network companies with less than 100000 customers, there is the possibility of reducing costs to the monopoly activity. We believe that this cross-subsidy option indicates that customers need to be protected against unnecessary costs. We believe that close integration between network activity and activity related to the generation and placing on the market of electricity may impede an appropriate network structure and may result in higher network costs than is necessary. A corporate and functional distinction between networks and other activities helps to mitigate the disadvantages of integrated companies and will give increased attention to network activities. A sharp distinction, both in separate companies and with different people in government and management, I think will strengthen the network activity and raise awareness of the need for investment and upgrading the power grid. When we know that over the next ten years, the network industry is facing investments in new power grids and maintenance of over 100 billion. kr, it is important that it is invested properly. It is Right's view that today's organisation of the network is not forward-looking, with a combination of networks and other activities within the same energy company. If we are to ensure the best possible management of the mains network in the future, it is necessary that the network operate separately, and that energy companies wishing to operate with other activities keep this separate from the operation of the network. In the Committee's hearings and through meetings and written enquiries, we have received many input from the industry to this legislative change. The vast majority of those who are online customers, whether it's industry or business, are satisfied with the web as it is today, but they see that you can organize it in a slightly different way. The defenders of the status quo and the objectors of functional separation are the network companies and their owners who do not have such a distinction today. I can see that. Change is something most of us do not necessarily like, and concerns are about what this will mean for the company, and what costs it will entail, etc. To these, I would say that I understand the unrest, but for the Right, the concern for consumers' interests and for society's need for a well-organized electricity network is heavier. Many are also in favour of the proposed legislative changes. The NVE figures also show that the companies operating electricity networks alone have lower costs and are more profitable than integrated companies. One example of this is the merger of Fortum’s former distribution network activities in Eastfold, which has provided cost savings and improved delivery quality to customers. Finally, the amendments proposed here today constitute sensible steps to extend the work that started with the introduction of the new Energy Act in 1990. The changes are fully in line with the recommendations of the experts in the Reiten Committee, and they will equip our common grid for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e908	Much of what the representative said in his post, I agree, but there is something I strongly disagree with, and one of the things is that we can talk about the network companies and the network function that it has worked up to now, as if a lemper, for example. costs passed on to online customers. These kinds of statements I think are dramatizing and actually shooting far beyond the goal of what is reality. I think most people run their online companies in a good way. That was a comment. So to what I want to include in the line exchange with the representative Odd Henriksen, and that's the relationship to good framework conditions, good network services, equivalent services, etc. in the future for power-processing enterprises. I am amazed that the Right and Government parties are not voting in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV address in terms of an equivalent, non-discriminatory model for the SFHB companies. Why isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e915	In terms of what can be described as industrial tariffs -- that's really what we're talking about with these big businesses -- we had first of all one thing about this not too long ago, I think it was last autumn, where this theme was taken up for discussion. Enterprises using a lot of electricity currently have a tariff for industrial tariffs, those connected to the central network, and other enterprises connected to the current regional network also have good conditions for paying their electricity. If the tariffs are to be set by us in Stortinget, one could risk that this would be considered illegal farm support and that the tariffs we have today will be put to the test. We think it is important to feel that today's system is working well. The large industrial enterprises have good tariff conditions and they are justified by the value of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e922	I would first like to say that it is quite historyless to say that this is a natural extension of the Energy Act of 1990. It's not. The Energy Act and the changes we made in the 1990s were broad, well thought out processes. This is pushed through in the Stortinget with an overweight of three to four votes. This is not a broad and thorough process, and it goes far beyond what is natural in terms of the needs and wants of the energy supply. The representative said in his speech that this was a harmonisation with EU countries. Neither is it. That's exactly what we're not doing. We go much further than any EU country does. There is no EU country that will impose on the smaller power plants with less than 100 000 subscribers the requirements we are now making – the bureaucracy we are now imposing, the increased costs we are now imposing on important district actors across the country. My question is: how does it feel to the Right to impose important business life beyond all the districts of Norway increased costs and increased bureaucracy in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e931	When I talked about adapting to the third energy market package, it was the reference that we go from three to two grid levels. That's what was attached to that comment, and it's a harmonisation that we're now doing. When we get to the second question, it's like when we're going to look into the glass sphere and think about how we can best organize the mains power supply, it's like no changes that I've been on have been free of charge. The changes you make will always have a price. But we think that the costs this will bring will give consumers a better network, that will give them better network tariffs, and we think that in the long run this will be good for the power supply and for the customers, because they will eventually get lower network rentals. The most important thing for us is that those who pay the electricity bill pay the bill for the delivery they get. And we think it'll go down with the bill that's now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e938	I want to ask questions about the 40 powerful companies. The reason they have lower tariffs than others is that they have a stabilising effect on the network. It's not controversial. This means that non-discrimination between them will also not be disputed — and seen as State aid — in the EU system. The problem is that a change of location in the central or regional distribution networks has been made with slightly different historical reasons. That's why I have to ask the representative: Does Odd Henriksen think that today's system, where someone has a much lower tariff than other companies that have the same stabilising effect on the web, is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e943	If it was the case that individual industry companies had the same tariff, the answer could be simple. But that's actually not how it is. Individual enterprises have a tariff based on the value they give to the network, so that different enterprises can have different tariffs based on the way in which they stabilise the network and the operation of the network. Even if you have what you call an industrial tariff, it's not the same. It's not like Hydro on Karmøy has the same network rental as Elkem in Salten even though they're in the central network. We have differentiated tariffs because the network they have to pay is calculated by the value it has to stabilise the network, and the value they have for the network. It is not that there is one tariff for all industrial holdings here in Norway – wherever they are. What's different is that if someone is in the distribution system, and someone is in the transmission system, you have to have a small impact on those in the transmission system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e951	There's some people who have forgotten their glasses here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e956	It's me!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e961	Yes, I have about the same political view on this matter, so I might just be able to use them. What we're facing right now is really a very important thing. [[Laughter]] As many people have been involved, you have to invest in a new power grid and maintain the mains power grid for the next ten years for over 100 billion. kr. Much of the investment comes into the regional network and the distribution network. The government chose to record the Riten selection, which was reduced by the red-green government. It is essential to provide a good basis for the sustainable and cost-effective development of the power grid, security of supply and the power system. One of the proposals of the Reiten Committee was to introduce a corporate and functional distinction. We believe that this is a good proposal. Social separation implies that network activities and competitive activities must be distinguished into separate legal entities. Functional separation means that management cannot participate in both network activities and competitive activities and that the parent company cannot give instructions to the network activity on the day-to-day operation. There has been a topic that has been much highlighted by the Committee, and many have talked about high network rentals and low network rentals. I believe that for us, it is not a question of high or low, but really of getting the right price for the goods you buy. The establishment of a corporate and functional separation for all network undertakings entails some increased costs, in particular in the short term. Disposal costs include, inter alia: the establishment of a new corporate structure and the conclusion of agreements. Increased current costs may arise as a result of audits of different legal units, separate annual reports and additional reporting to the NVE. Then it is that not all the costs will necessarily be incurred by the network company and thus impact on the income framework and tariffs. Some of the costs could be incurred by activities other than the network activity, such as: the parent company, power turnover and power generation. So the representative of Aasland said that the government has gone into this matter of blindfolding in front of the eyes, because you can't provide any figures. I would just like to refer to a number of the questions raised by the Committee, which the Council of State has answered, and in particular the letter that came on 11 February. There's a very clear explanation why you can't provide exact figures on what this will cost. It is simply that the costs lie in the companies – and are protected in this way – and it would have been a strange process if these companies were to be exposed to very sensitive information. So I don't know if you've read it, didn't want to read it, or didn't understand what you've read. I think the claim that came from the rapporteur falls on his own unfairness. It is then that the Committee has also been given access to a report by THEMA Consulting Group, which estimates that the cost of introducing functional and corporate distinctions will amount to approx. 950 million. kr in present value. That figure is much lower than the Defo estimate of 4.6 billion. kr. The same theme also finds that there is a high potential for increased efficiency and lower costs in network activities through both structuring and other measures. The value of more efficient operation is estimated at a minimum of 4,1 billion. kr as current value over 10 years and potentially as high as 19 billion. kr. So it is clear that it has an enormous impact on consumers, what we are deciding on today, and consumers are what has been our main concern when we have dealt with this matter. That is also the basis of what the government has come up with. This is a good day for Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e980	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e984	It is nice to hear that, on the one hand, it is very difficult to estimate the costs and costs of such a legislative change as is being made here, but if you get a report confirming your own position, it is at least very easy to use it – as we hear in the debate by the representative Korsberg. What we have to ask ourselves is whether there is evidence of extensive cross-subsidisation that this bill on separation should prevent. We haven't seen anything like that. What we see, on the other hand, is that it is argued that this will lead to a structuring that is good for the industry. It is obvious that the right side of Norwegian policy seems to have few, large monopolies will undoubtedly operate much better than many small ones. Then I would like to ask the representative of the Progress Party, Øyvind Korsberg, whether he is comfortable with the fact that the state and the Stortinget are now to force down on the communities a bureaucratic, inappropriate and cost-effective organisation of a socially important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e991	There are always many reports you can use, and I think that applies to both sides of this case, as far as I have registered. To the question of whether there has been illegal cross-subsidisation, it has been recorded that there are network companies that may have been engaged in things other than necessarily networks, i.e. broadband, and we imagine that it is natural that there will be structural changes. What is crucial for us is not to take into account each network company in Norway, but it is actually to take care of consumers in Norway. These are the ones we have in the elevator, and I'm going to assume that the network companies are for consumers, not for the network company itself. So it is consumers we want to have a safe, good and reasonable cost framework on the web and that they get the flow they want. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1000	I must say that I fully agree with Mr Korsberg that what is important here is to protect both consumers and society's interests. But then I would like to ask the representative of Korsberg whether he has not received the requests that we, at least in the Workers' Party, have received, from local communities and from local politicians around the country, who are extremely concerned about how they and their regions will come out with the kind of model and organisation of the business that it is now bringing up with these legislative changes. These reactions come primarily from those who will benefit from the services of the network companies, not so much from the network companies themselves. But the network companies are publicly owned and therefore consider what they do to be a social task. It also goes back to all of the requests we've been given, where they show that the changes that the right-hand side now comes down to them will be demeaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1005	I will not say that we have received the same enquiries that the Workers' Party has received; I do not have access to the files of the Workers' Party, so I cannot respond to them. But we've got a lot of calls, including from the political team in the districts, and we're getting a lot of calls all year long from consumers, who are a little confused that the network rental has become so high that the network cost actually increases more than the electricity price. And one answer to get rid of the web costs is that you open up so you can get a better structure. We have not said that it should be a prohibition on public owned network companies; it does not appear anywhere. But we want it to be put up for a better structure, that you can get more robust companies to be able to meet the investments that come in the future, to ensure the right cost and operation of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1010	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1013	The power grid may have become our most important infrastructure. More and more of what we surround in our everyday lives requires a functioning power grid to work. Therefore, it is not very surprising that this case has created a lot of commitment. The power and network companies are corner stone companies in parts of the country, and it is understandable that many communities are skeptical of changes affecting these companies. Networking is a natural monopoly, which requires a clean-up service to customers and ensures that the network activity does not finance other areas of activity. At the same time, it is important that trust in companies is also maintained. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is right to demand a greater distance between monopoly activities and commercial activities than an accounting separation can offer. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the requirement for corporate separation. However, the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for functional separation is so radical that it requires extra caution. In particular, for the large number of small businesses, it would be a costly change. The Christian People's Party believes that one should be sensitive to the recordings that come from all parties, and that there are aspects to this proposal that are not sufficiently illuminated. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is right to investigate the social and economic consequences of imposing a functional distinction, regardless of its size. The Christian People's Party believes there are several good reasons to be cautious in this matter. The important role of network companies in districts is one of these. It is worrying if the functional separation requirement puts small companies in a situation where administrative costs increase so much that the company is unable to operate economically. In practice, this would be a forced restructuring of the industry. The Christian People's Party is not negative to sound restructuring, but the consequences here are so poorly explained that we cannot support this proposal. The proposal redefines the central network of transmission networks. Ownership separation is also required, a requirement that will be satisfied by the fact that it will be State networks that will operate the transmission network. The Christian People's Party supports this change. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that certain considerations need to be taken into account in this redefinition. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the Ministry's assessment should provide for exemptions for installations planned to be replaced by a new transmission network, unless the existing facilities have specific characteristics that are essential for the operation of the new transmission network. The Christian People's Party also considers that it is appropriate to use the Ministry's assessment that the transmission network includes installations for the transmission of electrical energy of at least 200 kV and installations of 132 kV with specific transmission characteristics of significant importance for the operation of these installations. This is important in order that the local network should not be forced to transfer ownership to the network they have built simply because it was classified as a central network at the time of the law’s accession. The Christian People's Party believes that ownership of the network should lie with the local network owners, unless there are clear transmission characteristics of this network. The Christian People's Party believes that the power-generating industry in Norway is important and that our renewable energy production is an important competitive advantage. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that a tariff model should be developed for these companies in which they are treated in a non-discriminatory and objective manner, irrespective of where in the network these companies are connected. This will provide a level playing field. The Christian People's Party believes this should be presented to the Stortinget in the upcoming industry announcement. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1030	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1033	We all believe that the mains power supply is an important part of society's infrastructure, and it's a public owned infrastructure. It was perhaps one of the most important things we did in the early 1990s when we liberalized the energy sector. We liberalized it, but we didn't privatize it, and I think many people in retrospect are glad that we didn't, say that there are probably also parties in this room that think it would have been an advantage if one could privatize the energy supply. It's good that we didn't. The infrastructure will be subject to significant investments in the years to come and, in parallel with the electricity infrastructure, many energy companies have spent time, energy and resources providing infrastructure for broadband fibre cables, and there have also been important societal investments. In the years ahead, energy supply will need to adapt to more varied renewable production. It's going to be important. It is going to mean that you have to focus on neutrality, and you have to focus on the fact that in the future you will not only have consumers who receive electricity from the grid, but you will also have consumers who supply electricity from your own renewable energy sources. It's going to mean changes, and there's changes that I'm convinced this industry is able to relate to and also contribute to the development of. Taking into account the comments in today's position, I think it is important to stress that all investigations so far show that we have a good electricity network in Norway, and we have a good industry. It works well. It's well powered, and there's no evidence of any major differences in the ability of small and larger companies to operate energy supply and power grids in a good way. Today, we are dealing with several changes to the Energy Act — some of them less controversial, others more controversial. The main point of conflict is the question of whether a law should impose a corporate and functional distinction on all network companies, regardless of their size. The centre party sees it as a drastic intervention in the ownership management of the companies. It will contribute to a requirement that goes far beyond the other country in Europe and far beyond what we are obliged to do in the context of EU legislation. The industry is already subject to strict regulations, including: through the control regulation and through the monitoring role of the NVE. Today, 8 of 148 companies have introduced a corporate and functional distinction. It is the largest, marine, while there are about 50 companies that have only introduced corporate divisions. We can imagine what a change it's going to bring about when it becomes a command for everyone. The centre party believes that imposing such a distinction, regardless of its size, would be bureaucratic and would be cost-effective, and there is no evidence of cross-subsidisation within the companies that impose such a requirement. Nor are there any studies showing the social and economic consequences of such a directive. It is simply a poorly supported proposal. The majority use time here in the hall today — obviously despite lack of evidence — to suspect the operators in an entire industry without being able to prove it in any way. It is worth noting that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left introduce a rule that really neither simplifies nor improves, but that actually intends to lead to mergers and more economies of scale. Thus, State orders must override the interests based on undocumented needs in order to be able to achieve structural change and mergers. The reality is that owners will no longer be free to optimise their business and to dispose of their resources as efficiently as possible. In other words, today’s efficient company is forced to operate inefficiently without an analysis of the consequences. The centre party believes that structural changes in the power industry must be made through voluntary processes, not as a result of new bureaucratic rules. Small and medium-sized enterprises are sound in relation to the task they are to perform and have access to both competence and capital. The riding committee was also clear that many of the smaller companies are efficient and solid, and that they represent good jobs across the country. We cannot see this proposal as anything but an unfortunate intervention in the ownership of companies, and here, as otherwise, the right parties use the state as a coercive means of achieving structural change. The centre party also considers that, by redefining the central network to the transmission system, the situation should not be such that, by decision of the State, one can effectively expropriate networks currently owned by regional energy companies. There must be purely professional reasons for defining the type of network and for installations planned to be replaced by a new transmission network, exceptions must be possible. We believe that Energy Norway was very clear in the Committee's hearing on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1056	As a society, we are going through a series of decisions to build the future low-emission society that we need, and on the left, that's the main reason why we are now in favour of – in this case – not just of social and functional separation. We're in a changing society where there's going to be big investments in the Norwegian network, but there's also a change where the production itself and those who are going to connect to this network will have different interests. As others have said here, there are several small power plants, we want a situation where there are plus houses, we want to see more solar panels, we have more and more electric cars or chargeable cars, it will be a development in the development of battery technology. It's hard today to see exactly how this is going to develop, but that we're facing a big change, there's no doubt about it. On the left hand side, we are not very concerned today that cross-subsidies are going on in small companies. It is clear that in an integrated company it opens up the possibility, and if it is going on, it will be unfortunate and will be able to impose unnecessary costs on society, but it is not crucial for the decision that we are going to take. The NVE also conducted a study on 126 companies in 2012. There were reports of 993 deviations. Many of these relate to companies where there are differences in the combination of networks and the sale of power – that is, there is a mix-up in social media. But none of this is crucial for the decision we are now going to take. What is crucial is that of course, a neutral network company is needed to the customer, but we are not least dependent on those who are going to bring power into that network in the future to ensure that they have a neutral network company. Because it is that the different power producers will have more different interests. Then we believe that it is right not only to go into a corporate division, which really all parties agree on, but also to take the last step, which ensures a functional separation, so that you get a situation where the network company has its own board, and that there are restrictions on who can be in the management of this company, up against the other companies in the group. However, it is important to stress that this does not, either in the future, restrict overall economic governance by the group that includes the network companies. This change we believe needs to have a slightly longer transitional arrangement than that put up in the matter from the Council of State. Here we propose a liberal transitional arrangement until 1 January 2021. It is important in this case that there is also an exception provision which allows the Ministry to grant exemptions for individual companies in special cases, even in the future. This is a change that ensures network neutrality, which provides a basis for a much more diverse connection with the network companies in the years ahead than we see today, and for the Left, it is important that we now also take this last step – also in order to create security and predictability in view of what will happen in the future. I would also like to stress that for the Left, it is important that the definition of the transmission network does not prevent individual foreign connections from being owned by other than Statnets. In the case of large consumers with a high useful life, I would also like to refer to the differentiated industrial tariffs referred to by Odd Henriksen, and also to the fact that there are challenges here with regard to ESA. Claims for equal tariffs will also have consequences for the other customers. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1076	The President will ask you to stick to the speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1081	In a previous case today, the Left would not be with the opposition about a proposal on consumption and stuff, because it was too poorly investigated. Therefore, they could not decide, and therefore they had to agree with the government. In the case we are dealing with now, the government is not able to document how much costs will increase. They say that costs will increase – at least the representative of Korsberg said so – but they cannot say how much costs will increase. They push the companies in front of them, but at the same time they doubt the calculations made by the industry. Government parties also suspect that the entire industry has been cross-subsidised, but they cannot prove that there has ever been cross-subsidisation. Nor have they analysed the social and economic consequences of this. When, earlier today, the Left was so concerned that things should be properly investigated, does the Left think that this is well-founded to impose on hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts increased costs and increased bureaucracy? Is this proposal well established?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1091	We are ready to make a decision on the fundamental issue of the need to ensure a clarification in terms of network neutrality. With regard to the consequences and costs, it is important for the Left that there be a longer transitional regime, so that there is better time to introduce the functional distinction. What we're looking at is the long-term change, that you're going to get different actors into the web. They could have different interests, and so it's important to us that we now also take the last step, which concerns neutrality. It is not essential that this be done immediately, and that is why we are giving an extended transitional arrangement, so that we have time to make the adjustments in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1098	It is a bit polite to sit and listen to the Left talk about this matter and about the need for state-level detailed regulation. The left is usually a free-thinking party, thinking that there should be minimum regulation, that one should facilitate business development, etc., and using skills and opportunities is something that the left in very many contexts talks about. Here it's the exact opposite that happens. It's not like it's a final sentence for what's now going on with neutrality. The final point would be an ownership distinction, but it does not argue for the left. However, detailing which people can – let me say – act where, it thinks the Left now is appropriate. I think that's very amazing. Is it the costs, the bureaucratic arrangements that lie there, that are needed to bring neutrality into place? Wouldn't a company distinction initially mean the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1107	No, this is precisely about freedom, and it is about the fact that the various actors who are going to have their production on the Internet in the future are going to be sure that they have a neutral actor. And then you have the fundamental distinction that makes the interests of the company and the power company different from the interests of the network company. Then it is important that these interests do not gather with the same person. That is to say, you have to have a manager and a board of directors based on what is then the responsibility of the network company and make their assessments based on it – just as the board and the management of the rest of the company will take their decisions on the basis of those interests. These may be different, and we therefore believe it is important that these are different people.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1114	As Ola Elvesuen argues, he strictly believes that the best thing would have been for these monopoly companies to remain under official control, not privatized, as at present, as happened in 1991. Then there had been the interests of society that had been at the bottom of the network structure. But that's not what I'm going to ask him, because what I'm going to ask him about is the following: This whole change is well documented that is going to lead to increased costs, for example. for a small company such as Stryn Energie, which has more than 4000 online customers and 21 employees. They estimate that at the moment they have to hire a new director and new people in the management, they will have increased costs for the individual power customer of perhaps between NOK 1500 and NOK 3000. Does the representative of Elvesuen agree that unless a large-scale centralisation of the network is achieved, costs for network customers will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1121	No, this is not a decision to promote centralisation. It's like you're saying, what's minimum to get the functional distinction is that you have your own director -- it doesn't really have to be an extra person -- and you have to have people on board. And I assume you're also rational in terms of the remuneration you give to government representatives. So that this can be handled within what is a normal so-called hump cost when you make a change, I'm pretty sure. We also have a liberal transitional period, so this is to be done in five years' time. So the change in itself involves a cost, but that this should lead to an increased network rental and increased costs in its totality, I think at all is not clear from this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1128	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1131	This matter we are dealing with now is based on the fact that we are going to implement EU policies in Norway. In most cases, in several of the things that lie here, we agree, as the rapporteur has explained well. When it comes to network sharing, it's essentially okay. There is, however, disagreement about the movement of some cables, which has been addressed both by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party earlier in the debate. There's a proposal that SV is behind. In addition, there is a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV where we believe that there should be a common tariff system. We believe that on the part of the government, a common tariff system should have been established for all powerful companies, regardless of whether they are in the regional networks or whether they are in the central network. The background for this is very clear: history has shown that moving businesses from one enterprise to another leads to great uncertainty and major changes in costs. It would make sense to ensure a unified system, which I am also fully convinced of had held in ESA. The main debate has been on the issue of fiscal and functional separation for smaller power companies. Here, the Left, the Right, the Advance Party and the Green Party are involved in more centralisation than is imposed on the EU and more bureaucracy than is imposed on the EU. So the fact that the Progress Party is the incremental network lease party is completely incomprehensible to me. Thus, a red tape is being carried out in each power company around it. I mentioned in my reply to Ola Elvesuen instead that a small power company with 21 employees, important employees in a district company with local anchoring, which has local knowledge that is good and important to take care of, is now told: You have to split the company much more than you have done – you have to split the company. You have to hire leaders at the levels that exist there. The companies themselves have collected reports showing that this would entail significant additional costs. There are significant additional costs based on speculation. The riding committee says that the possibility of cross-subsidisation – not proven cross-subsidisation, but the possibility of cross-subsidisation – is a good enough argument to do so. Well, I think you should rely on experience and facts, and if you want to impose extra bureaucracy, there should be a well-documented basis to do just that. So it's not. The consequence of this is that either it will be more expensive for the network companies around the whole country, or it will have a centralisation. I think that several of the parties that are behind this change should be clearly informed that what they want is centralization. Ola Elvesuen says, "No, there will be no centralization of this, and there will be no more expensive. No, it's fine. He believes that there is no basis for listening to all the people who have made all the recordings around the country? Even Øyvind Korsberg says that this is likely to be more expensive, unless efficiency gains are obtained. And how do you pick them up? Yes, by aggregation. Is it any place in this document and in the setting that the government wants to run larger regional network companies? No, it's not. Is it in the Committee's position that the Committee wishes to launch a centralisation? No, it's not. If you don't want to promote centralisation, then the consequence is increased network rental for the companies around the country. Had you even been so honest that you said, you know, we want to redraw the map, we want to have nine-ten online companies here in the country. We want a structure that is much, much larger. At least you'd put the cards on the table and be honest and say that's in the direction we want. But the consequence of this is that instead of contributing to increased costs or centralisation. I just want to end by saying that I think it is disappointing that the District-Left in this context has obviously not been addressed. So I'm going to end by saying something positive, and that's that we've got a majority for a comment that ensures a positive customer system, and that ensures the right of residence the possibility of a common arrangement. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] I would like to ask the Council of State if he can answer that in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1157	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1160	Let me start by saying that I think the rapporteur made a good statement on what this is all about, and until he went into the policy, I think it was a very good account. I also think that representatives Henriksen, Korsberg and Elvesuen have addressed this matter in a good and informative way. However, let me say that what we are dealing with first and foremost today is a customer reform. Around us, both in Norway and in Europe, the power systems are changing. Technology is changing, policy is changing, markets are changing. This is happening in Norway, and it is happening in Europe – a Europe with which we, in terms of energy policy and the power system, are more closely integrated. It is not only important that we respond to these changes by the authorities, but given the great upturn in efforts to reduce climate challenges, this is also something we need to facilitate, the production and use of more renewable energy is obviously also part of the response to the climate challenges. The network has two customer types. One customer type is the power customer, whether it's in industry, in business, or there are ordinary people in households. The other customer type that the transmission companies have is the power producers. One of the changes we see around us is that while one has never had a legal monopoly, but a de facto monopoly in a region on production, transmission and distribution of power, we now see that there is a greater diversity also on the producer side. So it is also an important element, even there it is important to protect against the exploitation of the monopoly situation. In fact, we need to facilitate a greater diversity of producers, not only industrial but also domestic producers. In the years ahead, you will invest in the order of 100 billion. kr in the transfer of power in Norway. It's in the form of upgrading networks that are already in use, it's not least also to set up new power capacities, i.e. new transmission capacity, but it's also to introduce the AMS, which will make our power systems smarter in the long term, so that we can pick up more values from the power systems and use energy better. As the representative Henriksen had in mind, this is about increasing the focus on this important network development. By distinguishing monopoly activities, we believe from the government that it will stimulate stronger investment in a timely manner, not only to facilitate the increased use of renewable energy but also to facilitate the increased production of renewable energy. This is the consideration behind our proposal. So to the districts: the lowest possible network rental, i.e., being able to use the power at the lowest possible cost, is of course an advantage everywhere, for industry and business everywhere, but the advantage is the biggest in the districts. It is in the districts, that is, outside the more densely built, central struts of the country, that the network is the tallest and therefore puts the biggest damper on food development and growth. I have never hidden the fact that this proposal will also lead to more mergers, and I have always said that I believe that is a lucky side-effect, but that is not the aim of the proposal. Then I want to say that I'm happy that we have a significant majority in the Storting today for corporate separation. Some of these costs are pointed out by the corporate distinction, while other parts of the costs you point to come from the functional distinction. What I see forgotten in the debate on costs here is that there are also significant revenues on the other side. These are big, complex issues, which individual companies know most about how to deal with in practice. However, we have informed Stortinget about the NVE's 28/2015 report on the development of key figures for network companies with a focus on network tariffs in one of our letters to the Committee on this matter, so it explains in depth that it is several more cost-effective to operate functionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1179	I don't know if Councillor Lien remembers October 16th, 2013? It was when he stood up at the Castle Square as the newly appointed oil and energy minister, and certainly backed up behind one of the Mantras of the Advance Party, precisely that one should eliminate inappropriate laws, and one should significantly reduce bureaucracy. Now, the Council of State goes against the mantra; it increases red tape, and it introduces inappropriate legislation for the smallest network companies through a legal requirement for functional separation — and it has not cost-calculated it at all, nor in any way analysed the long-term effects of the bill. Is it not just the kind of behaviour that the Council of State is now exhibiting, which the government has told them to work hard on, to remove bureaucracy, stupid legislative proposals, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1186	What surprises me in this matter – until today, I almost have to say – is the Workers' Party and the SV's unwillingness to participate in a matter that will obviously facilitate the building of more sustainable energy systems in Norway, which I thought was the Workers' Party and SV for. What has surprised me today is the Workers' Party and SV's touching care for the free market. But this is not a free market. Where the production of power and the sale of power is a free and deregulated market, network activity is not a free and open market. It is in its nature – and it will remain in the foreseeable future – a monopoly activity. It is therefore necessary for the State to regulate this market and to provide for greater and more freer leeway for the market, both on the consumer side and on the manufacturer's side. That is what we have done with today's legislative decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1193	It is true that the government and the majority of the population are doing something more than regulating the market and protecting monopoly activities. One introduces inappropriate laws, that's what one does through the functional distinction. Going down and steering the details which people are going to do what in the different energy companies seem completely meaningless to me. And there must be just some of the legislative proposals that the Progress Party had in its head when they talked about inappropriate laws in this country. So now they're trying to introduce it themselves. There is no one who opposes that we should have good control, good regulation and significant supervision of the monopoly activities in this country, whether they are large or small – just so it is underlined. However, the Minister of Oil and Energy believes that the functional distinction is crucial in this matter, because it is most under attack, which is totally inappropriate. Does he think that is why a person gets better legislation on the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1202	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Workers' Party supports the company division today. Then you can ask questions about whether that would have happened if we hadn't promoted this proposition. Anyway, I'm really happy about that. The representative of Aasland calls this proposal'measurable', but I heard that he was making a commitment on behalf of the power-generating industry. Among the many who support this proposal by the government are Norsk Hydro ASA, Mo Industripark, Norsk Industri, Elkem, Celsa Armeringssteel, Herøya Nett AS, NHO – among others. So I believe that the documentation presented by the NVE, the Productivity Commission and the Reiten Committee points out that the combination of company and functional separation provides a number of improvements in the efficiency of operation and maintenance of the force.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1211	The Christian People's Party has not said no to a functional distinction, but in this round we do not support it either, but we ask the government to investigate the economic and social consequences of such a distinction. This proposal does not receive a majority, but my question will then be: Will the government nevertheless follow up on these costs and, if necessary, come back with information about this to the Stortinget, if the Stortinget so requests?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1216	I can confirm that both the authorities in general and not least the NVE are involved in the development of the network costs, and part of the NVE’s business is to ensure that the network costs do not evolve in the wrong direction, but vice versa are kept at a fair and reasonable level. It's part of the business that the authorities are already doing, and of course we will continue to do so in the future. This is also largely publicly available information, which can be found on the NVE website.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1221	It is a paradox that the Progress Party in the government spends time and effort proposing a change in the law that increases bureaucracy and gives a direct state order in new matters. I thought there might be other things the Progress Party was going to use its government rule on. However, it is also quite alarming that the Council of State is pushing around with allegations of network rental, costs and savings, which cannot be documented. There is some of the really eye-catching thing about this matter, how little the ministry is able to document the effects and results of the proposed legislative change. Governments opened their posts talking about the world around us. When this is a matter of state imposition, new regulations, new bureaucracy, and no evidence of the benefits, why could the Council of State and the Norwegian Government not have applied the same line as the EU, namely to impose new rules on companies with fewer than 100,000 customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1228	The representative Arnstad asked me if we should not follow the EU, I believe on the contrary that we as Norwegian authorities have a separate responsibility to go ahead of the EU. I believe that this is a sensible proposal that will in the long run reduce the costs of operating the network, which will benefit both the owners and users of the network – producers and consumers are in this way in the same boat. If we go back to NVE's report No. 28, on the development of key figures for network companies, it appears that the companies organised by functional and corporate separation have a lower cost of operating the network. Then I have explained why the Progress Party believes it is important to regulate a monopoly part of a market. It's good to remember on the occasion that the Central Party Ola Borten Moe put down the Reiten Committee, which was led by a former central party council, and which is one of those who have recommended this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1237	It is always just as funny when EU citizens are going to try to make a point that the centre party is against the EU, and that is why we should go ahead. No, the Central Party will not go ahead with rules that are state-enforced, bureaucratic and that increase the cost of important business throughout Norway. So we don't want to do that. And then we actually think that one can use the opportunity not to do so, as the EU has done – the EU countries have not introduced this for companies under 100,000 subscribers, and that freedom we can also avail ourselves of. It is quite right that we reduced the Reiten Committee, and the Reiten Committee in fact says that there is no significant difference between the smaller and larger companies in terms of efficient operation, and they also say that the Norwegian grid is solid and well operated today compared to most countries around us. So the question remains: why should we impose a requirement on the small businesses that are so burdensome, when there is no other country in Europe that has introduced it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1246	Now I was called an EU trailer, and I – should say – would have asked myself. But I am concerned about Europe, we have important customer groups in Europe, and I have great faith in a closer integration of the Norwegian power system into the European power system. I'm not a member of the European Union. So to the question from Arnstad. It is quite right that there are very many of the small companies that operate very well, clearly, some of the very best driven companies in Norway are among the small companies, but on the other side of that scale there are some of the worst, the least efficient driven companies, which are also among the small companies. That's what I've been trying to be clear all along. But this is not a reform for Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. This is probably a reform primarily for the regions, the districts, for which the representative Arnstad otherwise burns so heavily – that is where the effect of this will be most positive both for new producers and for consumers in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1253	A majority on the Stortinget and a majority on the Committee – I quote from the comments – point out that: «multiple and multi-households, residential and commercial enterprises will be able to become positive customers in the future; [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘The majority believe that the Stortinget should ask the government to facilitate this and ensure that network operators are required to offer positive customer subscriptions.’ Furthermore, the majority of the ‘housing companies are in a special position because they can make investments in renewable production jointly’. [[...]] I live in a housing company myself. We've received grants from Oslo City. And on the other hand, ‘However, the profitability will be impaired if they are forced to supply online and sell back to their own residents, instead of being given the opportunity to have common measurements in the housing company and thus only reduce the need for electricity from the network. The majority therefore believe that it is essential that housing companies be guaranteed the right to establish joint-measurers that add customers to ensure the profitable roll-out of larger distributed renewable electricity production.’» How will the Council of State follow up this majority remark from the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1281	Let me start by saying that something that I have talked about almost every single time I have spoken today is that part of this reform is about enabling the network companies to meet new types of manufacturers, both industrial manufacturers and the type of producers that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås here points to. Of course, in the development of our power system, it is important to facilitate this kind of new generation of power while at the same time ensuring that the collective solutions, the system as a whole, and then the government is also concerned that each consumer should be able to relate to his own consumption, be able to control his own consumption. We know that has a great effect on how the consumption adapts to the power system. Then I see that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is eager to get an answer to the specific question. Now, of course, we will have to follow up in the department in the future and inform the Storting about it in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1290	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1293	Networking is an important part of a comprehensive energy policy, which has been highlighted so far in this debate. It is a monopoly business, and there is a broad consensus here that this must be regulated in order to ensure both the supply to customers and the distribution of power from producers, to ensure that we have at all times the security of supply that a modern society needs, and to ensure that these services are provided at the lowest cost. The production and distribution of power has been gradually expanded in this country. Local politicians have taken responsibility and formed companies that have secured the electricity supply to the inhabitants and value creation from power generation. The Council of State expressed an astonishment at the Workers' Party's touching concern for the free business and the small economic operators. But I can inform him that our care in this matter is primarily about caring for public, localised tools for social development. We have a network company structure that reflects the fact that this has been expanded from below through the responsible municipal politicians that I mentioned earlier. We are facing major changes in both the consumption, production and distribution of electricity. The right-hand side expresses concern that the small companies will not be able to cope with this development. But is now that right? It's really very little that points out, given what we've been presented with evidence of these things. We have a public ownership of this infrastructure. It is the locally elected representatives who, through the boards, govern these companies. They look at the needs of our society. They put the company to work to meet those needs. It's not like the changes are coming up all the time. This will come gradually, and I am absolutely sure that our local politicians who sit on the boards of these companies will see these needs and act accordingly. There is no evidence of a particularly large shortage of capital in the industry in general. Nor has it been demonstrated that the size of the network company is essential for the cost of operating per metre of network. Are we, then, blindly believing that large monopolies are better than small ones, to force them through a costly and unwanted structure? I have faith that the wit is evenly distributed in this country. I believe that the individual actors in the industry are both up-to-date on what the future will bring in their region, and that they will find, according to their own needs and the needs of society, good ways to operate and organise their activities. This is how our well-functioning network – and network structure and corporate structure – has been developed until today. The right-hand side now is to force on the industry an inappropriate, bureaucratic and cost-effective organisation of the business. In the case of inter-territorial connections, the right-hand side is not concerned with keeping power producers out of the system. Today, we have a well-founded ban on the construction, ownership and operation of inter-territorial connections other than Statkraft. This will change the right-hand side. Why? It's very hard to get a very clear understanding of. But what we know is that it's the big power companies that want a better price for their power abroad, which are the drivers of extra inter-national connections. We also know that the inter-territorial connections cost consumers a lot through online rental. In sum, the changes in the laws made by the majority today appear to be a pure arrangement for the major players in the energy industry to be even greater now through more or less forced structuring. It's good news for them, but it's bad news for society, and it's bad news for customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1314	In this case, the majority is in favour of requiring both a corporate and a functional distinction between network activities and other activities. This is supported by a number of hearing bodies. Those who support the proposal highlight, inter alia: that it will ensure neutrality between monopoly activities and competitive activities, including the prevention of cross-subsidisation and distortions of competition, and thus may result in lower and more appropriate network tariffs for customers. The NVE believes that it is essential to introduce requirements for both functional and corporate separation. The NVE claims that this will contribute to more efficient operation, development and exploitation of the network by facilitating structural changes that allow economies of scale to be exploited, by increasing attention to efficiency in network activities and by reducing the potential to burden network activities on costs associated with competitive activities. The riding committee also pointed out that companies making their decisions on the basis of maximum rational network operation and development will serve both power producers and power customers best. It is precisely the consumer perspective that has been one of the most important arguments that the majority now advocates a functional distinction between companies. Overall, larger network carriers have had lower network leases than the smaller ones. Today's Address Book provides a good overview of web rentals in Trøndelag. This shows that TronderEnergi Nett, as the largest and cheapest company, has a network lease of NOK 4000 lower for 20000 kWh than, for example, Kvikne-Rennebu Kraftlag. The electricity transmission market is a natural monopoly. Therefore, we believe that the national authorities have the task of facilitating the most rational operation, and that the consumer pays only for the goods purchased, namely the supply of electricity. We also know that companies that have a corporate and functional separation have lower operating and maintenance costs for each kilometre of built-up networks, even when it is controlled for size and location. In addition, we see that average dividends to owners are higher in companies with distinctions. If we are to succeed in this country's renewable effort, we are also completely dependent on the fair delivery of its electricity to new power producers. It is easy to imagine that a company that owns both networks and delivers power will favour its own power generation, and that it can become more difficult for, for example: plus customers to get power delivered online. The majority have chosen not to impose reception obligations on the plus customers, as we see that part of the discussion as a natural part of the energy message that comes later. Since February this year, the NVE has granted a general exemption that makes it easier to become a positive customer. The scheme depends on joint agreement between the network operator and the supplier. In the debate on the development of wind farms, there have been discussions on the costs of expanding networks and power generation. We choose to claim that these discussions will be easier if not the same company will both produce power and be responsible for network operation. Greater efforts on renewable energy production will require new investments or the upgrading of existing networks in several locations. We believe that fewer and larger companies will have better access to capital through, for example. loans in the bond market, and have better access to the skills to develop companies for the future. In addition, we believe that larger companies will improve security of supply and increase robustness in the supply of power, which is also important for industry, business and new, large power customers, such as SMEs. in the transport sector. With these changes in the Energy Act, we believe that we are creating a more robust and transparent power sector, with greater readiness to tackle a wetter and wilder climate. We are helping to achieve the objectives of a more renewable society and to make use of the technological solutions of the future for both the big society, people and business. These legislative changes are essential for the green shift and to equip Norway to achieve its objectives in the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1333	Once again, the blue government is given the opportunity to tighten up the requirement for a corporate and functional separation of power companies. The last time they tried was in 2005, but they did not succeed because of the government change. At that time, the EU’s second energy market package was linked to the regulation of network activities that were being processed. As in 2005, the EU has not made a new distinction. Last evaluated, Norway assessed a special Norse limit of 20,000 online customers and secondary 10000 online customers. However, the EU minimum requirements on corporate and functional separation for all over 100,000 online customers are being met. Today, the seven largest companies in Norway have over 100,000 customers and have functional and corporate distinctions. 34 companies have chosen to make a company distinction, while all 144 network companies are required to separate accounts. This means that we are currently operating in line with EU requirements and have a system that captures the fact that there is no cross-subsidisation. What the government wants now is to separate all of these companies into their own ASs. So, in addition to the company division, you want a functional distinction. The State and the NVE believe that the network companies operate some kind of subsidisation of these other companies, but such cross-subsidisation is not legal and would have been quickly discovered by both auditors and accountants. In Europe, as I said, functional separation has been required for companies with over 100,000 customers. In Norway, therefore, we need to impose stricter requirements than in the EU. The Labour Party shares the views expressed in the consultation from many that a functional distinction would be a bureaucratic, inappropriate and costly organisation of the business. In addition, this is an intervention in the right of the owner to manage his own business. There are no economic or social investigations as the basis for the amendment of the law. Nor is there any justification that the monopoly function is currently subject to cross-subsidisation or that costs are not related to the network operation itself. A functional distinction involves having one's own administration with one's own executive director, board of directors, audit, etc. This costs, it weakens ownership and increases bureaucracy. It is also supported by the proposition, which states that in the long term the overall benefit of the measure is expected to exceed costs — in the long term. Why is the government and the left so hard on functional separation also for network companies that have less than 100000 network customers? I suspect that you want the same thing as in the municipal reform: a few large ones. The proposal is an expensive proposal, it is a bad one, and it is actually not a district friendly one, but a district hostile one. The government is trying to repair something that is not damaged. Today’s model ensures good preparedness and value creation also in the districts. The proposal threatens local ownership in the energy sector. The knowledge that currently provides good security of supply is weakened and communities lose an important development partner. This proposal could lead to large-scale centralisation of jobs, increased costs for customers, more red tape and poorer preparedness and security of supply in districts. I hear the minister says something different, but here we are at least very disagreeable. I am amazed that the Right and Left, who want to be the company's friend, also do not support proposal No. 1 from the minority, where equal treatment is proposed for all power-generating enterprises, so-called SFHB companies, but there is still time to change before voting tonight. I also see that no one has supported the Workers' Party's proposal No. 3, where the government is asked to ensure that industrial enterprises currently connected to the central network do not change the tariff model as a result of the conversion of the central network. This is a very important matter, and it could have major consequences for individual companies, and that was not the purpose of this proposal? Therefore, everyone should consider voting in favour of this proposal tonight. I had also hoped that industrial parks with their own network could have been exempted. I see that it is still opening up through the exemption, and I hope that the Ministry and the Council of State will use this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1361	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1364	There's a lot that amazes me with this government. We are looking at a case in point where the Right and Advance Party are more and more centralizing in our country. The Government's proposal for the income system shall force the district municipalities to merge. Later today, we are going to deal with the hospital plan, which also spreads uncertainty in the districts. In the case we are dealing with now, it is the local energy companies and communities that are affected. The Government believes that the introduction of a complete corporate and functional distinction between energy companies should prevent cross-subsidisation, provide cheaper network rentals for customers and improve power supply. These reasons have been rejected by large sections of the professional community and by the owners of small and medium-sized energy companies. There is nothing to suggest that small and medium-sized energy companies charge the network part with costs from other parts of the business, on the contrary, energy companies can point to very tidy accounting. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that the introduction of a functional distinction will involve substantial additional costs, unnecessary and costly bureaucracy and inefficient use of energy companies’ resources. Increased costs in network companies will increase network rental for district customers – not cheaper, as the government claims. After a corporate and functional separation has been implemented, there will be a large pooling pressure on all the small and medium-sized broadcasters. A large network company will pursue an offensive buying-in policy that will weaken both local ownership and regional power supplies. Norway is, as we know, a land under control. In the hurricane after the hurricane, we have seen the value of local energy companies and local presence in the event of a power failure. If we only have large network companies, the most densely populated areas will be given priority first – due to the costs of the KILE, or the compensation requirements – before priority is given to the districts. Once again, the districts are losing. No, the government's arguments for the law changes are weak and poorly justified. In my opinion, the arguments are subservient. The aim is a large-scale centralisation of the network companies. Finally, I am surprised that the Left supports the proposal. Despite the fact that the chairman of the Committee has been on an e-work tour and gained insight into the consequences, despite massive protests from district representatives in his own party, and despite a strong rapporteur's uprising, Left chooses to support the government. It's going to be interesting to follow forward to see what left hand gets in exchange to go in for something they obviously should be opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1381	The debate is well on the way to the end, and at least one has been told what you think and think about it. I have to start by saying that I think the energy companies around the country have served society in a very good way. They're doing it today, and I'm absolutely convinced that they're going to do it in the future, too. So it's been focused, especially from the Council of State in the debate here, that we must now enable the web to meet new production and new times. Then my question is, is it right to increase red tape and impose more costs on companies? I don't think so, I think it's going wrong just to meet new times and not least new production in an active way. If it was as required as the Minister for Oil and Energy expresses through his statement, then a question has to be asked: why did he spend two and a half years promoting the bill that is argued for is then required to be put in place? And if this was a consumer issue, where it was the online customers and the consideration of new production that was the basis of the bill, why doesn't he go to the heart of the problem of new production and the relationship with online customers, which is that new production initially imposes relatively high costs on online customers where production is? Because that's the reality of the system that's made in relation to this, but he doesn't choose to take up or discuss it. There are loose claims, there are missing facts in the basis of the legislative changes, and especially related to the functional distinction, where we – let's say – use something that we think is inappropriate for the very largest companies, to include the very least. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The second is that in the legislative proposal as it now exists and as proposed by the majority of the Stortinget, the Ministry has free powers through the amendment of the law to regulate how the functional distinction should actually be ex post, free powers to govern the network companies in detail and the functional distinction. I think the oil and energy minister with his details might want to use it. The third and last is that someone who has talked so much about the need for conversion and new value creation in this country, so until those degrees reject the need for equivalent and good framework conditions, not least for power-generating industries. I think what's left after this debate is going to be increased bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1396	There was a reference here to what the left should do. It is true that I have visited several power companies, whether it has been in Drangedal, in Hammerfest, in Nordkapp or in Alta, and we have had many visits from Bømlo and elsewhere, and of course there are many other actors who have made a contribution to the case. And there are very many well-run, good companies in Norway. This decision is not about the fact that something is wrong. It's about preparing for the change that we think both will and should come, because we're going to develop a smart network, and we're going to develop a renewable industry that will get a lot more players into the future network companies. That's why we think it's right now to take the step not only to a corporate division, but also to a functional division, so that you can separate the different interests that lie there. A board of a network company would then be able to make its assessments only on the basis of the mission of the network company and not on the basis of the overall task of the entire company. I think this is right to do, but it is also right to give companies good time to make that change. That is why the proposal states that this should only be implemented on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1405	There are many surprises in today's debate. Now I last heard from the representative of Aasland that the government should have presented this earlier than we did. I would like to remind you that we decided quite early that we should not put down the work of the Reiten-committee already started. They delivered their report in 2014, and we presented this bill in 2015. When you call this solving claims about costs, I want to point out that it is not just the NVE that is the professional authority in this area, and that is very clear that this is a sensible approach. Strong empirical evidence shows that the companies organised in this way have significantly lower costs of operating and maintaining the network – values that benefit both customers and owners. So it's also the way that the Productivity Commission, in addition to the Rising Committee, has pointed out that this is a reasonable grip. In addition, this proposal has been supported by many red-green counties. Troms, Nordland, Nord-Trøndelag, Oslo and Bergen municipalities and county municipalities support this bill. It is, at my discretion, something more than solving claims that lie behind the support of red-green counties and municipalities for this proposal. To the representative Juvik, I would like to say that in his own region, Red-Lurøy Kraftlag has just been part of a merger. The customers, the voters, there's hopefully not so many of them, Juvik's voters, have saved $6,000 to $8,000 a year in online rent, based on the grip done in that region. When it comes to the issue of companies, industrial enterprises, with a lot of consumption and a lot of use time, which many people have been in, I think the representative Henriksen explained those things in a good way. There is reason to point out that many power-driven companies have very good systems for network costs in this country. Many are in the central network, but many have lower network levels already today. The reason why this is in line with Norwegian and European competition networks is that the tariff is set in response to the utility of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1418	Firstly, in the case of power-generating industrial enterprises, it is quite obvious that regional networks determine the tariffs and costs of the enterprises associated with the regional network in which they are located. It is not obvious that the goods associated with the central network are transferred to the regional network. It is decided by regional networks which emphasise the importance of power-generating industrial enterprises in the regional network. I'm worried that the government and the government don't want to do anything about it, because if there's something the government should do, it's getting more involved in the labour market situation and the growth potential that can lie, for example. in the industry around the country. When the Minister of Industry is talking about reindustrialisation, it must be wondered whether it is a good idea to start creating more equivalent and better framework conditions, not least for the industry to be reindustrialised. But there is little initiative and lack of action from today's government. The Council of State now says that this is a sensible approach that will mean significantly lower costs, with a reference to the fact that there will be more efficiency. So there will be no direct lower costs for the operation of the network, but there are more – and then he talks about mergers as a basis. That's the basis. When he refers to the fact that the representative Juvik would save money, it is because one allocates the costs to several customers. It is not because the network is automatically more efficiently driven by the change of law that is taking place here. So then, the motivation for the legal basis – and the argument used – is that a person actually wants structuralisation. But why doesn't the government say that? Why don't you write that down as a basis for the billing proposal, and why don't you follow it up in other areas? So it's not what you choose to do, but to create an inappropriate code that leads to increased bureaucracy is the mantra of this government. This is not only happening in this area, but in most of society: increased red tape and inappropriate regulation are becoming tone-setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1430	Then they got the cats out of the bag. The answer from the Council of State was what the representative of Terje Aasland just said in his statement, namely that the purpose of this is to get fewer companies, i.e. larger network companies, and in that way have more to share them, and then you have to force them to do so with this requirement of functional separation. That's exactly what happened to Rødøy-Lurøy. It was not like someone came from above and forced them to join forces. No, they chose it themselves. They can do that tomorrow, too, if we don't change the law today. They can do that in a year, too, if we don't change the law today. This is the significant difference. But here you're going to do a grip that's the same thing you do in the community reform, which is used as an example, by using a whip to get it done. I have nothing against the fact that there may be fewer and larger companies, if appropriate. It will also happen in the future. But there's a difference between whether the companies, by the owners, decide this on their own, or whether they're forced to do it. It doesn't get cheaper by itself, just by breaking up a company. There will be double costs in some areas. That's why it's the same thing as the proposition on page 25: «In the long term, the overall benefit of the measure is expected to exceed the costs.» Then you say in plain words that it will cost more, but that in the long term you might expect it to be cheaper. So that was a bad example, I have to say. I could rather imagine that the Council of State had taken the time to comment on why one would not go for the two good proposals that are in the committee's position. This also applies to those lots which are not included in them. These are important things that – I'm going to be careful to say that – can have major consequences for some industrial enterprises, if you don't follow what's said. Unfortunately, I am not allowed to attend the vote tonight, because I am going to fly to Helgeland and attend a meeting there, but with regard to the proposals in the vote that are from the minority, I would draw the representatives' attention to proposal No. 3 by the Labour Party, and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Read the two suggestions! There's still time to decide, before there's going to be voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1458	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1465	The proposal we are about to consider is a proposal by Mr N. Skjelstad, Mr Breivik, Mr Farstad and Mr Nybø on energy efficiency improvement on a Norwegian base. I want to explain a little bit about what's in the position, and then I expect the other parties that are in the committee and are in the room here will explain their primary views. The Committee's emphasis is that environmental considerations and energy-efficient solutions have been given great importance to the construction of Norwegian petroleum activities. There are strong instruments to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the extraction of petroleum on Norwegian soil. The instruments used motivate companies to limit emissions. Just to take a few examples over time: from 1991 there has been a CO2 tax on the socket. Petroleum activities were included in the quota system in 2008, in addition to the fact that the activity was subject to a CO2 tax. There has never been a permit for the incineration of excess gas, and I would also like to point out that since 1997, there has been a requirement to provide an overview of the amount of energy and the costs of using power from land, rather than gas turbines, for all new developments. Enova has programmes to support energy management and technology development that can reduce energy demand and greenhouse gas emissions both for industry and for petroleum activities. Here, there has been a strong focus from the authorities and from the Stortinget since the dawn of time on efficiency and emissions. As the situation is, I think you need to think a little bit about the current situation of oil and gas industries, that there is a demanding time in relation to what it has been in the past, with cost cuts, project delays and reduced activity in development, modification and maintenance, etc., which has led to cancellations and lay-offs that may have particularly affected the supplier industry. I think that's a picture you also have to bring with you. The oil price we have today has reduced the interest in exploration, and a significant number of ships and rigs are in stock. You have to take that picture, and maybe especially if you're in the West, it should be pretty high. It's a demanding time, but there's also light in sight in that way. I would also like to point out that the industry itself is doing a great deal to focus on the questions raised in the proposal for a representative, among others. through the Energy Efficiency Improvement Project, called ‘Veikart 2050’, through the Konkraft Cooperation Forum. It's important. The cooperation with Enova is also important, and in many ways that the majority of the Committee also points out. In conclusion, I would like to point out that since the petroleum activity is covered by the European ETS, national measures will not affect total greenhouse gas emissions in the EU and the EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1488	It is that the petroleum industry will be the main industry for Norway for many decades to come. It's our biggest industry, measured in both jobs and contributions to the economy. So far we've actually produced less than half of the estimated resources that we have. We've only begun to explore our northernmost base. We also know that it's going to be a market for Norwegian oil and gas for decades to come. Europe needs Norwegian gas, most recently expressed very clearly by the EU Energy Commissioner. If we look at the production/sales of cars in the world, we know that there are combustion engines that go in and will go for many years yet, and those that are and have been sold are going to roll for many years, so we're still going to get a lot of oil consumption worldwide. We also know that with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals objectives, energy use in the world will increase sharply in the context of the fight against poverty. At the same time, we have an agreement that was concluded in Paris on greenhouse gas reduction, with the aim of reducing global temperature increase to between 1.5 and 2 degrees. This means that much needs to be done in terms of energy efficiency improvement, in terms of energy conversion, in order to achieve that objective. There are different solutions around the world to this problem. Some countries can cut coal-fired power stations and reduce emissions very far, and different instruments can be used. In Norway, we have chosen to provide greenhouse gas emissions with a cost. We have CO2 tax from 1991. We are, as the rapporteur pointed out, part of the European ETS quota market. The Norwegian base and oil industry are probably the industry with the largest emissions per day. This was dealt with in the context of the 2012 climate agreement, where the CO2 tax was increased quite so strongly to compensate for the fact that we saw that the allowances prices in the ETS did not have the development we expected. Then a principle was put in place that it was at this level that one should lie down. If the allowance price increases, the fees can be regulated – and vice versa. We don't know how the allowance system and prices will behave in the future. We don't even know if we have a quota system in the future. There are discussions around this. What is important then for us to be able to achieve sustainable low-carbon emissions from the petroleum industry is that we get to a technological development. Today, at European level, we see that the quota system delivers the emissions cuts, but they do not deliver the necessary technological developments. In the case of the Workers' Party, the price of emissions is the main instrument, but positive instruments must be added to ensure that the necessary speed and scale of technological development are achieved. I am very happy to see that the industry itself takes responsibility for this on the base. We see that Statoil, which had a target of 800,000 tonnes cut by 2020, is now at the forefront of achieving this. They've set new targets, they've increased the targets by 50 pst, and they've reached the target of 1.2 million tons. We also see that on the Norwegian base we have achieved a very low emission rate compared to what is the international average. Much of it can be attributed to geology, the ban on torching and the fact that we have applied force from countries, but I believe that the CO2 tax and quotas are what will at least in the future drive this. However, we believe that the work on technology development that the industry itself is doing needs to be complemented, and we believe that it should be launched a dedicated technology development programme that brings low emissions to the base. That's our solution into this. We do not want to go along with what the representatives include in the proposal. We think it is affordable to put forward good ideas to increase activity in this round. We believe that Enova's activity on the base today can be further developed. We also believe that modification and maintenance can be further developed, and that we will achieve the objectives in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1516	Norwegian oil and gas industries are the most environmentally friendly in the world. The average greenhouse gas emissions per unit of output are about half of the international level. We are at the forefront of technology development in environmental technologies, and Statoil is the world leader in carbon capture in its field at Sleipner and Snow White. Environmental considerations and energy-efficient solutions have been given great importance in building up petroleum activities in this country. Petroleum activities are included in the allowance system and subject to a CO2 tax. As was said here, the fee was increased in 2013, as a result of the climate notification. As a result, Norway already has the most expensive oil and gas industry in the world. Times in the petroleum industry now require predictable and stable framework conditions. New taxes and charges are not what the industry needs. On the other hand, industry needs a continued offensive focus on research and development and good framework conditions. We're very happy that it seems to be a broad majority to keep standing on that line. The industry itself is clear that it is working towards a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly way of operating its production. This was last repeated during an oil industry policy seminar by the group director of Statoil, Eldar Sétre. The Seed Fund, ProVenture Seed in Trondheim, harvested criticism when in January they announced that they would bet half a billion on petroleum technology. Several thought that it was wrong to bet on technology in a period of decline, but it is precisely in difficult times that we have to bet on developing industries. History has shown that it is in bad times the pace of innovation is increasing, as the incentive for change and development is the greatest. The most cost-effective technologies are emerging and the competitiveness of Norwegian business is increasing. This shows that there is a commitment to research and development, which is the best way to make industry more energy efficient and reduce emissions. There is reason to recall that petroleum research was significantly strengthened in the state budget for the current year. Enova has programmes to support energy management and technology development that can reduce energy needs and greenhouse gas emissions. The research centres for environmentally friendly technologies have done groundbreaking research in several areas. The government will subsequently present a new strategy for CCS, and a potential study for full-scale CO2 technologies is now under way. This shows that the government is working on developing solutions that contribute to a more energy efficient petroleum industry producing reduced emissions. Research and industrial development shall provide the basis for the petroleum industry to be energy efficient and the world's most environmentally friendly way into the future. Then we do not need further requirements and new arrangements for an industry that already has its challenges in terms of profitability and further growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1537	If we are to achieve the climate goals we have set, and few of us agree that we should, we must turn every stone and take all the measures we can. We will therefore give tribute to the Left for the proposal to make it more profitable with energy efficiency measures for Norwegian petroleum industry through a combination of better depreciation rules and increased CO2 tax. It is true that environmental considerations and energy-efficient solutions have been given high weight in Norwegian petroleum activities. We have every reason to be proud of that. But in all our approach to this, we must strive for the best possible climate technology and the best possible use of resources. Oil and gas-related activities are, after all, the main reason why we have the climate challenges. The double must always be recognized. We also recognise that petroleum activities will take place for decades to come. From 1990 to 2013, emissions from oil and gas activities increased by 79 pst. As a result, the sector’s contribution to reducing emissions is also an important part of the climate action. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1553	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1556	It is an important theme to be addressed today, and there is probably broad consensus in the Committee that this theme deserves attention. At the same time, many of us also believe that we have to wait here for some processes that are a little bit ahead of us. Oil activities have been regulated for a long time, much longer than many other industries. It is clear that the CO2 tax has contributed to both more efficient solutions and to technological development on the base that has been important and positive. I also think that the focus on efficient and more environmentally friendly solutions on the base has been good. Norway started early, with the ban on torturing. The issue of electrification of platforms on a Norwegian base has always been an important issue in recent years. The question of research and development, also linked to more energy-efficient solutions and emission reduction, has been important. The axis NTNU–SINTEF–Enova is and has been important for the petroleum industry in this way. There is no doubt that this industry will meet a review and probably also a change to its framework conditions in the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. I think they should prepare for that, and I think we in this room are going to discuss that in the years to come. But I think it's important for one of Norway's most important industries that you also await the more comprehensive review you get after Paris. Then you can criticise that it takes a long time, and that you are now waiting for the EU and what kind of system the EU agrees on, and what it will mean for Norway and what commitments Norway will have. But you almost have to deal with that, and the Central Party sees it as difficult to break down individual proposals relating to the oil and gas industry in the way the proposal proposes. We also think there is reason to follow up and wait a little for the ongoing industry programme, where industry's seas come up with proposals for energy-efficient solutions and for low-emission solutions. Therefore, the Centre Party is not prepared to support the proposal that is on the table today. This does not mean that we are not concerned about the issues, but we believe that they need to be seen in a broader context when the time comes, and the Paris Agreement should be followed up on a broader basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1574	Of course, it is wise to note that the hall more or less gathers is agreed that the theme itself is important, although there are actually a number of people today who not only reject the proposal, but also a bit of the intention behind it. And what I thought might be the most unfortunate thing about a not getting multiples to go on with this proposal, is that today we give ourselves a little unique chance to do something with a lot of things at the same time. This is really a green shift in practice. This would have led to a reduction in climate change emissions on the base, it would have been an emergency measure to reduce the increase in unemployment that we now have along the coast, not least in the maintenance industry, and it would have, last but not least, strengthened Norwegian oil and gas in a market where a competitive burden on prices, but where climate-friendly production processes are a competitive advantage – and a competitive advantage that will increase in strength. This is no more a hokuspokus: when a combination of more favourable depreciation rates – makes it profitable – by setting up the price of CO2 to get dual pay, one actually creates only one market; one makes it profitable to invest in an increase, reducing emissions. I even believe that the temporary increase in costs that might have been incurred by the doctor in this case would have in the long term led to savings in the total cost to the operators on the base. Even though we know a little too little about it – even the papers from the committee – we know at least, through a student project at the University of Southern Trondelag, that the potential for someone on the base is quite large. They indicated at least half of the terrain only on the housing platforms, which are currently being fired at the hooks. We also know that due to the price reduction of oil and gas now on the world market, what is also the most necessary maintenance is waiting and actually exacerbating unemployment in the maintenance industry. If the operators had now received an award, I suggest that the chance is quite great that they would have made the threshold very low to start up maintenance work which is now being pushed ahead of one, and which is actually only set up for later. In this way, it could really be an answer to what we're all busy about -- how to help those who are now losing their jobs along the coast. So the sum sum I actually thought it was a little unlikely that the proposal was rejected by the majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1590	It is an important matter that the proposers raise, where the Left wants to increase the requirements for energy efficiency in the oil sector, and SV fully supports the intention. I hear that there are more people here who are dreaming of a future in which the oil will still be a very important contributor to the climate problems for many years to come, while most of us hope that both economic dependence will be reduced and that we can also find more climate-friendly solutions that will not destroy the future climate for us. However, it is important that, on the way there, we ensure that it is the potential for energy savings and reduced climate emissions such as: has been demonstrated by Climate Change 2020 and the 2014 report on the ‘Low Emission Development Knowledge Framework’ is being implemented. The Directorate-General for the Environment has highlighted significant opportunities for reducing climate emissions and emissions from other polluting gases, and the SV has made proposals in the past, and the Left has now made proposals in this matter. Plus in the book to the left of it! There is very little willingness here among the majority to promote energy efficiency and emissions cuts in the sector where seas produce the most greenhouse gases. And that's incomprehensible, because the majority of the Biggest now say that this is a dangerous development, which you've accepted is a reality. I agree with the representative from the Left that by making demands you could also create work for people and a conversion. Conversion is necessary in difficult times to get out of it at the other end with a better production apparatus, which is proportionate to the necessary greenhouse gas reductions that need to be put in place. I would like to address the two proposals proposed by the SV and the Greens in the vote, because SV believes that we need an eco-incentive other than that proposed by the proposers. We agree very much, but the use of the tax liability to get this out is doubtful, but we believe that the CO2 tax and technical requirements are a better solution. Therefore, we propose that the Environment Directorate and the Oil Directorate should be entrusted with the task of reviewing the existing emission permits of the oil industry and other legal conditions, in order to update the requirements in order to implement technologically feasible energy efficiency improvements and thus contribute to the achievement of Norway’s climate targets for 2020. We also have a proposal that the Grand Government should make proposals to ensure that the potential for emissions reduction through energy efficiency measures in the petroleum sector is realised as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1610	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1614	Norwegian petroleum activities contribute large amounts to the Community. Although the industry no longer has the same growth impulses, for many decades to come it will be one of our most important industries. Through the tax system and the day-to-day business, it has provided us with a significant pension fund that benefits both current and future generations. The petroleum industry is now in a difficult transition period with low oil prices. Companies are actively working on cost reductions and technology developments that can in the long term enhance profitability. The main task of the authorities here is to pursue a long-term policy that facilitates companies' choice of the most efficient and profitable solutions. Environmental and energy-efficient solutions are important considerations that have been given great importance in the construction of the petroleum industry. More instruments are currently being used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Charges, emission allowances and other instruments motivate petroleum companies to apply energy-efficient solutions and reduce emissions. From 1991 there has been a high CO2 tax on the cap, and the tax today is 435 kroner per tonne for the use of natural gas. In addition, the EU ETS imposes obligations on allowances. The combination gives a total price of about 500 kroner per tonne of CO2. This means that the petroleum activity has the highest price of CO2 in Norway. This high price gives companies strong incentives to choose emission reduction solutions. Energy efficiency improvement will be one of the measures that companies can consider to reduce emissions. Emissions pricing is estimated to have reduced Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions from the petroleum industry by a total of 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This means that the emissions in this industry are 25 pst. lower than they would have been without the instruments, and energy efficiency improvement has contributed to it. In addition to general instruments such as CO2 taxes and quotas, several instruments are directly linked to energy efficiency improvement. Enova supports e.g.: measures to reduce energy needs and greenhouse gas emissions both for industry and for petroleum. Norwegian petroleum activities are covered by the European quota system. This means that additional measures in Norway initially provide us with additional costs without affecting global emissions. Representatives propose to introduce more favourable depreciation rules for energy efficiency improvement. As I said, incentives for energy efficiency improvement are already strong. Measures leading to a more efficient use of energy are therefore already highly prioritised by companies because of the high price of CO2 emissions. Technology is being developed over time, and we should facilitate industry's choice of the most efficient technology in terms of emission reductions. On the other hand, if the depreciation rules are to be drawn up as proposed by the representatives, it will be difficult without favouring specific technologies rather than other solutions that can be more effective. Favourable depreciation rules would favour procedures that would allow large depreciable operating resources to be listed. In designing the tax system, two important principles are that industries should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner and that depreciation should correspond to the economic impairment of the operating assets. These basic principles promote productivity and economic growth and strengthen the overall competitiveness of the economy. Specific depreciation rules will be an inefficient tool to promote technology development and economic growth. It will also rock the stability and predictability which are an important characteristic of the Norwegian petroleum tax system. The proposed actions of the representatives could also address significant control challenges for tax authorities. The Tax Directorate does not have the competence to assess which investments are energy efficiency-enhancing. In an overall extraction plan, it would be difficult to identify the means of operation that contribute to energy efficiency improvement. The measure will therefore lead to more red tape and a more complicated depreciation system, while at the same time limiting the effects. The current instruments already provide strong incentives for energy efficiency improvement and emission reductions in the petroleum industry. The cost of CO2 emissions is high for petroleum activities and higher than in all other industries. I therefore do not see the need to strengthen incentives for energy efficiency improvement on the base and believe that this is not the basis for designing special rules in the depreciation system for energy efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1668	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 to 9 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1719	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 45 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that up to three rows be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1730	Today, we are dealing with the National Health and Hospital Plan and three Document 8 proposals related to the content and issues of the plan. Documents 8 address the quality of birth care, the framework funding of maternity wards and women's clinics, the development of the public health service and the new network model for quality in hospitals – both from the Centre Party – and a dream promise for emergency medicine, psychiatry and regional innovation, from the Left. For the first time since the state took over the hospitals in 2002, a government has presented the Stortinget with such a comprehensive and concrete plan for the development of the specialist healthcare service. The size has been invited with the plan to provide the overall policy framework for the development of the patient’s healthcare. The plan will be the government's operational tool to equip the specialist health service to meet the challenges of the future. The main objectives of the plan are to create the patient’s healthcare system, to give priority to the supply of mental health and drug treatment, to renew, simplify and improve healthcare services, to provide adequate health professionals with the right skills, to strengthen quality and patient safety, and to make clear professional demands for hospitals, to improve task sharing and cooperation between hospitals, and not least to strengthen emergency medical services outside hospitals. The Committee agrees that good governance and planning are a prerequisite for good health care. The Committee agrees with the government to equip the specialist health service to meet the needs of the future in a country as long as Norway is special. It is about finding a good balance between what needs to be done centrally and what needs to be done locally. When conflicting interests make it difficult to agree on what is the best solution, the patient’s consideration must be more weighty. One of the main actions of the plan is to propose hospital names that clarify content and make conceptual use more unambiguous and consistent. Another approach is that hospitals need to work in networks to succeed in task-sharing and overall patient progression. The plan confirms that Norway will have a decentralised hospital structure with a spine of emergency hospitals throughout the country, and no hospital will be closed as a result of this plan. These acts shall have the assent of the majority of the Committee. We have a good public health service in Norway. Not all countries have such a capable, competent and dedicated health care professional. The Committee is committed to gaining sufficient knowledge of the need for health professionals in the years to come, and the majority consider the development of a staffing model for hospitals to be a useful tool, precisely to prevent the shortage of health professionals. Norway is also the country with the lowest mortality after myocardial infarction and stroke, and is among the countries with the highest survival after breast cancer and cervical cancer. A unanimous committee points out that undue waiting is bad for the patient and may reduce the possibility of obtaining the best possible benefit from the treatment. This week we got numbers for those who are waiting for treatment. When this government took over, about 254,000 were in line for health care. New figures – that is the joyous thing – show that 42 000 fewer are in line. While fewer people are waiting for health care in the specialist healthcare service, more and more people are being referred to for evaluation and treatment. It's a pleasure. However, we need to equip the specialist health service for the future. Norwegian society will undergo major changes by 2030. Developments in population, age composition, people's expectations of standard and quality will have an impact on planning. We're getting older, and by 2030 there will be over 300,000 older than today. So we're moving to the cities, and the disease picture in the population is changing. More than half of the lives lost are due to cancer, heart and masculinity, musculoskeletal disorders and mental disorders. The consumption of healthcare in them over 70 years of age is twice as high as among 40-year-olds. In the consultation of the plan, Specter concludes with that description and writes among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The plan provides a good basis for a more comprehensive and predictable development of the health and hospital sector in the years to come. The plan provides a thorough and reality-oriented description of the challenge picture with major demographic changes, future labour shortages, tearing technological developments while increasing public health expectations.’ A unanimous committee indicates that user involvement at all levels is important to ensure that the patient’s voice is heard, and the Committee also refers to the expert group of users, patients and relatives, who have made representations to the plan on the importance of being heard, young as the elderly. The plan proposes advice for young people at health care establishments, to which young people with disabilities are very positive. Medical research and innovation bring forward new, improved and gentle treatment methods. Research and innovation provide more new pharmaceuticals and advanced medical devices, such as robotics. The Committee supports the plan which proposes that patients should be more involved in clinical research and that it is important to facilitate the participation of all hospitals in and integration of research into patient treatment. Specialization is speeding up, and especially in the field of surgery, there has been a raging development of e.g. open abdominal operations, which have been replaced by peritoneal surgery, robotics and methods of intervention in the use of imaging. We'll all be operated on with new techniques, which gives us more gentle cases and fewer complications. The Committee has noted that, in the light of societal developments, the government will have a new modular model of specialist training. Specialist training shall be more flexible and adapted to the needs of tomorrow. The Committee believes that it is important for specialists who have broad competence in the front of municipalities and specialist health services, and we want to strengthen in-house medical competence. The plan provides for the creation of a new medical speciality aimed at emergency reception. The majority of the Committee on the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that the objective of the new speciality must be to enhance the quality of services and to satisfy as much as possible international requirements for the competence of emergency reception and observation posts. Today we have 51 hospitals in Norway with emergency facilities. The plan addresses challenges that small hospitals may have, whether it concerns the recruitment of specialists or there is little patient basis. At 14 smaller hospitals, emergency medical and emergency surgery was surveyed in 2013, and hospitals had an average of three immediate emergency hospitalisations in surgical wards and six in medical wards. This is challenging. The plan therefore outlined two scenarios for developing emergency services in smaller hospitals. The Minister himself has said that the scenarios are not premise or lead the development of hospital services further, as the Committee also agrees. The majority of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left point to the fact that the plan states that the development of the surgical profession necessitates a change in the organisation of the emergency surgical response in smaller hospitals. A number of local adjustments have been made to emergency preparedness in different health establishments over the past 10 years. Among other things, I mention: The deacon home, Lovisenberg, the Helgelands Hospital Mosjøen, Health Førde and the West Viken. The discussion of the plan has largely focused on the smaller hospitals and their functions and emergency services. Never have hospitals like Narvik, Lofoten, Volda, Stord or Flekkefjord had so many visits and received so much attention, and never has the involvement around the hospitals been greater. It's positive. The Committee has received many consultation opinions in connection with the examination of the Storting. Among other things, the Lege Association has recorded well, and several of these have been preserved in the setting. Several consultation opinions also address an anxiety about retirement and the loss of functions. The health service action says: «many of these local hospitals have been threatened by closures and have had very uncertain operating conditions for a number of years. Such uncertain framework conditions – more than the size of hospitals – create recruitment difficulties. When the plan detects that in the future small hospitals will have problems recruiting qualified surgeons, the plan itself has laid the groundwork for such difficulties. On the other hand, if a hospital has a reasonably safe future and foreseeable operating conditions, it is also possible to recruit a stable and well-qualified staff’. For the government parties, it has just been important to have an agreement around the plan that creates calm and predictability in Hospital-Norway. This applies in particular to areas around hospitals that have felt threatened by closure. The parties – with the exception of the Centre Party, which has its own plan – were invited to talk and dialogue. As I see it, the Workers' Party was most concerned with evading the plan, criticising the Minister of Health and promoting its own views. It is all right since the views are largely similar to those of the government, except that they want to keep the regional health businesses. The Christian People's Party did not choose to join since they have a different view of the role of the Storting regarding what is to be determined by the enterprises versus the Stortinge on the issue of decision-making of hospital functions in some hospitals. With the agreement between the Left, the Advance Party and the Right, we want the plan to help eliminate uncertainty for the future of the smaller hospitals by recognising their value and clarifying their requirements and content. We are committed to strengthening cooperation and the division of tasks between small and large hospitals, including the allocation of individual areas from major hospitals, as well as hospitation and rotational arrangements. It is important that small hospitals are guaranteed the economy for such a development. These lots agree with the proposal to define the four different types of hospitals proposed in the plan: regional hospitals, large emergency hospitals, emergency hospitals and hospitals without emergency facilities. The four regional hospitals will have the largest provision of regional functions and national treatment services in a health region, but this does not preclude large emergency hospitals and university hospitals from having regional functions. The working party also supports the intention of the plan to classify hospitals into these categories. The parties to the agreement believe that emergency hospitals should have emergency functions in internal medicine, anaesthetics in the 24-hour period, planned surgery, preparedness for surgical assessment and stabilisation and management of acute events. We also believe that emergency hospitals should have trauma preparedness and, in general, emergency surgery services whose housing patterns, distance between hospitals, car, boat and air ambulance services and weather conditions make this necessary. Several of the hospitals will need full emergency surgery because of long distances. It is important to point out that changes in hospital services should not weaken the overall supply of food. Hospitals currently offering emergency surgery will continue to do so when the patient’s needs so require and quality and patient safety are taken into account. The agreement also lays down the competence requirements for the child ward and the geriatric competence requirements for large emergency hospitals, which other parties also support. The Sickness Plan proposes to strengthen emergency medical services outside hospitals, and the Committee considers it important to ensure the dimensioning and quality of prehospital services. A modified division of duties between hospitals, if any, must lead to a simultaneous review of the capacity of the ambulance service. The Committee would stress the crucial role of the ambulance service in emergency preparedness. The air ambulance is important for the preparedness, effective treatment and transport of acute illness and injury. The members of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Centre promote a concrete proposal that the government should come back to the Stortinget with its own case on the base structure of the air ambulance in Norway. The national health and hospital plan outlines the follow-up of the Storting's treatment, and it is such that all enterprises are required to draw up development plans and quality assurance is required. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, also considers that significant changes in the division of tasks should be made between hospitals and clarified in local processes and development plans. The majority of the parties to the agreement are concerned that healthcare businesses should have close dialogue with municipalities and other relevant actors in the work on development plans. We also ask that the government keep Stortinget informed about significant changes that have been promised until the business meeting. The majority of the agreement also wants a new governance model for specialist health services where regional health businesses are not included. The management model shall be amended after the adoption and functioning of the national health and hospital plan. We look forward to the Womensland Committee's investigation into alternative management models for hospitals. Finally, I will address management and quality in management. The Committee considers that it is necessary to impose higher requirements on managers and new requirements on managers in the healthcare sector in the future. Greater attention needs to be paid to quality, patient safety and overall patient outcomes across professions, departments and institutions. Several recordings in the consultation round refer to the importance of good communication and proximity to the leader. The complexity of hospitals is great, and good interaction across units is important in order to obtain good patient flow. The Committee supports the principle of local management. In the national health and hospital plan, the Stortinget is leading the way for major and important decisions and the development of Hospital Norway. It ensures that the hospital is equipped for the future and provides stronger democratic management of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1806	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1809	Surgical emergency response disappears from the smallest hospitals. It's time to deal with it. It was established by Minister of Health Bent Höie when he presented his National Health and Hospital Plan in November 2015. He also said last year's hospital talk: ‘In order to perform emergency surgery, a patient basis of at least 60 to 80000 inhabitants is required. This means that at least half of today’s Norwegian hospitals have insufficient patient base.’ We hear clearly from case rapporteur Örmen Johnsen, also quoted in Lofotposten after she had been visiting Gravdal Hospital, that they want to put away the scenarios that say there should be more than 60,000 inhabitants to maintain the acute surgical function. How does the rapporteur assess the basis of knowledge in the government's approach when it categorically rejects the bearing reasoning of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1819	The reasoning of the Health Minister in the scenarios is good. It raises the issue with a thin population base around some of our hospitals. And the scenarios say, which is right: what does it take to have a large number of operations – a surgeon needs to train? At the same time, the plan also says that you have to have offers even though there are actually geographic distances that make it not... this was actually a little messy said. The point is that the Minister of Health himself has said that the scenarios should be removed, but the scenarios actually show that there are some challenges, and they solve the plan by just having emergency medical preparedness and emergency surgery in all the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1824	The Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree that regional health companies should be replaced by another form of management. My question is: has not this plan actually sealed even more of the powers of health businesses because one has now given up so much power to health businesses that they can decide and make major decisions, for example: acute surgery in a local hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1829	No, I don't mean that. On the contrary, the Minister of Health has actually prepared the change that is to come, among other things. by having received a national purchasing enterprise, we have received a national ICT enterprise and also for hospital construction. This means that several of the tasks that have been at regional level have now been promised. It is a preparation for what will happen when the Women’s Country Committee has carried out its assessment. It is also important not to sement structures in Norway. Health services and the development of healthcare in Norway are dynamic, and that is why we have considered it important that the Stortinget should not go into detail but adopt principles on how to manage Hospital-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1836	The Government Party, the Left Party and the Labour Party are some of the reasons why today’s local hospital, now called emergency hospital, does not require emergency surgery. However, such unattended hospitals shall be responsible for preparedness and shall be able to handle acute events. This proposal is not professionally credible. In Norway, all professionals have also warned against the proposal to have an emergency hospital without emergency surgery. In Sweden, a previous well-functioning, fully-functioning hospital has had major problems recruiting solids, and that the quality has gradually fallen throughout the operation when emergency surgery has been removed. My question is, how can the Right, which gives the impression of being concerned with quality and knowledge, propose a national model that is so strongly dissuaded from a comprehensive professional environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1841	I do not believe that the model that is now being debated is the non-counselling of the trade unions. What this model strengthens is exactly the position of the small hospitals. It is clearly stated which criteria and what an emergency hospital should be offered. It hasn't been like that before. The local hospitals, as they were under the previous government, had no definition. One grip is that you need to have a new specialist training in emergency medicine, which will strengthen the emergency receivers, and those are the ones who like to be the hurt point. We have also said that we should have emergency medical and emergency surgical assessment competence at the receptions. When you mention acute surgery, it's not a uniform definition. Many hospitals today have, for example: acute tortopedi and many variants of acute surgery, so I think it's shown today, among other things. on Elverum and in Health Förde, that this is soluble and gives very good quality to the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1852	Sometimes I get the impression that there are some people who think it is almost natural that we have a hospital structure and a public health service that is present all over the country. I also sometimes get the impression that people don't understand enough that it has its background in specific political decisions – missions and goals given by the Norwegian big business and changing governments. If you were to run according to what was purely effective, where most people live, where you could get the most back for the money, some of the places that have been directly affected by this government plan would not have the right to life. I begin by saying that, because sometimes there is an impression – and I sometimes think that today’s government is overplaying – that a document is now being drawn up for the first time to be decided by the National Assembly in Norway, where political decisions are now to be made more than what has been decided before. I believe that our common public health service, with hospitals at the head, across the country is a direct result of the way we have chosen to organise ourselves in Norway. Norwegian hospitals are constantly developing. Several patients are treated, waiting times go down – it is very good that today’s government follows up the important work done by the previous government in that area – and quality increases. This year alone, we're going to spend over 140 billion dollars. kr of taxpayers’ money – our public money – on operations, activity and investments in Norwegian hospitals. It's the community's investment, and then it just shouldn't be that we politicians, too, set a clear political framework around how part of this money should be spent. However, to reach patients as far as possible, good management and planning is a prerequisite. Therefore, I have to admit that the work on the national health and hospital plan from the government has been demanding. It has been demanding because the debate on the plan from the start to the finish line has been a debate towards a moving goal. We have to remember what is the background to this plan. It is that for many years we have experienced that many parties – with today’s Health Minister at the head – have often pointed to the need to establish a national health and hospital plan each time a challenge or budget deficit arose or in other ways problems in hospitals. Others have pointed out that this plan is necessary to make other things happen that are politically desirable. It is therefore quite strange that we now end up with a situation, even though many of the proposals get broad agreement, where it is not the government's proposal, but the main opposition party's proposal. The reason why I am addressing this initially is that I now hope that the follow-up to some of the decisions that are now to be made does not end in the same way as the course of this plan has done. This sector — hospitals — cannot be managed by left-handed work. Follow-up to the decisions must provide hospitals with safety, stability, good services and robust, predictable framework. They do their job against us doing ours. That is why I would say that the only thing that has been safe for quite a long time now, and that is becoming clear today, is that the national health and health plan of Health Minister Bent Höie has not become so many things that it should become. I would remind you that those who are going to implement what we are now adopting later today by a different majority – the Labour Party is involved in some of it – are the regional health companies with the faceless bureaucrats, whom an overwhelming majority of the UK has gone to the elections to be removed. Now we're almost two and a half years out in this magnification period. The government party on the Right has to pay for its election vow – the case rapporteur Kristin Ørmen Johnsen pointed to it in his post – which is not close to being fulfilled, and I think it is good, because it has led to the fact that this was actually not as bad as it should be, now reducing a public selection that is to come up with proposals at the very least at the end of this big period to replace today's hospital management. I remind you again that this is a sector that manages 140 billion. DKK, tens of thousands of employees, millions of consultations and proceedings each year. Then you have to be quite sure what you've been doing, when we're so far out in the landfill period. Nevertheless, I would say on behalf of the Workers' Party that the objectives are always more important than the instruments, and we will remain open-minded if the Women's Country Committee, to which reference was made, makes proposals that can retain much of what is good about the governance model. But if there are proposals for some changes, we are of course involved in discussing it. So over to what has been at the heart of the dispute, and which is also a little strange in a discussion that should be about a national plan with the most important issues. In the change of lines now we heard a quote from Health Minister Bent Höie where he categorically struck, and used the occasion when he presented his plan, that the surgical emergency response at the smallest hospitals disappears if he and the government get their will. This was as late as back in November. Then the Health Minister had throughout the year tried to persuade professionals, patients, us politicians and the people that some of us have dared to call a sort of desk rule he had launched, was the answer to the organization of emergency surgery and emergency preparedness at the smallest hospitals. I don't think I need to refer this again -- this comes up again and up again. The reason is that there has been a deliberate desire from the government to establish a principle laid down here in the Stortinget that would provide back coverage to make some changes in Hospital-Norway. The plan itself repeats the arguments and suggestions that were launched almost a year and a half ago in his hospital speech. But Norway is a long-distance country with great geographical distances and a lot of weather. In our view, it is not possible to distribute hospital services according to some kind of mathematical formula in a country like ours. Norway is not A4. The organisation of hospitals cannot be either. That's why we in the Working Party have spent a lot of time traveling around, listening and learning. We've discussed intensively, tried to weigh up and in thought and tried to conclude on what our way, what our proposal, what our alternative should be when we realized that the proposal that the government had presented did not bear, simply, bear. Well over a month ago, we presented our proposals, and here we have been very clear from the Labour Party. We presented proposals both in the Committee and in the public: We wouldn't leave a population limit as a kind of indicative limit, a ruling limit. We asked the companies, if we had a majority here in Stortinget, to ignore the so-called scenarios described in the plan, where a Norwegian government has made it clear that it is a smart idea to put four-five named hospitals on what many call a sort of blacklist, where it is not clear what would happen, other than that something would happen, with a reason that now does not hold water. So we asked in our proposal to ignore that list. We proposed that instead we should establish a third road, where it cannot be a ‘either-or-model’ that should answer the question of what a hospital should offer, because Norwegian hospitals are simply so different. We proposed to move more planned surgery out to the smallest hospitals to strengthen the watch base for surgical vigilance in part of the smallest hospitals. We suggested that we investigate how to modulate specialisation for doctors' watch skills, because we think it would be too vulnerable if a single branch of trained surgeons were the only ones who would be able to operate emergency surgery at the smallest hospitals in the future. The Minister of Health was simply drawing the wrong path. That's why we had to create our own map that reflects the reality that we think Norway is part of. We believe that we country on a good proposal for our common health care. The local hospitals have always been strong in the Workers' Party, but I would say that they have never been stronger than they do today. The hospitals deserve to know what their future is like. That's why we thought it was important that we found a professional and political proposal that we could put ourselves behind, that we can vote for today, but that we could also run the country if it was our job to launch the proposal. Based on the attitude that is on the table today around these things, we cannot help but note: It is not the majority of the top proposals put forward by the government and the Minister for Health. The proposals and formulations of the Labour Party, which were launched publicly more than a month ago, are those which are now being given a majority. This has happened without us having been invited to any negotiating room or at any other time sitting around a table and discussing proposals that we have promoted. Nevertheless, they are given a majority. We have to be satisfied with that, and I would like to stress that it means that our policies are both professional and political, and that the setting thus provides a more solid – much more solid – starting point for the development work that is now going to take place in the hospitals and that the government is responsible for following up. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we have some suggestions on the follow-up side of this where we believe that the government parties along with the Left do not go far enough. Both comments and proposals, which in part receive a majority, do not get a majority, should be a clear marshaller to the country's top in charge of hospital management, which must be extremely conscious of what is the Storting's will and intention to understand how these proposals are now to be understood. Today there's going to be a discussion about the context of these proposals, because that's what often becomes the problem when the extremes meet. One of the extremes was the government's proposal that we should establish an indicative limit, an intentional agreement in Stortinget, which could be used almost uncritically by businesses on what they would do about emergency preparedness. We will not support that. However, we do not want to support proposals that the Storting should consider how individual wards in individual hospitals should look. Nor has it been the Labour Party's policy before. That's what's going on in our party program. That is why we will not support 10-15 proposals such as this. The centre party has about named individual hospitals and their organisation. Finally, a lot of other things. We have been concerned that now we need to get out of discussing only four-five-six named hospitals and over to what most of the patients can benefit from if we make good, wise decisions. We have proposed that a general rule be established that local management should be a principle that the management of hospitals adheres to, because we simply no longer believe in an idea that hospital staff can be remotely controlled. And that means something for the development of culture, trust and implementation of the decisions themselves to have leaders who are present in working life, close to patient treatment. We are pleased that it is now becoming a majority – we think it is very good. In addition, we believe that one of the places where it does not work well enough is in Health South-East, which is the regional health company here in the East. It's too big. That is why we propose that a process be launched, in which it is explored how it can be broken up, in order to create greater proximity to the decisions and more transparent conditions around a region that I think has just become too large. In addition, we also support proposals for an investigation and proposals on the table on the base structure of air ambulances. We think that the government parties along with the Left are taking a good time. We believe that the proposal and the investigation should be on the table already in the State budget for the autumn. It's urgent. At the end of the day, a explanation of vote. It's not easy for ordinary people who haven't worked intensely and thoroughly with this plan, to get a close look at what's happened. We have, as I said, promoted our proposals, and they have been standing for a month and a half, and many of them now have a majority. We're happy about that. However, some proposals do not have a majority. That is why, in the Labour Party, we are promoting Roma proposals I and V together with the majority of the Committee. We are not included in the Roman numerals II, III and IV, because we have promoted our own proposals that reflect our view of the matters referred to in the proposals, in our minority proposal No. 9, 10 and 11. However, they do not seem to get a majority, and we will subsidly support the Roma proposals we do not have, as well as those we are in for by the majority of the committee. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in an incubation a few places in the setting, the Workers' Party has been standing on the outside where the entire committee is involved in some comments of a more universal nature – you might call it. So for people who might read this in retrospect, it wasn't meant to be against it, it was just an incursion. With this I address the proposals for the National Health and Hospital Plan that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1928	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1933	The Labour Party states in the preamble that the discussion on hospital structure is not new in Norway, that it is well known that you have met it with clear political intervention in the past, and you refer to the notification of a national health and care plan presented by their government. But that plan was not operational, and the Stortinget was not invited to make decisions, as we are today. But both before and after this plan several hospitals have been laid down, while you were sitting at the rudder. I would therefore ask you, what clear political action is the Workers' Party's view of changing the hospital structure during the period you were sitting at the rudder?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1938	The President will draw attention to the fact that all speech should be addressed to the President – not the ‘day’ form of the person to whom you are speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1941	First, I just want to say that I think one should be quite well protected on health policy issues to see to what extent the plan that we are discussing today is particularly operational, in the sense that it will be interpreted in any other way than plans previously undertaken by the current government, and the Minister of Health, at any time. I repeat what I said in the post, that it is not without reason that there is a hospital all over the country. One of the things the Labour Party has been particularly concerned with in government is protecting the regional management of hospitals. This means, for example: that very many of the simple decisions about the hospitals in North Norway are to be made from Bodø, and not from Oslo. I know a lot of right-wing politicians play with the idea of establishing a directorate like that. may have a main seat here in Oslo, which will decide how to initiate hospitals in our northern part of the country. So it's one of many examples of clear political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1946	Today, the Labour Party is outside a majority I suspect that they would like to be part of. The main features of the plan are the Workers' Party and the Micaelsen's agreement. Nevertheless, he has expressed in the media that the Minister of Health has lost, and that the process around the plan has not been good. But unlike the government Micaelsen himself was part of for eight years, today's government and today's health minister have done a good job of securing the future of Norwegian hospitals. The working party did not send a big message about the hospitals to be consulted in eight years. And what did the Workers' Party actually do for the future development of Norwegian hospitals, except to put down a number of them? So my question about the Micaelsen is simply: why is the Workers' Party so back in the hospital question when they're in position, but seems to be very tall and dark when they're in the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1953	I don't think we were so very retired in position. You can justify that in many ways, but one of the reasons is that I don't think it's possible to win two consecutive choices without having confidence in one of the most important themes for people, namely health. Looking at what people think about different parties, the Workers' Party – unfortunately for the Advancement Party – scored far more on trust around taking care of hospitals than the other parties do. And if you look at the results of our reign, they're not back for anyone. Survival in a number of diseases increased sharply, waiting times were under control – they went down to the end of our reign – new investments were put in place. But I've been saying for a long time that I think it's getting pretty boring, to say it carefully, both for most people and for us now to discuss things that happened ten to twelve years ago. Now we should look forward to what is the future hospital. That's what we're most concerned about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1958	At the last municipal elections, we saw that the Workers' Party could not rely on Kongsberg, Tinn or Kristiansund for its hospital policy. The big issue now is the future of the local hospital – Flekkefjord, Kongsberg, Volda, Lofoten, Narvik, to name a few. Are we going to have a full-time local hospital with emergency surgery? The language used by the Workers' Party in emergency surgery and hospital names is the name of the government. It is very interesting to read the settings precisely and carefully. On page 50 of the setting, the Workers' Party says: ‘The hospital shall have surgical assessment competence in emergency response and preparedness.’;» A short, simple question: Is it possible to fulfill this that I have now quoted, without the hospital having surgeons in the 24-hour period?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1968	What I tried to say in my post is that all these questions need to be discussed in the context they stand. What Per Olaf Lundtigen now refers to is part of a long reasoning, I would say, which is logically structured. This is a complicated question, where it's not, as the Center Party sees it, black and white how to organise individual hospitals and individual departments. What Per Olaf Lundtigen refers to is what we've defined as an absolute minimum limit on how to organise an emergency hospital, and it's now up to health companies to do that job. On the other hand, it is not to be understood at all – and we stress it both in writing in comments and in other ways, and I would like to do it again here – as a message that health companies should steer towards such a minimum level. Rather, on the contrary — the rest of our remarks and the rest of our proposals are about the opposite: it should be built on the resources that exist, it should be developed to strengthen, not weaken local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e1977	The Party Party's Party programme reads about hospitals that we want to ‘rescue regional health companies’ and have a ‘decentralised specialist health service’, and we cannot support a substantial reduction in local hospitals. It is an objective to provide equivalent health services irrespective of their place of residence’. In addition, it says: ‘In order to provide the patient with the best possible range of services and to stabilise and initiate the treatment of serious injuries requiring treatment in major hospitals, local hospitals should have a minimum of care to ensure 24-hour continuous emergency preparedness. There is also a need for a reform of the competences of the medical staff in the emergency services. [[...]] In this plan we follow up all of this. After several years with a red-green majority who shut down hospitals, a lot of use of corridor beds and an increasing number waiting for treatment, this became our most important point when we went to elections. And we've already achieved a lot. Not only are there nearly 42 000 fewer in treatment queues, they are also waiting for a shorter time. To get a comprehensive overview of the hospital service today and in the future we were also busy getting the very first hospital plan in place. The plan gives us, as the Progress Party sees it, a good insight into the challenges we are facing to further develop the patient's healthcare. The plan contains 146 pages, a small part of which deals with acute surgery. When there's these few sides that everyone's been talking about, it says a lot about how good the plan as a whole is actually. The Labour Party has criticised the Minister for Health for having invited to debate already in the hospital case in 2015, because, according to them, this created unnecessary insecurity. Openness, long and good processes and debate in advance are the opposite. The uncertainty was created by the opposition, who made claims that the Minister of Health had decided on a specific limit for the patient base, and that this would mean that half of all local hospitals would be closed down. After the plan was submitted, we were able to read on page 44 of the message what indicates that the opposition was thoroughly wrong. It says: ‘The recommended lower limit of the acute surgery area of 60 to 80 000 inhabitants is included as one of the leading factors in this assessment. Factors such as geography and housing patterns, distance between hospitals, availability of car, boat and air ambulance services and weather conditions shall also be given high weight.» Yet many kept saying that this number was an absolute requirement. So the unnecessary insecurity that is created gets others to put on. In comments from the members of the Committee, we can see a broad consensus around the fact that we have known for a long time that changes in the surgical profession may make it necessary to change the organisation of emergency surgery in some emergency hospitals. As the Minister of Health replied to Mr Micasen’s hearing, this does not mean either – or, rather, that there are many ways of setting up emergency surgery, and that it is important that we use this spectrum of opportunities. Such local adaptations have already been applied in some places in the country. Hospitals are incredibly important to all of us. Everyone thinks something about it, and most people are very happy in their own hospital. Visiting hospitals around the country is always a great experience. No hospitals are alike. In fact, they're very different, not just building, but content, and it seems like everyone has something of their own. I am affected by the pride shown by most employees, and I am touched by the local people's commitment. That is why I have been worried that some people have wanted to talk some of the hospitals down. For we need sorely to maintain pride, faith and commitment. In this connection, I would like to commend the SV's Vice-President in Narvik. To his locality he expressed the following after the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left was presented: I am more optimistic than before. Quality and patient safety have been ensured, so it is in place for Narvik. Furthermore, he states that the sum of all the points in the agreement gives Narvik good cards on his hand and makes him think the hospital can be developed. There is an incredible strength in the fact that central local politicians lift up their own hospital, as Geir-Ketil Hansen does here. The Labour Party has been very concerned that the Health Minister has lost, after the Right, the Progress Party and the Left signed an agreement. We remember all eight red-green years, where the hearings were for the sake of sight, and where the majority loyally adopted that government promoted. It's the Stortinge that makes decisions. Therefore, it is both important and right that the Storting make its own assessments. The Progress Party supports the Sickness Plan. But we're still free to take in other things that we think are important. We are clear about the requirements for the contents of emergency hospitals, which are considerably stricter than the red-green ones when they defined what a local hospital should contain. Well, then, emergency surgery wasn't a requirement. What's interesting now is that when you read the attitude, there's a broad political consensus about it all, mostly. The SV and the Green Party are not represented in the Committee, so their views do not appear there. The center party is quite so alone about most of it. But to me, it's what you do, which means something, not what you say. When the Center Party ruled the country for eight years, they shut down local hospitals, they said no to shut down regional health companies, they said no to a hospital plan, and emergency surgery at the local hospitals was not a requirement. The working party has been concerned that this is not the first time we are dealing with a national hospital plan, and refers to the national health and care plan. There is reason to recall that when this was being debated in Stortinget, the case-rapporteur, who was from the Workers' Party, used four sentences in the hospitals, while the then Health Minister Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen did not say anything about the hospitals. So that's how much weight the working party places on a hospital plan. The Sykeshu plan we are discussing today has received broad political support. A unanimous committee shall support the following: to equip the specialist healthcare system to a large extent, the principle that patients should be used as system auditors and change agents in the development of the service establishment of youth councils at all health establishments, that is to say, greater involvement of the patient when decisions are to be taken to increase user involvement in research authorities' objectives to give priority to drug and mental health challenges, the objective of softening the distinction between mental health and somatic health services to give priority to mental health care centres and children and youth psychiatric units, the objective of increasing the need for more ambulant emergency teams setting up a remote and specialist national quality registry for multidisciplinary drug treatment, the need to assess both diagnostic centres and package trajectories on the basis of cancer programmes for other diagnostics to develop a recruitment model for hospitals, the need for quality and patient vigourity of the hospital, the need to focus on the need to provide a sustainable and the need-to-treating environment, and the need-to-treating of healthcare facilities systematically and the need-to-treating facilities, and the need-to-treating of healthcare systems, and the need-to-treating of healthcare systems, and the need-to-can be systematically, and the need-can be provided; So there's a lot of agreement about the plan that was put forward. In addition, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have agreed on a number of additions and some clarifications that I would like to comment on separately: The national health and hospital plan shall be submitted to the Stortinget every four years. It shall inform the Storting of the status and challenges and enable the Storting to take the main decisions on the development of hospitals. This is now supported by an overall committee. We will provide security for the people of all parts of the country. We want the hospital plan to specify the requirements for hospital content. The plan provides for a continued decentralised hospital structure in Norway, with a ‘backbone’ of emergency hospitals. The plan contains the government's recommendation to the Stortinget about what kind of hospital we should have in the future. This is also supported by the Workers' Party. We set high standards of competence. Although Norway today has generally high healthcare coverage compared to other countries, there are geographical variations in access to personnel. Indicative figures show that the challenges in the future will be even greater. Therefore, it has been important for the Progress Party to secure the smaller hospitals. Our main focus has been to put the dying ghost of closure and, at the same time, to give these hospitals new opportunities. In the agreement, therefore, we have put in place that the plan will help to remove uncertainty for the future for smaller hospitals by recognising their value and clarifying the requirements for their content. In the further development of hospital services throughout the country, all hospitals need to cooperate more closely than today. Large hospitals must entrust tasks to smaller hospitals in order to exploit common capacities and competences. The smaller hospitals can specialise and become lighthouses for individual areas. This could provide hospitals with exciting professional environments, development opportunities and increased opportunities to become an important player in the overall hospital service. We are committed to strengthening cooperation and task sharing between large and small hospitals, as well as hospitation and rotational arrangements. It is important to ensure the economy of small hospitals for such a development. Many of the smaller hospitals say that they think this is good, but they're afraid it won't. They say that the major hospitals pick tasks from them. I have therefore promised to underline this point. Together with the Workers' Party, we are promoting a proposal to ensure the further process around this. In pediatric and pediatric departments, children and young people with chronic conditions shall be guaranteed access to psychological competence. This is now supported by the entire Committee. Older people live longer and more often with suffering resulting in increased medication. Knowledge of disease images of the elderly and proper medication and good interaction with the municipal services is important. Large emergency hospitals shall have geriatric competence to meet these challenges. This point of the agreement is also now supported by an overall committee. The scenarios described in the plan will not lead to the local and regional development processes to be implemented. This is supported by all parties except the Workers' Party, although they say the same thing on the way. We specify that emergency hospitals should have emergency functions in internal medicine, anaesthetics in the 24-hour period, planned surgery, preparedness for surgical assessment and stabilisation, and management of acute events. We believe that emergency hospitals should have trauma preparedness and, in general, emergency surgery services whose housing patterns, distance between hospitals, ambulance services and weather conditions make this necessary. The working party says the same in its comments without requiring competence to stabilise, and that they do not need to be prepared to deal with an emergency. The four regional hospitals will have the largest provision of regional functions and national treatment services in a health region. However, this does not preclude large emergency hospitals and university hospitals from having regional functions. We are also promoting proposals that hospitals currently offering emergency surgery will continue to do so when patient needs so require and quality and patient safety are taken into account. We stress that any changes to the hospital offer should not weaken the overall food supply. It is important to ensure the dimensioning and quality of prehospital services. Stakeholders must be seen in the context, and they must be at the same rate. The cooperation agreement between health enterprises and municipalities should serve as a common planning tool. A Joint Committee supports this point. All health establishments shall draw up development plans in close dialogue with the municipalities and other relevant actors. The development plans for the different health enterprises need to be seen together and ensure the overall health supply in the region. There is a guide on how this work is to be carried out. We believe that the supervisor needs to describe the requirements for dialogue in order to ensure good processes and requirements for investigating the consequences of any proposed changes. Once the plan has been adopted, the government must keep the Storting informed of significant changes that have been promised to a business meeting. The proposed agreement between health establishments and municipalities on prehospital services shall be part of the statutory agreements between hospitals and municipalities, thereby forming part of the dispute selection procedure established in the context of the interaction reform. We want a new governance model for specialist health services, where regional health businesses are not included. We look forward to the Women's Country Committee's investigation. This point is supported by the Christian People's Party. Recordings from the hearing show that there is a need for local management at the hospitals. We are promoting a proposal on this, which is supported by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2156	In the Sunnmørspost before Christmas, the representative Kjønaas Kjos was confronted with his clear message from the 2013 election campaign that the local hospital would remain if the Progress Party got what they wanted. In December they wondered why the representative of Kjønaas Kjos was so quiet when the government of which she was a member presented a proposal that Volda was just on the list of the five who were in danger of losing their emergency response. The next day, Kjønaas Kjos answers that with this plan we can put the threat of killing, the decision will be taken locally, the Progress Party believes that they have been passed through for all small hospitals and that the plan will be valid for 10-20 years. The question is: Does it mean that the Progress Party can now guarantee that the five hospitals on the list – and Odda – will have emergency preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2163	This means that if we adopt the plan as it now exists, as a result of those decisions, it will not be a hospital that needs to be closed down. I – and the Progress Party – have been talking about local hospitals. We have not pointed out individual services in individual hospitals, the type of employees they should have, or the type of operations they will carry out, but we have said that local hospitals will pass. They shall be hospitals; they shall not be local medical centres. That is why we also change the name of these to "acute hospital".
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2170	The Christian People's Party wants to ensure emergency surgery as a principle in the smaller hospitals and has been criticized for being detailed. This shall be determined by the undertaking. Nevertheless, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left determine concrete demands for child-ecological competence and geriatric competence, which I think is great and good, but it proves that this is politics. I wonder, what is detail management, if you can control detail in terms of child-ecological competence and geriatric competence, but don't say anything about the principle of acute surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2177	I think there's a big difference between saying hospitals have to have different types of knowledge and competence and pointing to named hospitals and detailed management how many surgeons they're going to have, and what kind of surgeons they're going to have, at what times of the day. The big difference is that we create some framework for the different hospitals, while the Christian People's Party has wanted to go into every single hospital, which is 51 of them. We've said that in Stortinget we don't have the knowledge to do that in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2184	Hospitals without emergency surgery will become a district medical centre over time and from international experience. That's why emergency surgery is so important. As the chairman of the committee said, the Senter Party has presented its own plan. It has little support here in the house. It has enormous support outside the house, and we are coming back strongly in all the discussions that are coming forward. Full-time local hospital is committed because it provides security. Kjenaas Kjos says there are many ways to have acute surgery. We're going to do a little blood test on what this means. On page 48, under “Acute surgical alert”, it is from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left: ‘Acute hospitals shall have an acute function in internal medicine, anaesthetics in the watch, scheduled surgery’ – and so on – ‘prepared for surgical assessment and stabilisation, and management of acute events’. Is it possible to do this without the hospital having a 24-hour surgeon?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2198	According to people who work in a local hospital, and doctors and surgeons with whom we have had many meetings, it is possible. They have been involved and made the text in this, so I feel secure in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2206	This debate is really going to be about four issues, and we're talking a lot about one. But we are also going to consider a Document 8 proposal on a dream promise for emergency medicine, psychiatry and regional health innovation for 2017-2021, we are going to talk about the network model of the Center Party, and we are going to talk about quality in maternity care – in addition to the health and health plan. I have been delighted to be the case rapporteur for the setting of a dream promise for emergency medicine, psychiatry and regional health innovation. I have, as the rapporteur-in-Office, reviewed the proposal with the proposers, which has focused on Norway's good health in the world context, and that at the same time we are facing major challenges in the future, with increasing specialisation, the need for new medicines, new biotechnology, new technological gains, which means that we need to equip ourselves for the future. That is the main intention of the proposed document 8. It has ten proposals in itself, and the majority of the Committee supports the basics of these proposals. It does not seem that any of the ten proposals are encouraged to vote today, but it is a basis for the rest of the discussion of the other issues. Then I will go to the big debate today, which is about the health and health plan. The debate did not start in Stortinget today. The road has been long and profound. A comprehensive and comprehensive policy has been important in meeting both existing needs and the needs of the future. A comprehensive national health and hospital plan has long been in demand, including from the Christian People's Party. It is a political responsibility to ensure our citizens equal health services of good quality throughout our long-term country. Hospitals are about people’s security – security, quality, care – and it is about our services. To lead the hospitals and hospitals-Norway in the future, good management is needed, and the Christian People's Party has been a driving force to regain local leadership. Employees have to be cared for, they are gold worth, and they have to have soil in order to evolve. There must be transparency and trust and participation that underpin a healthy culture in our hospitals. The government and cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left went out in 2013 with a clear ambition to prioritize patients in the field of drug and mental health protection. We can conclude that the waiting time is significantly reduced for those with drug problems, and I think that is very good news. The Christian People's Party will work to see the same result in the field of mental health protection in the future, for both children, young people and adults. We are far from being in the target, especially with regard to the mental health of children and young people, and we have to be careful to be able to act in this regard. The Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal for an escalation plan, precisely to achieve the goal of a mental health plan for children and young people. The Health Minister proposed in his hospital speech in 2015 a lower limit of 60,000 to maintain emergency surgery – it was just like the standard number. This worried many of us. The Christian People's Party said clearly, from day one: we disagree with this. We called for technical reasons for the proposal. They haven't come yet. I am pleased that the named hospital is being protected temporarily, as a result of the landfill treatment. We've fought for this. But now it is up to regional health companies to save them for the future. Now the torches have to go to the company, not to this accumulation. At the same time, we think it is worrying that the government and the Left first place responsibility for regional health companies alone, and second place them in the hospital to be deprived of the emergency surgery they have today. They allow this to be replaced by a narrow emergency surgical offer, a so-called special area, despite the fact that the hospital mentioned in the plan has actually shown good quality. If smaller hospitals can only treat small niche diseases, it becomes too specific and too narrow to be able to take emergency surgery on the day this is needed. One must ensure broad activity in the small hospitals, ensuring that we have a good preparedness across the country. Otherwise, this can quickly evolve into the Christian People's Party calling irresponsible preparedness. In the government's scenario, there is a premise that the specialist health service of the future will become so specialised that it will be very difficult to maintain the current emergency surgery, especially for the small hospitals. Developing a local hospital with basic preparedness is important, and it must be a misguided policy. We have to appreciate that the medical profession is constantly being advanced and focused. Developments in treatment provision should and should be able to benefit patients. At the same time, it will be essential that the number of specialisations does not run smoothly, but that it is set up to ensure a good and wide range of competence through the training of health professionals. The government must ensure broad competence also in the hospitals of the future, and the Christian People's Party supports the transfer of specialized tasks from the major hospitals to the small ones, as has been done in Stord and Voss. That means we can maintain good quality. And we're for giving rotational arrangements, so we can have good capabilities and good knowledge at all levels. The acute surgery in the smaller hospitals is part of the hospital's core competence. Small local hospitals are located in areas where medical guards are scattered, where local health services have few doctors, and where there is no link between private specialists. There is an internal connection between surgery, anaesthesia, radiology, internal medicine and laboratory services, and it is precisely this whole thing that provides good health care for patients. That's why the Christian People's Party has been involved in emergency surgery, because it's about the whole hospital, the whole hospital across the whole country. The midwife association asked that there be a hearing, an impact assessment of what it would mean for the supply of food if one shut down the emergency surgery. This is also linked to a good supply of food. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the government to ensure that the local hospital that currently has emergency surgery retains the emergency function to ensure a good and proper preparedness throughout the country. Emergency preparedness is anchored in local hospitals, and local hospitals are the extended arm out to the ambulance service and out to the air ambulance service. This is related, and therefore the Christian People's Party has proposed, together with the Senter Party, that we want response times for the ambulance service. This is a requirement that health professionals must ensure that they are followed and implemented, for rapid and good help, with good professionals, opens up the possibility that those who are injured will receive good assistance in the workplace, the possibility to be treated in the local hospital – and not least in a larger hospital if necessary. This is important for patients in District Norway not to be harmed by suffering that is actually being rescued in central areas. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party, proposes that the national health plan be as a national transport plan. We want an operational plan, a stronger political governance, which allows us to discuss principles in Health and Hospital Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that one of the principles is actually acute surgery. So I'd like to say something about all the proposals for decisions that are available. First, I want to say that in the first section on page 37 of the Innst. 206 S for 2015-2016 is replaced by the following: ‘The majority support the government’s desire to introduce competence requirements in emergency receptions [[...]] That sentence is not Christian People's Party. Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 33 and I, III, IV and V – plus other proposals for the other issues that we are also discussing in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2241	Will the President assume that the representative will also address the Christian People's Party's own proposals and the proposals of the Christian People's Party with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2245	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2250	Then the representative, Ms. Olaug V. Bollestad, brought up the proposals she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2255	The system of free treatment choices is mentioned in the national health and hospital plan. The Christian People's Party joined the government's proposal when we discussed this matter last year, but both in the previous period and in connection with the bill, the Christian People's Party has expressed uncertainty about this arrangement. When we discussed the matter last year, the Christian People's Party stressed that it is important that the system and the reform be evaluated after some time. What we are now seeing suggests that the plank has not been hit with free treatment options – to put it mildly. Only a small number of private institutions have been registered as interested treatment sites. None of the great ideal drug institutions are in it. What does the Christian People's Party think about us getting so little out of a use of money that is so far about. Thirty million. kr only in administrative costs, i.e. money taken from the public hospital budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2262	The starting point of the Christian People's Party is that the wit is fairly equally distributed. We think patients can be able to choose services that they themselves believe in. We believe that especially in some areas, especially in the field of drugs and psychiatry, it is important that the patient himself has a ownership of what they are going to travel to in order to succeed in getting good treatment. Then it's a paradox that some of the great ideal organizations haven't gone into free treatment choices. That, I think, must be central to an evaluation of free treatment choices, because we're totally dependent on having the ideals with us to meet the health needs of the future, whether it's drugs, psychiatry or somatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2267	It is with some wonder that I have followed the Christian People's Party and the representative of Bollestad in the matter of the national health and health plan. She represents a so-called support party for the government, but in the daily and practical policy she goes hand in hand with the committee colleague Kjersti Toppe of the Senterpartiet. It's going to be what's known not to be nice throughput. I wonder what the representative Bollestad thinks about all the work she's done on the plan, that it doesn't materialize in any way when the Christian People's Party chooses solitude and exclusion from the vast majority promoted as majority changes to the plan. It is said that the person standing alone is the strongest, but I am unsure whether that is how the representative of Bollestad feels today. My question therefore becomes: What is the stamp of the Christian People's Party on this plan, if there is at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2276	I can go hand in hand with the Center Party. If politics is only good, the Christian People's Party can do it. I would ask the representative of the Progress Party to note what I said about what decisions the Christian People's Party actually supports: I, III, IV and V of the decision proposals plus some other proposals that are in the plan. It is not that the Christian People's Party stands alone, as you claim. The Christian People's Party went out of the negotiations at the point of acute surgery, because we believe it is the foundation wall of the future of local hospitals. If you haven't secured the emergency surgery, it'll be like a card house that actually makes them not in the long term the hospitals all want us to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2281	The Christian People's Party is the party that has the most in common with the Center Party in the election – thank you for that. We invest for the future, we have strong support out there. Here there are going to be many fresh debates in the future, because this is something that is incredibly important for people. But it's important to have a high level of precision on what we're doing, and especially in this case, because there's been so much fog talk up here over the years that precision is necessary. Local management is such a debate. The center party has defined it, and I'm excited about the Christian People's Party definition. Then I am a little surprised that the representative of Bollestad has criticised the Central Party for the proposal for a full-fledged local hospital in Flekkefjord with the fact that the Senter party did not go far enough, that it was not a good enough proposal. Would it not then be natural that the Christian People’s Party had promoted a better proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2290	The Christian People's Party has been concerned with ensuring a breadth of emergency surgery, while the proposal of the Centre's Committee on Civil Liberties is about a minimum standard. It was Christian People's Party occupied. We wouldn't put any restrictions, because if it turns out that Flekkefjord Hospital has both staff who are motivated, have development opportunities, have resources and want to provide a broad, selective surgical offer, the Christian People's Party thinks that then we must not limit it to a minimum. We want the local hospital to develop more widely than what I see was in the proposal from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2295	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2298	The aim of health policy is to promote health and prevent disease and ensure the necessary health and care services for the whole population. Norwegian hospitals should provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it when they need it. Today's debate was to clarify the future of our local hospitals. National health and hospital plans should lead to policy clarifications on quality, recruitment and education, organisation and rental of health services. The Health and Sickness Plan should clarify the hospital structure, prioritised large investments, done well for task allocation and national, regional and local functions at our hospitals. In this way, we could secure Norwegian hospitals, the good skills environments and the security of the inhabitants. The government’s proposal for a national health and hospital plan does not respond to this key challenge. The setting doesn't fix this either. National health and hospital plans do not ensure the political direction of the hospital sector and have been a plan that provides even greater room for non-people elected by regional health care agencies to resolve and decide on significant changes in our public hospital provision. The Central Party believes that Norway must take the goal of creating the people's health service. The health service of the people is something far more than the treatment of patients and much more than the narrow and individual objectives of the government for its health policy, the creation of patients’ healthcare services. The human health system is a cornerstone of our solidarity of well-being. The health care of the people should be a good thing for the whole society and for people in all situations of life, which provide the basis for business and business. Today, we have marked social health differences in the population of Norway. Hence, the right to equivalent access to hospital services, regardless of where a cage is in the country or who is, is important. Decentralised hospital provision is necessary to provide such equivalent health services. We have to take on serious social responsibility for health services. The health system must be able to discharge its social responsibility through a democratic and leadership reform and a new network model for the development of quality in hospitals. Norwegian hospitals need new guidance, organisation and funding. The Centre Party’s alternative model for the organisation and financing of hospitals is based on a clear and clear division of work and functional distribution between hospitals, where one has the centralisation of specialised provision and decentralisation of other services. Local hospitals must be ensured for their key supply by clarifying this in their national health and hospital plan. Developments must take place in cooperation between local hospitals, central hospitals and university hospitals in the region. To date, this cooperation has been strongly influenced by competition between hospitals and not by genuine cooperation for the benefit of patients. The common professional environment, rotational arrangements, hospitation schemes, common training programmes and common back-up schemes are examples of measures that can strengthen professional cooperation. The same quality requirements must be set for large and small hospitals and quality transparency must be available, but the quality requirements must be met in different ways. In the network model of the Centre Party for the Development of Norwegian Hospitals, we base ourselves on the fact that the minimum requirement for basic competence should be daily preparedness before internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, x-rays and laboratory services, as well as the supply of food. We do not support proposals for minimum requirements for an emergency hospital such as the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Labour Party are some of them. That emergency hospitals do not need emergency surgery, but at the same time must be responsible for surgical evaluations and stabilisation and also responsible for the most acute events – it is a proposal that is totally unprofessional. The central party believes that Norwegian hospitals are currently being hired in a way that does not provide confidence in the population. The experience with today's business model is that decisions about significant changes in hospital provision lack democratic legitimacy and lead to much unrest. The centre party will liquidate today's health insurance law. We suggest that Norwegian hospitals be run in a management model with elected national, regional and local governance. For the purposes of this model, all hospitals shall have fully-fledged rentals with professional, budgetary and personal responsibilities, and financial liabilities, including for the operation and maintenance of the building stock. We propose to move away from today's market-oriented funding approach, and that hospitals should be financed mainly within the framework. There is no reason that when sick people are in hospital, they have to be financed otherwise than in the case of sick people in the municipalities. In the hospital debate, it is often claimed that we have too many hospitals in Norway, and that a collection for fewer and larger hospitals will provide better quality and more effective patient treatment and less expensive operations. It is not correct. It cannot be established that, in general, larger hospitals provide hospital services of better quality than smaller hospitals. Nor have we seen many small hospitals in Norway compared to other countries. Small hospitals are generally not less effective. On the contrary, research on hospital mergers shows that there is no such covariance. Analyses of hospital mergers into major hospitals in Norway and the rest of the world show that hospital mergers do not make any profit cork when it comes to quality or cost. That's rarely the result that's mirrored, and Oslo University Hospital is an example of that. The centre party records that the national health and hospital plan does not contain any mandatory wording on the level of investment or investment needs. The fact that the health plan also does not take into account that Norwegian hospitals today have an occupation rate far above what is common in other countries is also a fact. The Central Party suggests that one introduce a defensive cap in Norway of 85 pst. investments in ordinary activities. This is what the Center Party is all about, unfortunately. The fact that the majority are in favour of centralisation of local hospital services without taking into account what this will require of the development of other sites is unsustainable. Local hospitals are our nearest hospital facility. They are essential to ensure quality, proximity and security. Local hospitals are the basis for health services and provide care and treatment for patients with the most common diseases. Today, local health spaces are defined between 60 and 75 pst. of all patients in Norwegian hospitals. Having local hospitals in the vicinity of the local health service and community is a very important quality. A weakening of the breadth and professional quality of the local hospital, as the plural now opens, is a weakening of the patient supply in Norway. It shows the experience of Sweden, which has done just that. Previous well-functioning and fully-functioning local hospitals with all basic functions that have been deprived of the emergency surgery and that functioned according to the Höie model, with purely intrinsic acute function, with internal and anaesthetics on guard, have subsequently been shown to experience major problems in recruiting solid corpses, and the quality of the whole operation has declined. Do we have to make the same mistake in Norway? The provision of food in local hospitals is very important to preserve and develop. Reducing local health and emergency surgery skills will also pose a threat to the supply of food in local hospitals. I am also concerned about the food supply in the large food departments and the food clinics in Norway. We have received many concerns from midwives that the quality requirements that came in 2010 are not being met, and in particular there is feedback that the requirement that all births in the active phase of their birth should have a midwife is not met. This is the background to the proposal of the Centre Party, which is also being discussed here today, to ensure that the quality requirements from 2010 are implemented, to provide a framework for the financing of maternity care, and to ensure defence-related staffing as an emergency response. Norwegian hospital policy now needs honesty. The political party must end with approximate and comprehensible wording. Folks must not hide behind the health bureaucrats of the corporate government. It's the Stortinget that's going to determine significant changes in our hospital supply. It is about the very core wall of our solidarity health care system, namely the right to equivalent health and hospital services throughout the country. I would then like to bring up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter. We will subsidiaryly vote for I and V in the Inn. 206 p. We're already in III and IV, and we're also going to support SV's proposal No. 34 and 35 in the past. In addition, the centre party has two proposals in the Chamber today. The only thing is to create a geriatric ward in all regional hospitals and university hospitals. The second proposal from us is that all hospitals with emergency facilities should have access to adequate radiological assessment on a daily basis. The last two proposals I mentioned, should have got multiples in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2326	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2337	The representative Toppe has a great commitment to maternity care, and that's good. Tops talk hot about the midwife's competence and important presence. The midwife is not only important in active birth but also very important in maternity care and in maternity care. Can the representative Toppe explain to me why the centre party does not think it is right to oblige municipalities to have midwife?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2342	We instruct the municipalities to have midwifery competence and competence to have a professionally good maternity provision and maternity care, while the government chooses another way to ensure their competence, simply to legislate the profession. There are only two different ways of securing the competence of the municipalities that we're both concerned about. What I'm very disappointed about is that the Right has not followed up on its own proposal from the previous ageing period to secure the midwives in the municipalities a better and more organized way of financing. They have asked that question for many years, and that proposal has now been postponed. There's a demand from the midwives that I'll continue to fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2347	The whole purpose of the National Health and Hospital Plan is, in fact, to ensure that all patients throughout the country receive a really good offer. So the majority now say that there should be local influence in the processes around the smaller hospitals. In addition, clear guidance is provided for the large hospitals to have a good cooperation with the small hospitals. It's nice to hear the Central Party's argument for the importance of these hospitals now, when we know that the Center Party has been involved in laying down many more hospitals during the period of government – Larvik, Sandefjord, Sauda and Stensby were laid down. How can people trust the Center Party when they suddenly, when they're in opposition, want to secure all the hospitals. When you were in position, you agreed to lay down several hospitals. Now you actually have a plan that says something about how you think the structure is going to be in the future, and you take care of the small hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2352	I could ask the question right back to the Progress Party, but the problem is that this plan that is being adopted today says nothing about the structure. He gives health professionals all the power, more power than they had in the previous period. I am surprised that the Progress Party, which was clear about local hospitals and their contents there, is now in government and agrees with what has actually been proposed in the plan. The centre party is not satisfied that one in the local hospital and in the districts of Norway is going to thank for a hospital offer that has a poorer quality than what people in the central district of Norway are expected to have. That is why we will continue the fight for local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2359	In Oppland, the Senterpartiet appears to be the most important party for a major hospital, i.e. a large-scale centralisation of hospitals in Hedmark and Oppland. It involves laying down at least three hospitals and replacing them with a large, centralised hospital, which may never be large enough – it is now its case. While in the setting, I record that the representative Kjersti Toppe is opposed to such a major hospital in the interior, in line with the undersigned. The left in Uppland and also the Progress Party in Uppland have been very clear on that. My question is, which center party is what is talking here today? Then I have to add that Oppland Center is probably the largest county battle in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2366	Unlike Left, we have a clear definition of what we think must be a minimum requirement for hospitals in Norway, where, in addition to internal medicine and anaesthesia, we also have emergency surgery and x-ray and laboratory services. This shall also apply to Uppland. When it comes to major hospitals, we've been very clear. The Central Party’s largest group has decided that we are against the Grand Hospital in Gaustad. We proposed it, but we did not receive support from the Left. We are also opposed to a major hospital in Uppland and have a clear understanding of it. However, the Left has little to say about this, since the Left is now involved and is responsible for assessing whether there should be a major hospital or not, to regional health care agencies, not to the populace of the Stortinget or Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2376	Norwegian health services are among the best in the world, measured in survival, life expectancy, resource use and geographical distribution. But we are facing some major challenges: demography: a growing population, an ageing population – especially in the districts – and a younger population, with many births, in the largest cities an increasing specialisation with new and personalised medicine and treatment, new medical technology, new bio- and genetic technologies, new sensor technology and a significant digitisation of society. It points to the plan as one of the major challenges ahead. We have social inequality in health. In general, we see significant growth in non-infectious diseases such as diabetes, cancer and COPD, as well as overweight and morbid obesity and growth in the number of mental disorders. This is a major public health challenge. This will challenge us on priorities, investments and organisation by 2040. In 2003, we spent 55 billion dollars. kr. on the state budget of the hospital. In 2016, we're using 140 billion. kr. If we take the community health service and various health bureaucracies, we're at 290 billion. kr. For the next ten years, we're going to allocate an estimated 3,000 billion. kr for healthcare. It is with a certain awe that I share in granting and managing such resources on behalf of the community. If we count the hospital reform of 2002, with the establishment of health businesses, in money, the reform must be described as a significant success. In addition to operating expenditure, investments amounting to approximately 15 to 20 billion are made. kr annually. Given that the health sector is 17-18 pst. Of the entire state budget, we just need not get a plan. It's certainly time. Luckily, it is in the Left's major choice program. With resource growth and governance, we are not just discussing growth. We discuss location, specialisation and centralisation. But we have recently also discussed fear culture, opinion culture and lack of leadership. These are combinations with great political explosiveity itself. That is why a plan is very important, both democratically and politically. The great concern of the left in health policy is public health, prevention and early intervention. We believe it is both right for the individual and important use of resources on behalf of the community. The more disease we leave to produce, the better it is -- not least for each of us. That is why, in recent years, in our own draft budget, we have actually been the only party that has dared to propose a smaller growth in the hospital sector, in favour of greater growth in prevention and early action. We see the health sector as a whole and believe it is important to build strong municipalities to ensure a robust primary health service as close as possible to where people live, and as much as possible to the health challenges we have. The left will not have fewer municipalities to centralise Norway, but to help the community and the state to create capacity and quality. Therefore, the Left sees a clear link between new welfare municipalities and an important national health and hospital plan. We need a work sharing between public health, prevention, care and care in municipalities and repair in hospitals. We need to structure and organise ourselves optimally. The time window we have had from the interaction reform to 2020, where the increase in the number of older people is beginning to decline and the fall in oil prices has been announced, is quite unique in Norwegian economic history. Never have we been better equipped to organize ourselves to meet the significant challenges of the future. This plan is a good start to a hopefully long tradition, somewhat according to the model of the national transport plan. But simply, political navigation has not been for a minority government. However, I would like to commend Minister of Health Bent Höie for creating both necessary and limited debates. He has, however, been offensively discussing the patient base and the desire for quantification for some treatments. But put in a time axis towards 2040, we see some of the major challenges we want to face, and how we have to housekeepers with the resources. In fact, most of the plan was written before both the refugee crisis and the low oil price struck us with full weight. The plan is clear about the demographic challenges facing us, and therefore no hospital should be closed as a result of the plan. Whether it was a good idea to launch a red list of hospitals, I'm not going to pass a verdict over. Much has since been about the five hospitals in Scenario 1. The scenario is currently being repressively parked as a decision base for local processes. Distances and weather shall trump the population base in local processes. One of the five decisions that will remain after today's treatment in the Grand Duchy is: ‘that hospitals currently offering emergency surgery will continue to do so when the patient’s needs so require’. It is a fairly clear decision, and it is – as we hear – a broad political majority in the Grand Duchy that will support that decision. A debate we have not taken, as a result of the debate on the five in Scenario 1, is the debate on whether we have any black holes on the map. I want to draw up some examples that there are some discussions we should have had, but that we can come back to in the next plane. One example is Alta – a municipality and a region that could deserve more attention. For historical reasons, which many people have had, we have the hospitalization we have, but we don't necessarily have to settle down that's how it should be forever. Alta is the municipality of growth in Finnmark. Naturally, Finnmark, with its great distances, must have an offer in both east and west. Alta may have something in between. Health Nord has launched the concept of near-sickness. It won't fit into the names we're now establishing. Another example is Valdres. We're approaching Easter, and 60,000 tourists are on their way to Valdres. There's 20,000 cabins there, and there's 20,000 cabins there. So it's between 60,000 and 80,000 who live in that mountain region. There are many Alpine facilities and significant recreational activities. There's no hospital, and from the Beitost beer to the nearest hospital, it's two hours. There's a distance we've been discussing in several other contexts here today. There they applaud the fact that the Left has got the majority to try out acute and anaesthetic patients at Valdre's local medical centre. It's also one of the debates it's high time to take. That's why it's about how we're going to make total use of the resources. As districts and distances are part of the debate today, I think it is in place to recall the health and hospital policy of the red-green government for eight years, from 2005 to 2013. It was the Center Party and not the Left who participated in establishing Oslo University Hospitals, perhaps one of the largest hospitals in Europe, with 47 different addresses. It was the red-green government that collided Health South and Health East to Health South-East – both without significant investigations. It was the red-green government that put down a hospital in More and Romesdal, but didn't say which of the two would be gone. I don't think it's very good in history when you're talking about centralization and decentralization. The centre party would like to establish a primary policy that is different from that of the red-green government. I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party – when one sees the Central Party's history with eight years of no influence – navigates out of the hospital landscape by standing outside, when they see so clearly what the Labour Party's policy is here. I've used the concept of cosmetics in the past that we might be afraid to make some big changes. There will be cosmetic changes, and we also see here today only a cosmetic distinction between the Right Party and the Labour Party's hospital policy. Those who are to have an influence on hospital policy in Norway must navigate towards the centre, and the Left has concluded an agreement with the government, which shows where the centre of Norwegian policy is in terms of health and hospital policy. It's almost with surgical precision that we're adopting today a review of a minimum standard for hospitals that's pretty similar to Left's program formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2431	It may quickly seem a little cosmetic and semantics what is going on here today, but what is most important is what happens after this debate is over, and what happens after the follow-up of the Minister of Health — follow-up to health firms and individual hospitals. So my question is, with what's happened in the last few days and with last week's debate in Flekkefjord as a back carpet: how has the Left intend to follow this up, so that the intentions behind the Left are obvious for here, are taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2437	Because I understand, we have about the same intention. There should be hospitals in Flekkefjord, there should be the best possible offer for the region, which has large distances, and the distance has been one of the important discussions here. Flekkefjord has many births, including from Rogaland, and the composition of the surgical offer in Flekkefjord is demanding to clarify from Stortinget. That is why the Labour Party also says that we should have health companies, both regional and local, to help the Stortinget and the Minister for Health to adapt the local offer. We've put ourselves in that position now, where we have to use the power we have, to make sure that it gets the best possible, and being in and negotiating is more important and more useful than being on the side bar. This is also going to be about future discussions about government budgets, and money is also part of this. For the Left, which has said that we will give priority to public health in front of hospitals, we must also take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2442	Today, the Left supports the removal of emergency surgery, even if it is of good quality in some hospitals. The smaller hospitals can today have some form of emergency surgery, a so-called special area – perhaps it could be a little cosmetic. If a smaller hospital is only to perform special types of operations, how special is the emergency response? Will the Left now be able to say – based on the fact that we have ‘small’ operations in hospitals – that the preparedness of our citizens is sound in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2447	The left's errand in this discussion has been all the time emergency preparedness and the prehospital chain — emergency medicine in general — and also psychiatry as part of it. We've said that we have to strengthen this whole chain. It is today a rather unprofitable organized conglomerate – from municipal medical services, ambulance services and to emergency services. That's the weak link that the NOU first and last point to. We have to do something about that. We are now making four hospital definitions for future hospital models in Norway. One of them, ‘a hospital without emergency functions’, will mean that there are no emergency functions at all, but we have a demographic situation that suggests that there is a need for hospitals across the country to accept, among other things. the ageing population. Then we're not saying that there shouldn't be an emergency surgery offer in the five hospitals necessarily, it could be completely possible. Let's say that's going to be a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2456	In the program on the left, it says: ‘For fairness and predictability, the Left considers it important to define what a local hospital should be.’ According to the Left Programme, local hospitals shall also have the following functions: emergency preparedness in internal medicine, general surgery, simple surgical procedures, ‘natal care, and in addition x-ray and laboratory services’. Local Left voters and trust voters in Flekkefjord, Gravdal, Stord, Narvik and Volda are now very disappointed. Local team leader Ingeborg Haughom in Flekkefjord says that if the Left's decision leads to the closure of the acute surgery in Flekkefjord, she is no longer a member of the party. She's got our member for 28 years. My question is whether Left thinks it is ‘reasonable’ to give multiples for a hospital plan that until those degrees are run counter to the Left turned to the choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2470	I can't see it's in conflict. The review of surgery that we have with the government parties is coverage for in the Left Program. Surgery valuers shall be involved by local companies in saying something about it. Distances and weather are among the parameters to be taken into account. In the case of the offerings locally in the five hospitals, one has to take those processes locally and see if it is at all relevant to remove something there. As I said in the reply to the representative of Bollestad, we are going into a phase in Norway in the future where we can have different hospitals with different functions, that's right. Then there are some debates that the Central Party has not raised here either. These are the debates on which parts of the country do not have a real hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2479	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2482	I had the pleasure of visiting Lofoten Monday and Tuesday this week. One of my errands there was to visit the hospital at Gravdal and both trusted there and the local activists who are fighting to preserve emergency surgery at the hospital up there. On an approach to Leknes, we were sent back to Bodø because the fog was too thick to land. We got right down through a hole in the fog in the second attempt. But I thought it was a good illustration of what is the main challenge in this debate, namely that the debate on hospital structure in Norway sometimes makes it appear that it is the politicians in Denmark who are discussing, not the politicians in Norway, a wretched country where we have to take any account of our particular geography. That's like 10 to 15 pst. of all requests for ambulance helicopters in North Norway are rejected due to the weather. I also think that the fog about Leknes can illustrate a little of the fog in which the debate on hospitals in Norway is often embedded. I have seen that many representatives who do not want to take responsibility for securing emergency preparedness today have been on many of the exposed local hospitals and have spoken warmly about the need to take care of them, but skillfully jumped over the fact that the bulk of the population today is shifting all responsibility to health businesses. It cannot then be said that the decision today does not lead to closures. Today's decision is an abuse of the ability to stop closures, and the majority in the Chamber who do not agree to try to stop it is, of course, responsible if that happens. ‘As we have a National Transport Plan for Transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals. Then we will listen to local recordings, professional advice and let the Stortinget make the decisions.’ That's well said, but that's not my word. Those were the Prime Minister's words, just a few days before the 2013 elections. The right also said in the election campaign that the torches would get an address, and the address should be Stortinget. There's no doubt about how it was understood out there among people. Politicians were to take power over the hospital structure back. Therefore, there is a solar breach that there is not such a health and hospital plan that the Stortinget is discussing today, as some of the most important policy decisions on the basic hospital structure are still being passed on to health companies. This is a hugely important question for people around the country, and just as I think it's natural that the Stortinge discusses how many teachers we're going to have in our schools, where the defense's facilities are going to be, or what kind of road network we're going to have in different parts of the country, it's quite in place that the Stortinge is adding more detailed leads to the hospital structure than the majority put up with today. I think this is a debate that also shows that in this area the difference between the Labour Party and the Right Health Policy is unfortunately very small. There I agree with those from the civil side who have pointed it out. But it is also very disappointing that it is the Left who ensures the majority of the government – the Left who has previously shared our criticism of the business model. I think the Left in this case, as in so many other cases, is very self-satisfied that here they are. But politics isn't just about being involved, it's about standing up for something. And with the quotes from the Left Party program that we got read instead, we can at least establish that there is no surgical precision in the throughput to the Left in this case. It has been said in the past that the centre party is alone in this matter. That's not right. SV does not have room in the committee, and our positions are therefore also not visible in the position, but, as we have previously announced, we will vote in favour of a number of the proposals of the centre party today, in addition to the two proposals that we ourselves have promoted, which are distributed in the Chamber. We believe it is time that the Stortinge manned – and women – to do what the people in very many communities expect of us, and to address the difficult political question of what functions the country’s hospital should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2500	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2505	Twelve hospitals were closed in the last 20 years without any overall debate, and four hospitals were closed while SV himself was in government. In winter, SV chose to leave the Health Committee, so now SV is going to take the fight for the local hospitals. I would like to ask, where was the SV when Larvik, Sandefjord, Stensby and Sauda hospitals were closed? And isn't it a strange way to take the fight for the local hospitals to leave the Health Committee? I miss Audun Lysbakken on the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2512	I do, too, and anyone who wants to do something about it can make an SV a bigger party at the next election, and we'll come back to the committee – without I expect to get any direct help from the replicator to that very thing. It's the system that's the problem. SV opposed the corporate reform, and that was precisely because we wanted more direct political governance on these issues. We believe that the Storting should take power back over the hospital structure, that the business model is a model with significant democratic deficits. So that doesn't mean that we mean that all aspects of the hospital structure should be the same. Maybe it's right to put down some functions somewhere, maybe it's right to create new hospitals somewhere in the country. The question here is who will decide, and we believe that in the same way that we have, in order to use the Right's own words, a national road transport plan in Norway, we should have a national hospital plan that took a position on the most important issue with regard to the hospital structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2521	SV had been in charge of hospitals for eight years. The regional health businesses then decided to close local hospitals, and SV remained completely silent. Now SV says that this government is shifting responsibility to the companies, but what we are actually going to adopt today is that the local hospitals, which until today have been local hospitals, must have a number of offers and functions that SV did not themselves require when they were in government. We're also going to decide that they're going to do more, do more, and they're also going to make the economy do this. So then I ask SV: does not SV see that these hospitals are actually being strengthened today in relation to what it was like under red-green rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2527	No, because what people around the country are asking about now is the future of the emergency response that the Health Minister himself has contributed to making vulnerable, through his famous list, and that the majority of the Stortinge does nothing to ensure through the suspension, even if the government parties are driven a bit on the defensive. The progress party is one of the parties that really meets themselves in the door again and again after in previous years having appeared as a defender of the local hospitals. So I'm going to try to record how many times civil representatives say eight years during this debate. I have no problem resisting what SV did in the government. We've been against the business model all along. It is a model that ensures that responsibility is shifted downwards. But the government parties have to stop talking as if they were still in opposition to a government that has for the most time gone off. Government parties are responsible, and the number of ‘eight years’ in this debate is about to start to get a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2534	Business model or whatever, it's a fact that Oslo University Hospital was merged under the red-green government, regardless of eight years actually, without a plan. It's part of the elephant in the room that we're now discussing, it's one of the challenges that the smaller hospitals are really meeting, and we've had investment ambitions in Oslo for 43 billion. kr. What does Lysbaken think about that hospital being merged a bit like that overnight without a plan? And what will another type of governance model do with any new non-citizen government ensuring that something like this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2539	It might as well be interesting to ask how a civil government is going to make sure that such things don't happen, and we have no guarantee for that. Oslo University Hospital is too big, Health South-East as the region is too large. That's my vision. There was a lot of connection to this process that was special, which made it urgent to intervene, but I have no problem saying that we need – and should have – structural changes. But the most important structural change is about who will decide about the future. I really wish I could put the Left a counter-replic because the Left has been a party that has had a patent criticism of the business model and the way the hospitals are managed, which has now been abandoned during a hectic winter in the Health Committee in dealing with this matter. I think that's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2544	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2547	Making a national health and hospital plan in Norway was one of the things I was most happy to do when I joined as Minister of Health and Care. The aim was to present a plan for developing our hospitals to master the challenges of the future, so that everyone in Norway will have safe hospitals and better health care wherever you live. The goal was to give the Storting the best possible insight into the status and challenges of the specialist health service and to invite what is our top elected assembly to give the overall leadership on how hospitals should develop. The goal was to present a plan that was just building the patient’s healthcare service across the country. The aim was to have a national health and hospital plan that ensures a continued decentralised healthcare with a backbone of hospitals throughout the country, where hospitals work together as a team, and where the larger hospitals will help not least to provide a safe basis for the smaller hospitals. All these objectives are widely accepted in today's setting. I also wanted an open planning process, where we were to share knowledge, dilemmas, challenges and scenarios in full transparency, and where everyone with an interest in health and hospitals could participate in the public vocabulary. I believe that we have also achieved that objective. The debate on the national health and hospital plan has been high, and the involvement has been high — the intensity too — in the last two years. We have engaged users, professionals, municipalities and organisations, through both meetings and debates around Norway. They've been in samples, they've been in different expert groups, and the word change has sometimes even been so engaging that more than I've probably experienced being added to opinions you don't have. But it is still very good today to be able to end the debate in Stortinget now, so that the plan is completed, and we can start implementing it. Now we need to equip the specialist health service for the future, and it is essential that we agree on the challenges. There will be much more people in Norway. The SSB says we're going to be 5.9 million inhabitants in 2030. We're getting older, and the older ones are going to be a lot more. Older people over 70 years of age use twice as much healthcare as 40-year-olds. The population of the big cities is increasing. Young people and immigrants settle in the first place in cities. The pressure on urban health services is due to several older people, more immigrants and more immigrants. The challenges of districts are primarily linked to an increase in the number of elderly and increased demand for hospital services as a result. Some diseases become less threatening. Others are growing in size. In particular, there is an offer for patients in the main disease groups who will be under pressure. However, this changes the health provision of people with chronic diseases, cancer, mental health challenges and drug dependence, so that services are better equipped to cope with the increase in these patient groups. Treatment opportunities are increasing, but they also increase costs and the need to make the right and good priorities. We have more differences in health services than we should have in a country where there is a common perception that health services should be equal to everyone. Unwanted variation may be a sign of both lower quality and wrong priority. Many still wait unnecessarily long for absolutely necessary treatment. Proper competence in the right place is likely to be the main challenge for the health service of the future. If we continue to organise and use the specialist health service as today, we will need 27 pst. several employees in 15 years or 30,000 more annual works only in hospitals and 70000 more in municipalities. This challenge cannot only be met by training and employing more and more people in the specialist health service. We need to work smarter and better organise ourselves, use more technology and use health professionals better in patient-oriented work. The Sykeshu plan shows that both increased resources and higher migration rates in healthcare are needed to master the challenges and provide a sustainable health service for the future. In this first national health and health plan, the government has chosen to focus on what we consider to be the most important thing in this plan period, which runs from 2016 to 2019. It is to create the patient’s healthcare and continue to give priority to the provision of mental health and drug treatment, to simplify, renew and improve services, to provide adequate health professionals with the right skills, to strengthen quality and patient safety and to make clear professional demands for hospitals, to establish principles for a decentralised hospital structure, to define the content of the different types of hospitals, to facilitate better division of tasks, not least to work more together in teams and to strengthen emergency medical services outside hospitals. I note that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the main content of the plan and that there is a great deal of welcome about most of the proposals and measures outlined in the National Health and Hospital Plan, and I am pleased about that. One topic has been the subject of strong debate here today, and that is the issue of emergency surgery in the future hospital. One of the main objectives of the National Health and Hospital Plan was to adopt definitions that clarify the content of different types of hospitals. The government’s wish is to facilitate the differentiation of emergency hospital functions in the future hospital — this in order to ensure proximity to the services that are most needed, and not least to ensure the safe quality and patient safety of all hospitals, whether large or small. Through the agreement concluded between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, a majority of the Health and Care Committee agrees with the government's proposal that we should have four types of hospitals in Norway in the future: regional hospitals, large emergency hospitals, emergency hospitals and hospitals without emergency facilities. The contents of the four types of hospitals are defined and elaborated in the position of the Health and Care Committee. I'm very pleased that there is a majority in the Committee on Development in which there will be different types of emergency surgery at the smallest hospitals in the future, depending on local conditions. In the proposal for a decision of the Health and Care Committee, the Swedish Government asks that ‘houses that currently offer emergency surgery will continue to do so when the patient’s needs are met and quality and patient safety is ensured.’ This is fully in line with what was both my intention and that of the government, and I want to see that health care establishments take this into account in their development processes. The Health and Care Committee asks the Government to ensure that the scenarios described in the National Health and Hospital Plans are not to lead the local and regional development processes to be implemented, but it has not been the government's intention that the conclusions be given in advance. I would like to clarify to the companies that the conclusion in these scenarios regarding the content of the individual hospital should not lead. The Committee points out that there is a need for local hospital management and suggests that local management become the general rule in Norwegian hospitals. I am much more concerned with better and clearer management in hospitals, among other things. to ensure good communication and proximity to the Chairperson. I want to communicate the Storting's decision on this in the business meeting with the regional health companies on 4 May this year. As the Committee also points out, it is important that uniform management requirements of the law are met and that health care businesses have some flexibility to design management models adapted to local needs within the framework of the Stortinge. National quality requirements for maternity care are set out in the Annual Report on maternity care, for 2008-2009, and in the Directorate-General for Health A safe food supply. These are fixed. This means that the maternity wards must have anaesthetics and anaesthetics available on a daily basis and emergency and Caesarean surgery personnel. The supervisor also recommends that all give birth to midwives as early as possible in the active phase of their birth. This requirement is now actively working to meet in all health businesses. But the number of births varies considerably from day to day throughout the year. Birth care therefore imposes additional requirements on good manning planning systems. This is something most hospitals now have a lot of attention. Birth care is financed as another somatic specialist healthcare service through both basic and effort-driven funding. This has been a principle independent of governments. The funding mechanism is one of several instruments in health policy, but it is important for me to stress that the medical evaluations are to lead the healthcare system that is provided to the individual patient. The Committee concludes on a development where hospitals will work together as a team to help the larger hospitals secure the basis for the smaller hospitals. This is also fully in line with what I experience is the intention of the representative proposal on a network model for quality in hospitals. The government is asked to ensure that more planned surgery is moved to the smaller emergency hospitals where it is possible to do so, in order to enhance the surgical competence of these hospitals. The government is also asking to return to Stortinget with its own case about the base structure of the air ambulance in Norway. All of this is also a prerequisite for the government's plan. I see it as a strength for the implementation of the national health and hospital plan that the committee is so clear on this. Once the Storting has dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan, the development of hospitals shall take place within the framework laid down by the Storing. The mission will be given to regional health enterprises at the Enterprise Meeting on 4 May. The work shall be carried out in accordance with the process requirements of the new national guidance document for development plans of health establishments which will also be available at the same time. I have heard that someone in the debate is trying to create the impression that what the Storting decides today, and today's setting does not make a difference. That's wrong. It will all experience in the follow-up of the Enterprise Meeting on 4 May. Today, a proposal to give the counties a time-limited project responsibility for further development of health and care services is also being considered. Today, we have two levels of responsibility for providing health and care services to the population. These levels also have a separate responsibility for planning and organising services in the best possible way. The proposal, as I see it, will further disintegrate this responsibility and could lead to more ambiguity and more complicated cooperation. In this context, I would also mention that the aim of the municipal reform is to shift more power and authority closer to the inhabitants. Major municipalities will also have better conditions to plan and organise services in a good way. I look forward to starting the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the value of a highly decentralised healthcare service in Norway in the future. There is a broad stir to clarify the important role that smaller hospitals will play in future healthcare. The national health and hospital plan provides for the development of hospitals where hospitals will work more in teams, and larger hospitals will help to secure the basis for smaller hospitals. Our common goal is safe hospitals and better health care wherever you live. In this way, this national health and hospital plan makes an important contribution to creating the patient’s healthcare. The size of the population has now, through treatment, joined a new public health policy, a new policy for health services in the municipality through the primary health notification, a new pharmaceutical policy and a new policy for specialist healthcare. In this way, this has given a major boost to the development of healthcare in the years to come, and the title of all this work is: the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2594	The council concluded by saying that it was the patient's health service, and I agree with that. Acute surgery is about everyday life, it's about individuals, it's about security, and it's about preparedness – preparedness for the individual and overall preparedness. Neither the government parties nor the Left, nor the Workers' Party, are in favour of the proposal for a response time for the ambulance service. The air ambulance service shall return to Stortinget with a case in point. Enterprises are now to determine the future of emergency preparedness and emergency surgery of local hospitals. It's part of the security of people, especially in District Norway, and therefore they fight for the local hospitals. Where are the torches going? After all, this responsibility is returned to businesses. If an entity decides to close the emergency surgery, does this in the future become information to the Storing, or does the Storing participate in a decision on what will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2601	This national health and hospital plan is based on the principles agreed by the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, since we were in a position to vote on a proposal for a representative in 2011, namely that there are minimum requirements and principles relating to the content of hospitals to be included in a national health and hospital plan, not that the Storting should address the content of individual hospitals. We agreed on this in the 2011 proposal for a representative, we agreed on that in 2011 when we discussed the health and care plan of the previous government, we agreed on that when we dealt with the Health Business Act in 2012, we agreed on that in the 2013 budget position, and we also agreed on that when we discussed a proposal for a representative as late as in this enlargement period, in 2014. That the Christian People's Party now has a different view of it, I fully respect, but I think it would be unwise if the Stortinge should go in and decide on the contents of the individual named hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2606	I'm not among the politicians who think it's particularly fun to keep up with semantics, I think there's a lot more important things to discuss, and therefore I don't intend to spend time on it. I think it might have been in place if we had also had a government council that shows a certain dose of humility in some of the cases, where it is quite obvious to everyone else that he has had to turn around and leave the positions he had before. I think, for example: that Bent Höie was very good when he took self-criticism when he had promised to investigate the Oslo process in opposition. It wasn't a wise idea, he said himself. But when he sets up the sofa on TV 2 with cancer patients and promises them medications, he will not take self-criticism. Now we are on the move again, and the government has received full support for its entire arrangement in this plan – while everyone else believes the opposite. What is the State Council's comment on a proposal for a certain dose of humility in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2611	I belong to those who believe that it is sometimes clean to change the position, just as it is clean to change the underwear. But there is no reason to say that you have changed your position when you have not done so. What I think is a little strange in this matter is that the Workers' Party has a strong need to create the impression that I have turned around and felt something else, while at all stops they have expressed their agreement with me. If I've turned around, the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen must have turned around, too. When I gave my hospital talk in 2014, Torgeir Mikalsen said to Today’s Business that he agreed very much. When I presented the exact same thing in the National Health and Hospital Plan in the autumn of 2015, Torgeira Mikalsen said that Höie had taken the floor. Then we both have to think about it because we've meant the same thing all the way. When the Workers' Party presented its model in February, a short time ago, this was essentially the same as today's position from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, so we agree today as well. I don't understand this need to create an impression that I've turned around, and that we disagree, when we really agree on most of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2616	That's what's a little bit of a point. It is clear that I have no need to make any distinction between us and the government parties – and partly the Left – but it is because what was the Workers' Party's position has been embraced far on the way. I had thought it was a little eely, and the council had stood by whether he had just admitted it. When I said that I agreed with the Council of State in January and a half years ago, it was about how it is important not to support proposals that will freeze the structure and individual mergers in hospitals once and for all. When I said that the Council of State Höie had taken note in November when he presented the plan, it was because he had gone from a theory that hospitals had to have up to 60,000 inhabitants in order to have some emergency surgical functions – then the blacklist was down to 5,000. That's why I have the cover to say that you've taken to heart. But when we went into the matter, it turned out that there were a lot of resources in these hospitals that could be used in organizing emergency preparedness. Therefore I repeat the question: What about a certain dose of humility from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2622	I have no reason to show humility in a day when I am very proud. I am very proud that we parties that have fought for eight years in the opposition to have an operational national health and hospital plan, today it is adopted – and not only adopted with the parties that have fought for it, but have a position where the Workers' Party now agrees that this is a good idea, and that this should happen at four years' intervals. What I'm humble for is that this is the first plan, and that's why it's not perfect either. The next plan is going to be better because we're now, among other things. will have development plans in all regions on which the next plan can be based. With the next plan, we can also raise issues that we have not had the opportunity to raise well enough in this plan. I went through the list of the issues we had prioritised this time, but as the representative knows, it is not possible to deal with all the questions. What I'm humble for is that this is the first plan. I'm very proud of it, but it's not a perfect plan, it's going to be better the next time it's presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2629	In fact, the Right Party and the Centre have been a few about the need for a national health and hospital plan, a plan to ensure political management of the hospital sector. I react to the fact that the Council of State today says that it has never been an intention from the Right's side that one should determine which important tasks were to be added to each individual hospital. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September 2013, just before the elections, Erna Solberg stated the following: ‘As we have a National Transport Plan for Transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals.’ And on the other hand, ‘that the health plan to be drawn up will define the tasks of each hospital, also locally, for national reasons.’;» [[...]] My question is how Erna Solberg could say something like that if it was totally far away from politics to the Right. And does the Council of State agree that the debate is now going to go between health care agencies and the populace and residents outside the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2644	Through treatment today, the Stortinget will provide very clear guidance on how hospitals in Norway will develop. Each hospital in Norway will notice that this plan has been adopted. For example, it will now be a task for health regions to work because the larger hospitals contribute to moving tasks to smaller hospitals to maintain the foundations of smaller hospitals. A job like this has never been given before. It is part of a new hospital policy adopted today by the Stortinget – The Stortinget as the country’s top political authority. That means that this plan represents a strengthening of the democratic governance of the hospitals that the Right Party and the Center have agreed should have happened a long time ago. Then we disagree on models, and the Center Party wants to move more of the decisions to the Stortinget. This has never been the intention of the Right, and all the documents I referred to in my reply to the representative of Bollestad can be read and documented by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2651	When one listens to the debate, one may sometimes get the impression that the requirement that the Storting should address the future of emergency surgery in hospitals such as: has been mentioned on the Council of State's own list, is about a request for detailed management of small matters. But these are very important political issues that there is a strong public commitment around. It would have been possible, of course, to formulate minimum requirements in a way that would ensure the safety of these offers. The majority have not chosen to do so. Then the question remains where those who are now concerned about the future of their hospitals will turn. The right promised that the torches would get an address, that the address would be the Storting, and then the question is: The torches that now have to go, what address will they get?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2656	I think I've already shown as Minister of Health and Care that the right place to go in the torches is Stortinget. There can also meet me, outside of Stortinget, where I want to say that the decisions that are made, when we have gone to hospital, as we have done in Rjukan and Kragerø, are decisions that I take responsibility for, and that I do in the business meeting. I am not saying – contrary to what some of my predecessors have done – that this is not about a hospital because it is part of a health company, and it is the health company that is the hospital, or that this decision is a decision taken by a regional health company, and that is their responsibility. No, when that kind of significant change occurs, the people affected have been able to meet me in torches outside the Storting. So it is quite right that the Storting could have chosen today to adopt e.g. general surgery must be an absolute requirement for being an emergency hospital. It is fully possible, but the consequence of such a decision would be a significant centralisation of emergency functions in Norway, far beyond what I would recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2666	Then, in all humility, I would like to use my post to point out some features of the big right-hand story of the health sector, which Bent Höie, well the second of Erna Solberg, was the exponent for in opposition, and which has continued with a little wings until this day. A recurring theme in the health debate is the waiting time, which is also addressed in the morbidity plan. There is a cross-political agreement on the objective: that patients waiting for treatment should not wait too long, and that priority should be given to those who have, or may have, serious diseases or pains and major plagues. "Sometimes it hurts to wait," said the Health Minister in his blog today. I fully agree with him on that, and therefore it is important that the Minister of Health applies the entire repertoire of actions he has at his disposal to succeed. Here, he can benefit from being more concerned with public hospitals than with the privatization of the asylum – all of which cannot be seen succeeding. He has subdued the privatisation argument a bit in the national health and hospital plan, but the person who is used to reading the subtitle will see that it still stands out, several places in the plan. The right-hand story of waiting times is a funny story. Firstly, the level of precision is very low. Neither the Minister of Health nor any other figures for the government parties take on board what both the Directorate of Health and the Ministry of Health say: that waiting time statistics havebeen introduced since 2002, and until now, with considerable uncertainty and need to be used with great caution. But if we now go to the statistics – with the reservations that Höie's own department asks us to take – the long lines show that the waiting times for both somatics, rushes and psychiatry have fallen steadily into a falling curve from 2010 to today – I repeat from 2010 to today – including the last measurements that came a few days ago. The year 2010 may not be random. That was the year in which health businesses finally came into a budgetary balance, after the red-green government had financed the hospitals year after year and cleaned up the economic chaos we took over the hospitals in 2005. That's why it's getting a little embarrassing and pretty unfair when the Health Minister decides to spin stories that are supposed to imply to the public that the waiting times have gone down just under the blue-blue government. So it's wrong! Then I hear that the Minister for Health and also the case rapporteur today still argue that the number of patients waiting for treatment, or standing in a queue, as it is called, has fallen. Once again, I would like to point out that both the department and the directorate stress that the number of people on a waiting isolated basis does not tell anything about waiting or good operation, but is a snapshot. About 30 pst. of the treatments carried out in the hospitals are planned for treatment. So they're not acute patients. The planned treatment means that you will necessarily be on a waiting list. If we treat more people in Norwegian hospitals, more people will wait for the planned treatment – that is, more people are in line. It's uninteresting for the individual patient to know how many others are on a list, when that's the time you have to wait, which is the central one. Statistics are an important tool for getting knowledge and overview both for us as health policymakers, for hospitals and health administrations. But I really hope the Health Minister will eventually be able to remember when the temptation becomes too great to draw graphs and tables after the hairs to achieve political gain. We have many challenges related to receiving equivalent, rapid and qualitative treatment in the health sector. The waiting times are one parameter. But I also want to point out what patients and users often attract, namely that information and communication can be better. Being co-determining and fully informed about your own course of treatment is gold worth every patient. For many, this may be more important than waiting time. What's a little enjoyable is that it's the public hospitals that have made sure that the waiting times in patient treatment are reduced and that also stand for very good quality – precisely the hospitals that Minister of Health Bent Höie believes need juicy competition from various private providers. I would recommend to the Council of State to read in detail the comments made by the Workers' Party in the vote, with concrete suggestions on how we can further strengthen and make even better use of the public hospitals, our common healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2683	National health and hospital plan ensures a spine of hospitals throughout the country. We're going to have safe hospitals and good health care wherever we live. It should also be safe to give birth in Norwegian hospitals. The size does an important job today in adopting the first comprehensive national health and health plan. But Stortinget has worked well before, among others. in 2009, when the Storting dealt with the obstetrics obstetrics report, a happy event, as it hot. As rapporteur for Document 8:2 S of the Centre Party on ensuring quality in maternity care, it is nice to record that an overall committee indicates that an important effort has been made to develop the care of the child as a result of the Storing Communication in the previous period. It is also good that there has always been a broad political majority behind the choices made to anchor maternity and maternity care in municipalities. In Norway, we have good maternity care. Newborn mortality is low compared to the rest of Europe. Women in childbirth must experience safety and quality. Therefore, a Joint Committee also states that it is important that Norwegian food departments follow up on the reinforced quality requirements set by the Health Directorate Adviser in 2010, called a safe food supply. These requirements also include the follow-up of the woman at the active stage of birth. So even though quality is good, there will be challenges, and one of the challenges is that in large food departments there can be great variations on how many births you have through the day. It has, of course, some challenges related to manning plans. We have great respect for the competences of midwives and recognize the importance of their presence for women at birth and in maternity care. So we also listen to midwives who express concern for low - crewing during periods in the maternity wards, especially the major hospitals. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are clear in this case that health businesses need to develop crew planning systems that allow better management of the large variations in the number of births. The Health Directorate’s guidance is clear that women should have a midwife in their active phase. We know that the Minister of Health is following up health businesses on this, and that businesses are telling us that the recommendation is well-known and that it is actively working to achieve the goal. The national quality requirements set out in the 2009 Universal Health Notice and in the 2010 Health Directorate’s 2010 guidelines are determined by the National Health and Hospital Plan. In the health plan, we are clear that health businesses must ensure that the needs of food services for support functions are met. This implies anaesthetic presence on a daily basis and acute event and Caesarean surgery personnel. It is therefore assumed that there is surgery in hospitals with a maternity ward. There are good examples of well-functioning maternity wards in hospitals without emergency surgery. The vast majority of Stortinget wants birth care to be financed as we finance other somatic specialist health services through the basic allocation and effort-driven funding. It's going to be the guiding principle in the years to come as well and it's been completely independent of who's been in government, even those years the central party itself was in government position. I am proud that we, with the Right in Government, see very good results for the patients in the Norwegian specialist health service. A few days ago, the figures showed that there are 42 000 fewer people waiting in line now than they were in 2013. Patients with drug dependence have had their waiting time reduced by 17 days. And then you might be able to discuss from this speaker whether waiting times are a snapshot, and maybe not be so busy with this waiting time as the previous speaker was, but 17 important days for a motivated addict to get into treatment are important. Not since the last right in government, it has been shorter waiting time than now. That's the result of us prioritizing the work to bring down the waiting times. It means who controls, and it means something about how to prioritize. That the Stortinge today adopts the first national hospital plan is a new and important milestone in ensuring safe hospital services, no matter where one lives in this country. It's really a good day at work, this!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2713	The Nordics are largely a very peaceful people's behaviour, which looks a little remotely over the glasses and rarely engages in a loud fight for either one or the other. I can assure the President that this is absolutely not true when it comes to the hospital, because there is something that engages, is it just the question: What happens to my hospital, what happens to the hospital where I live? It's an engagement that affects us politicians. All the requests from people who are begging and praying, and even crying on the phone – of course it affects us, of course it upsets us, of course it affects us. And, of course, everyone who has been involved in the work of the National Health and Sickness Plan has experienced close contact with a small community and individuals fighting for – yes, just – their own hospital. However, sooner or later a decision has to be made which has consequences for a hospital offer, for employees and, of course, for patients. So, of course, not everyone gets it exactly as they want. That's the way it is in life, and certainly also in health and politics. Let me just begin by stating that we have a functioning health care system and good hospitals throughout our long-term country. The Norwegian health service is good, although there is always some event and history we would like to be in addition. But in the meeting between people things can go wrong, even healthcare professionals can make a mistake. Our goal is, of course, to reduce the number of misassessments to a minimum. That is why I am pleased that the government parties, in cooperation with the Left, are today behind a majority vote that ensures the adoption of a national health and hospital plan for the next four years, and that have in itself developments for the next 30-40 years in Norwegian hospitals. The agreement respects and strengthens the main objectives of the plan: safe hospitals and better health care, wherever you live. As has already been said from this pulpit: no hospital will be laid down as a result of the new plan. Estimated future scenarios are omitted, and there is a broad consensus that Norwegian hospitals are served with local management, who know best where the shoe prints. Here the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have been solution-oriented and have shown action in the Stortinget. It is important to ensure the dimensioning and quality of prehospital services as hospital tasks are changed. Any change in the division of duties between hospitals must lead to a simultaneous review of the capacity of the ambulance service. The proposed agreement between health establishments and municipalities on prehospital services shall be part of the statutory agreements between hospitals and municipalities. Interaction, cooperation, development, research and innovation shall take Norwegian hospitals in the right direction in the coming years, all the time under the label ‘patient’s healthcare’, which this government is so concerned about creating. Then it is also with great satisfaction that we see that 42 000 fewer people are in a health queue, compared to before the Right-Fremskrit party government took over. This suggests that much is done correctly in the Norwegian health system, a profit that should of course be shared between both responsible and executive policy-makers and all well-functioning health care staff, who each day ensure that someone is better treated through skilled and good care. There have been and will be many descriptions of their own excellence and others' mistakes in the debate here today, so I have not intended to contribute much to this. Let me therefore conclude by saying that I believe that everyone who has engaged in the work on the new plan has a burning desire for a Norwegian hospital service for the benefit of absolutely everyone. In recognizing that there may be different paths to the goal, we also have different approaches to how to get there. And it's not just about getting first, it's also about safe governance in sometimes difficult terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2736	It is interesting to see that there has been a significant political movement in this matter – from the launch of the plan until the committee position we are discussing here today. Some games go further than others. We in the Workers' Party assume that what we are adopting here today is to regard as clear guidance signals to the companies, especially as regards what has been the most discussed in the plan, namely the existence of the local hospitals and the emergency surgical offer. Thus, this is not a blank mandate for enterprises to interpret Stortinget at their own discretion, but rather an order from Stortinget, which we expect the Minister of Health and Health to follow up, which is intended to ensure a close and secure hospital offer. It is important that we politicians are representatives of the people throughout the country. It's not hard to understand that a safe, close and good hospital offer is one of the most important things for people. I even come from a part of the country where this has been clearly expressed in recent years through a strong and broad popular commitment to the hospitals in Arendal and Flekkefjord. I expect the Minister of Health and Care to give Health South-East – which, hopefully, will soon be split up – and the management of the Sørlande Hospital clear notification that the treatment of the national health and hospital plan in practice involves the further development and strengthening of all three hospitals in Sørlanden, also in Arendal and Flekkefjord. I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health to follow this closely. I want to address two other challenges in this article. The first is the public health perspective, the link to capacity and resources in the future. The other is the growing market share of commercial operators and what it will mean for equal opportunities for treatment in and resources to public hospitals, in particular the smaller hospitals. If we do not focus much more on preventive public health work in the coming years, the pressure on the health sector will be formidable. It is therefore incomprehensible that we have a government that has defined it far on the way only as the task of individuals to provide for their own health. Public health policy is about taking a broad responsibility not only for each, but also for the big community. Measures that we know work, for example, are fruit and vegetables, free meals and more physical activity in school – measures that the government says no. The consequences are obvious: poorer health in more and more pressures on the treatment system. Then it will be both an animal and a bad solution not to bet more on public health. There is reason to wonder whether growth in commercial hospital services and free treatment choices weaken public hospitals, and especially the smaller hospitals. There is no doubt that this draws both competence and financial resources out of our hospitals. There is reason to wonder whether this could not lead to a reduction in the number of hospitals, to a deterioration in the quality of public hospitals, and to particularly vulnerable patients with health challenges that are more complex and complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2751	It feels good to stand here today and experience that my Health Minister, from the Right, realizes it as long as the health and health plan is in demand. It is high time for Hospital Norway to have a comprehensive and concrete plan to help secure and develop its hospitals and specialist health care for the future. Good governance and planning is a prerequisite for good health care. It is therefore paradoxical that in all these years after the state took over the hospitals in 2002, the Stortinget has not been presented with a national plan to govern it. On the right, promoted in opposition, we asked the government of Stoltenberg to come to Stortinget with a national health and hospital plan. We were voted down again and again. In the meantime, we witnessed the closure of several local hospitals. The national health and hospital plan, which we are now treating, does not contribute to hospital closure. On the contrary, it will contribute to the strengthening of the smaller hospitals, in order to better meet developments and the needs of the future. People's expectations about quality and standards of health and care will have a major impact on how we plan not only the hospital structure, quality and content of the future, but also the quality of primary health services, near where people live. Employees and managers should therefore have good tools to monitor their own quality and to measure themselves against others. This information must be open to all, both health workers, patients and the outside world. Patients throughout the country must be sure that the services they receive are safe and of good quality. This must therefore apply to both public, private, small and large enterprises. The right went to the choice to create the patient's healthcare. For the first time in Norway, a health minister has promised to come to Stortinget with an annual report on quality and patient safety. The first came already in December 2014, and the second is now being treated here in the house. With the National Health and Hospital Plan and the Annual Quality and Patient Safety Notices, the Government has focused strongly on transparency and political awareness — and attention on quality and patient safety in national health policies. We are working on finding good models for the certification of hospitals, improving services and providing the patient with a more predictable offer. Quality and patient safety objectives that can be used in quality work at all levels shall be further developed. National quality requirements for treatment provision shall be established where this is necessary to ensure equivalent quality. We need to create better quality and safer services through hospital certification. A national network for professional audits in hospitals is also to be established so that professionals can study and learn from each other. Reducing the waiting time for patient treatment has always been one of the Right Tabacles. It is therefore very gratifying that new figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that waiting time has been reduced throughout the country, that a total of 42 000 fewer are now in health queues. That Health Mid-Norway, which I represent, has the country's second lowest waiting time, is also worth noting. Finally, I would like to refer to the setting, which states that there should be ‘a clear division of tasks between large and small hospitals’, while saying that ‘tasks that can be decentralised’ should be transferred ‘from large hospitals to smaller hospitals’. By decentralizing what we can and centralizing what we have to, we help to combine availability and quality in a good way. For me, this clarification is important given the hospitals in their own county, More and Romesdal, where the travel distance between, for example. The hospital in Ålesund and the St. Olav hospital in Trondheim is large and sometimes unfortunately very demanding, due to weather and traffic conditions. It's incredibly important that we manage to see the whole, so that a county without a university hospital also has good deals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2780	This is the first national health and health plan that we are adopting today. That's very important, because now you're going to have a strategy for how you think your health will look – what hospitals will look like in the future. I want to stop by one thing that has been common to many, namely that there are 42 000 fewer people in Norway who are in a health queue – 42,000 people in a year. It's the same thing as almost the entire municipality of Karmøy, to put into perspective how many individuals this is about, and what it means for those people who are no longer in line, because they have put this on the map and provided more patient treatment. That's great. And it's very important for the individuals who are no longer in line, because you choose to have a system that motivates the hospitals to operate more patients. I am very pleased that there is an offensive government that thinks effort-driven funding is a good way to solve some of the challenges, because in this way more patients will be operated on and patients will be operated on more quickly. Examples have been seen in the past when it was framework funding – which I heard the central party representative was concerned about – that the result was that when you didn't do anything and didn't operate patients, you had a good economy. It's a bad store for those in line. It is also important for us to find out that what this is actually about is that all patients in Norway should have an equivalent offer. So you could say: Is that possible – with that geography and the challenges we have there? We believe at least that this plan takes many steps, precisely to ensure that this is done in a good way. I record that very much of the debate is really about a few hospitals, where someone is trying to create more uncertainty and more uncertainty than at least that I think it should be justified, based on what is available. The majority have agreed that it is important that development plans be drawn up, whereby local authorities, together with enterprises, are allowed to be active. In addition, some of the things that have come into the agreement between the partners are to ensure that the major hospitals are given responsibility for having good cooperation with the smaller hospitals, which has also been a cause for concern. I am convinced that the municipality of Flekkefjord and the municipality of Kvinesdal, who are very concerned about their local hospital, rather than getting behind them, will be leaning forward to seize the opportunities in the hospital plan – what you can do to ensure that you can give a good offer to their citizens. Similarly, I am convinced that the four other hospitals – some of which are now in a very vulnerable position – together with local authorities and with businesses will do this in a very good way. Then it's a little weird -- because at least for me, it's like I'm really excited that the term is "patient's health care" -- that the Center Party has to change this to "people's health care". It is the patients who are important here – to ensure that patients who need it are treated, that they are the patients they are concerned with. I am also very pleased that in what the bulk of the population has now gone into, this is also the case with air ambulance bases. It's very important to look at the base structure and what this is going to look like in the future. I am very pleased that the committee points to both Telemark and the interior, which we know has poor coverage, based on the report that Norsk Luftambulanse made in 2013. So it's interesting to hear that many people are concerned about removing regional health businesses – at least some people think they're too big, and some people think we're giving them too much power. The parties that are now part of the majority want – and I believe that the Christian People's Party also agrees – to remove the regional enterprises, but you have to decide what the structure should look like, and that's what you'll get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2806	The health sector represents one of the most knowledge-intensive we have. At the annual dinner at the Council of State two years ago, we were presented with an ambitious process to provide the Stortinget with the best basis for determining the framework for future Health Norway. We really had expectations of the acquisition of knowledge and looked forward to challenging and exciting work to take wise action to meet the dynamic development we have in health, with new treatment options, new medical technology, patient involvement, the prioritisation of work on drugs and mental health, and how to ensure more holistic health services and treatment processes. It was therefore with sincere disappointment that we read the Storing Message. It was a little new. We missed ambitions for health. The discussion of the economy was, therefore, absent, although the funding systems play a major role in prioritisation, correct use of resources, and not least in achieving coherent treatment processes and investments. Recruitment and access to the right competences are at risk, although there are some of the most critical factors in providing good health care. Interaction with primary health services is mentioned only superficially, despite the fact that we have just addressed the primary health message and pointed out the importance of the specialist health service responding to the needs of the population for comprehensive health care. What we got was a schematic breakdown of hospitals into four categories and five named hospitals and a list of local hospitals that should no longer have emergency facilities, because the government thought that the population would get a better offer if the emergency response were centralised. The working party has visited all five hospitals plus Odda and has seen that reality is different from what was described in the messages. All these hospitals have undergone an adaptation in recent years. There is no evidence that they do not comply with quality and activity requirements. They have competent personnel, and the economy of Odda is green. They have developed emergency response models that are professionally and economically sound, with trauma and assessment competence to know how to deal with acute cases. Many suggest that today we have a sensible infrastructure in hospitals with professionally strong university hospitals, regional hospitals and local hospitals that enable us to meet the increasing demand for healthcare and build strong regions. It takes a long time to build good trade unions, even if it is quick to tear them down. It would be wrong to build them down as long as they meet both the activity and quality requirements. We know that the demand for health care is growing strongly in the coming years. We have to build on the good we have. The working party believes that the Stortinget should not control the individual hospital in detail, but we believe that we have given clear leadership that the five hospitals plus Odda have developed local models of emergency preparedness on which it should be further built. We share the concern of these hospitals that it is now up to health companies to carry out good and open processes that are reliable. In Hordaland, we have learned a lot from the process that has taken place between Voss Hospital and Health Bergen. They've done a good function distribution where you've done a good thing to each other. The most important thing to get this done has been openness and trust. I am therefore genuinely concerned when Health Fonna has chosen to set down two project groups, one for the Great Hospital and one for the Odda Hospital, without the Haugesund Hospital being involved. This reminds me more of split and mastery than trusting and open processes. That's what these hospitals need now, and not least the inhabitants and Health Norway. The Labour Party is also concerned about how government policy on free choice of treatment will affect the ability of regional hospitals to fulfil the societal mission of good functional distribution that ensures equivalent health provision throughout the country. The choice of treatment will primarily lead to the further establishment of private actors in the major cities, weakening the economy of regional hospitals and thus their capacity for good functional distribution. The working party is also concerned about the strong centralisation and construction of health bureaucracies that we have seen in recent years. This applies both centrally and in regional health establishments. The same applies to research environments. It's okay, we need strong, leading national programmes, but we also need funds to stimulate local research projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2827	The debate on the national health and hospital plan has been marked by emergency preparedness. Understandably, it's about people's sense of security. We want to build the patient's healthcare, and that also means a good emergency response. So we're just going to realize that we're adding different things to it. For me, it's mostly about being treated by experienced and competent health professionals when one first needs it. A good prehospital service is a central element of emergency preparedness. The acute chain does not work without safe patient transport. What used to be means of transport for sick and injured people is today almost a hospital on wheels or in the air. Ambulance services are now, in many cases, an integral part of the course of treatment. On the basis of this, I am pleased with the order we make today to the government regarding its own case on the base structure of the air ambulance. In this context, I would like to add something. Between fjords and mountains in Health West, there are ambulance helicopters on three bases: Stavanger, Bergen and Förde. But between Health Bergen and Health Stavanger we find Health Fonna with 175,000 inhabitants, but no air ambulance. Health Fonna has over 50 pst. more residents than Health Lead, but do not have their own ambulance helicopters. It won't last. When Fonna doesn't have his own helicopter, it goes beyond the health care companies south and north of them. It's Bergen or Stavanger who has to give up helicopter when we need transport missions to and from Haugesund, Stord or Odda hospitals, and similarly in cases where there are urgent missions in the area of call to Health Fonna. And these aren't rare cases. In recent years, on average, helicopter operations have been requested to the Health Fonna area at least 800 times a year — i.e. every day, at least — and that in a health establishment without its own base. Geographically, the area is among the larger in the country, and it is not among the least populous either. The geography of Haugaland and Sunnhordland is characterized by bumps and hammers, fjords and mountains. In the sea outside, there is a great deal of activity, and the country's most important coastline is swirling through the district. In many places it is difficult to get to by car, and we are still waiting for important road projects that will bind the region closer together. The board of Health Fonna has asked for ambulance helicopters. An overall local policy environment has asked for ambulance helicopters. The district emergency medical environment wants such a helicopter and has been an important driver for strengthening emergency preparedness. One already has a medical car that pulls out when needed, and the personnel there will also be able to mann such a helicopter. All the analyses show that there is a need for more helicopter capacity in the West, and then there's a certain logic in adding the next helicopter to the region that doesn't already have one. A base in Health Fonna will be able to relieve Bergen and Stavanger by major events there, and not enough with it, West-Telemark will also get better coverage at a base in Health Fonna. I hope the Health Minister will look at the need for a base in Health Fonna in the further work on the follow-up to the order we are making today. In this context, it must be pointed out that most of the activities of specialist healthcare are not carried out in the field of emergency medicine. Much of what is going on is planned intervention and treatment of chronic disease. Within most disease groups, the drug is under development. Specialization continues in line with that. This is perhaps the most prominent in cancer treatment. Health establishments are required to establish prostate centres where all radical treatments are to be carried out. In addition, diagnostic centres are established to optimise the quality of diagnostic and curative and palliative treatment. The prostate cancer association believes that the number of radical treatment centres in Norway should be reduced from the present number. They believe that the maximum should be five to seven, justified by the total number of surgical prostatectomys, which are approximately five to seven. 1500 a year. So here's a patient association asking us to specialise more and remove this kind of service from several hospitals. It's an interesting notion from those who are affected by one of our most common cancers. They don't want any more hospitals treating their disease, they want fewer and more specialised departments. When you get seriously ill, you don't always look for the nearest hospital, one will do the best. One will have routine, experience and expertise. That doesn't mean you're going to lay down several hospitals, that means you're going to specialise in several departments. Everybody can't get the best in everything, but everyone can get the best at something. I believe that good task allocation and more specialisation are important in order to create good hospital services throughout the country. This plan and today's decision add up to that. For the first time, the patient is the main person when we discuss the future hospital in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2857	We in the Workers' Party will develop our common healthcare service, where the foremost of medical expertise will be available to everyone. In the community hospital, it is the staff and their competence that is the most important resource effort. It's like 65-70 pst. of the efforts in the Norwegian specialist health service are the people, the heads and the hands who work there. One of the main concerns of the Workers' Party is that we should do so, which is to strengthen the competence of the health and care services as a whole. Hospitals play a major and critical role, and educational capacity must therefore be good, both on initial, continuing and continuing training, in order to ensure qualified labour in the future. Then we need to know as much as possible about the future needs, and we need to be able to develop and dimension the training provision precisely for future needs. It requires close and good interaction between health and education authorities. The Labour Party took action to improve this coordination when we were in government. We presented Meld. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Welfare Education — In practice, interaction, with an explicit objective that education should and must respond better to future skills needs and contribute to a high-quality healthcare service. Both the Education for Welfare Communication and the Health Care Strategy Paper21, which our government also presented, point to the need for a national cooperation body between health and education sectors. Some health companies work very well with recruitment and have close and good cooperation with educational institutions, but this can be better and more systematised. There is therefore also a need to revitalise the cooperation bodies regionally. This is the Guard of the Right and the Advance Party. The previous government took a clear hold of this, and the Stortinget agreed. There is no need to wait. I would also like to comment on what is happening outside the hospitals when we deal with this plan, when acute illness and damage occur. Today’s patients can receive advanced treatment even before they get to the hospital. Ambulance services are a very important part of healthcare, and the development of prehospital services has been raging in recent years. Today we have prehospital treatment facilities for acute diseases and injuries that were previously only given at the hospital. The example may be the treatment of patients with symptoms of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. The air ambulance is essential for the preparedness, effective treatment and transport of acute injury and disease. The help and treatment we can provide from an incident occurs until the patient is in a hospital, is essential to provide security for the population and to have the opportunity to provide equivalent services more independently of distance from the hospital. Municipalities and health businesses have different roles and responsibilities in this acute medical chain, and they need to cooperate well. It's crucial. It is important here that good agreements be made between municipalities and enterprises, which are concrete, and which act as a common planning tool. We believe it is a weakness that the NOU of the Emergency Committee, first and foremost, was presented only after the national health and hospital plan was submitted by the government. We have a good emergency response in Norway, but there is a need for a national lift to increase capacity and quality in the emergency chain. Of course, the plan proposes some things to achieve this, but we lack an overall approach. The Labour Party will also underline the need to look at the base structure of air ambulances, as several others have done in the debate today. Today we have so-called white spots on the map, more specifically in the interior and in Telemark. We have also made proposals that the government should come to the Stortinget with this. The Storting also has three other issues for consideration today, and I would like to add some comments to them, in particular to the representative proposal of representatives from Tingelstad Wøien, Pollestad and Toppe to ensure quality in maternity care and framework-funded food departments and women's clinics. Fortunately, we have good birth care in Norway. Child and mother mortality is among the lowest in the world. But there's a chance that needs to be defended every day – it doesn't come of itself. The Workers' Party will have a safe and secure maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway, and our government provided St.meld. No 12 for 2008–09, A happy event, which takes on the main political leaders in this area. The main conclusion of the notification was a significant strengthening of the offer, and the Stortinget was at the time concerned that the food supply in Norwegian hospitals should not be weakened for economic reasons, and asked the Minister of Health to direct regional businesses so that economic efficiency measures or reorganisation would not weaken the supply of food. The notification was followed up with a national consultant with quality requirements for food establishments. The decision of the European Parliament must be followed up, and it is the responsibility of the Government which is always in office, if they do not notify policy-making in this area. The government hasn't. They're on St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A Happy Event. But there have recently been several issues in the media where midwives are concerned about the situation at the food clinics, especially in the big cities. It concerns patient treatment, patient safety and the working environment of the main departments, due to low basic staffing. Several women have experienced being sent home after the birth has started, and that is not the way it should be. Economics shall not be heavier than the medical assessments in the maternity wards. Hospitals have received several hidden efficiency requirements with this government, and the government has also not strengthened the economy of hospitals, as they promised before the elections. It may be critical for mother and children, and this the Minister of Health must answer for and follow up on regional enterprises. It is very regrettable that food supplies are not allocated more space in the national health and hospital plan. Even if St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 from the previous government was thorough, food supplies are as important a part of hospitals as other functions, and they are part of a comprehensive hospital plan. I should therefore like to commend the rapporteurs for promoting this proposal for a representative. In commenting on the other two proposals for representatives from Stortinget, I would like to refer to other articles here in the Chamber and to the settings in each case – our comments and proposals there – and also to our comments and proposals for Announcement. St. 11 for 2015–2016, which has been the main debate, National Health and Hospital Plan. With regard to the proposal from the Left on a dream promise for regional health innovation and so on, I would also like to say that we will come back to dealing with the tasks of the new regions when the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs and of Modernisation presents the regional notification during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2893	Through the hospital address of the Council of State, to rely on a population base of 60 000 to 80 000 in order to maintain surgical emergency functions, yes, first of all there is a lack of professional justification and a thorough investigation of geographical conditions. In addition, the hospitals in this plan in Flekkefjord, Stord, Volda, Narvik and Gravdal were placed on a separate list where the hospitals would lose their emergency surgical preparedness. This was the background to what resulted in very strong reactions locally, with several thousand in torches around the country. On 11 February, the Labour Party presented its position on the plan. The greatest attention has been given to the five hospitals that entered the so-called red list of those who will lose their emergency surgery. Today, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, proposes, among others: that the Storting asks the government to disregard the principle of population limit. The Workers' Party also proposes that, through business meetings, the Council of State clearly indicate that one should ignore the scenario of hospitals that will lose their emergency surgery. In the case of emergency surgery, we have proposed a floor plank for it at the emergency hospitals, which Torgeir Micaelsen was in. At the same time, we emphatically stress in our remarks that this is an absolute minimum and should not be interpreted as something that governments and health businesses should steer towards as an objective. I have registered the statement to Left Ketil Kjeseth in the local authority Agder on 4 March that the hospital and emergency surgery at the hospital in Flekkefjord are safer than ever, and then Iselin Nybø said in the same newspaper on 10 March: ‘There is no doubt that the majority will retain Flekkefjord Hospital as an emergency hospital with emergency functions, including emergency surgery, since the Health and Care Committee of the Stortinget has given its opinion. [[...]] [[...]] Only Sørlanden Hospital and Health South-East must deal with this." On March 15th, Kari Kjønaas Kjos said to the same newspaper: ‘Towards this is correct’. The development plans will now be reviewed, based on the clear expectations of the Storing. The working party states that these discussions should not start with what is to be done, but with how we can better organise ourselves. Processes shall be carried out and municipalities shall be involved. Disagreement shall be directed to the Minister of Health, who shall be responsible for the fulfilment and implementation of Storting’s expectations. Today I want to challenge the partners: Can one now expect, based on the statements I referred to earlier in the post, given to local media, and through the majority decision that is now reached after the conciliation between the parties, that the emergency surgery will be at Flekkefjord Hospital in the future? And does that mean that the Council of State in its Business Meeting on 4 May with Health South-East sends clear signals that now, when Sørlanden hospitals will soon update their development plan, this will be done through a good and involved local process? And if what I'm not taking up here is commented on, I assume that it's the point of view of the partners and becomes the current policy, and that it will then create the peace that Ormmen Johnsen here said that we could get through this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2921	National political debate may at times be rather petty. Each individual party has been far more concerned with short-term populist ownership rather than taking joint responsibility for how we optimally manage Community resources, in this case the specialist services. The left could of course have skipped negotiations with the government party on the health plan, put us on the sideline and our clean and white. And then the Center Party, which is now using what they have to disapprove of to criticise and sanction crisis, knows that there would probably have been a multiple here in the Chamber for a decision that had not taken care of the values, the hospitals, I believe the Center Party has been committed to, as well as today's decision will make. In reality, the Left has been struggling to give hospitals security and long-term security, which they could hardly dream of in less than eight years with red-green plurals in government. Where was the Centre's commitment and action for the hospitals in the years they were part of the plural and put into government? Take one of the hospitals in my homelands, Odda, a hospital and a community that really has to live with insecurity, and where the rule of the previous period was remote control and the gradual collection of content and services. The hospital in Odda is today so reduced that if they lost their daily shelter in addition, it is probably the basis of the hospital gone away. And of course, Odda's going to have a hospital. When the Left and the Majority today remove the popular requirement and emphasize geography and topography further, and strengthen the economy, the acute surgery in Odda is for all practical purposes secure. In addition, the rule is now localised. And if the corporate governance could expect it, if it doesn't perceive such a marked increase, then there are additional two security valves – municipal counterparts of changes in the tasks and contents of a hospital, and reporting obligations for the health minister when changing the tasks. Understood: The Storting has every right to intervene and override decisions reported by the Minister of Health. So today is not only a happy day for Norwegian health and hospital policy, but also a happy day for small hospitals like Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2936	The Minister for Health has presented a national health and hospital plan containing a list of hospitals that could lose emergency surgery. This list naturally generated enough reactions in your local environment, including: because a fear that the uncertainty it created would harm the recruitment of key personnel. In this way, some of the damage may have happened. But then I also listened to the Minister of Health, in this case at Stord hospital, where he strongly stressed that this list was not to be perceived as a direct signal of termination and removal of function, but was only a scenario, an illustration of what could result if they were agreed upon in the Stortinget. So now you have a removed list of the scenarios, but you have kept them in a slightly different sense. Today, we also even heard the Council say that the new wording is in line with his intentions. Then I ask you to understand that many of us are a little surprised when representatives of the committee's plurals make this as if the emergency surgery is in the local hospitals. I would like to refer to one of the chief trustees of the nurses of the Stord hospital, and I must allow myself to modify the wording a little, in order to ensure that I stay within the Parliamentary acceptable. Hennar's censure was that this is the same content in new wrapping. And as long as one continues the categories ‘large emergency hospital’ and ‘acute hospital’, and in addition, acute surgery is linked to such loose wording as ‘when the patient’s mind makes it necessary’, I must agree with her. Then both she and I were delighted that the Storting should be informed about significant changes in tasks and structure. But what should be the Biggest's task? So this is not, as it has been said, a question of detail management, but of fundamental questions about the structure of health services — actually also about community structures. So there is one question that I might well ask myself to be answered by the representative of Mr. Örmen Johnsen: if in the near future one of the health professionals in the country comes to the conclusion that they will have an emergency surgery in one of the hospitals, and the reason why the care of the patient no longer makes the offer necessary, can the representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen then, today and from this pulpit, promise that the Right Government Party will ensure that the matter is dealt with and settled in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2949	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding. We're talking about red-listed hospitals, as if they're the hospitals that are particularly protective. It's fundamentally wrong. The local hospitals we fight for are blacklisted hospitals. That's an important point. The Centre Party has provided the people's health service, a network model where local hospitals cooperate with the central hospitals as a hub in relation to the oak in a wheel. We have presented a funding with framework funding, and we have presented a focus on management – a local management with professional responsibility for quality, with budgetary responsibilities and with the personnel responsibility of all public employees working in the group called a hospital, an operational management philosophy with more responsibility and power out to the professionals, and where the main thing is the meeting between treatment and patients. Management and support functions must all be set up to promote this purpose – the patient-treatment meeting. The purpose of this debate was to clarify one’s position, including: on the content of local hospitals and the prioritisation of investments. We didn't get any of the parts. On the contrary, health businesses are given decisive power, while the Health Business Act allows the Council to continue to rule in secret, as explained in the Committee on Control in the case of More and Romesdal health companies. There's no progress, but there's a progress in that way that outside this house there's more people now understanding what's happening, and so the level of consciousness is increased and the possibilities to continue this game are smaller. In the case of local hospitals, the nucleus is the contents of hospitals. The Legion and the Center are in agreement. We're talking about what's going on for surgical emergency preparedness. As government parties put it, professionals may face situations where complications may arise for in-house surgical patients. There must be assessment preparedness for patients entering the emergency room with unclear conditions and it will be necessary to have life-saving emergency surgery. How it can be done without emergency surgeons on guard, we don't understand. I ask the Council of State to come up with references to professionals who are doing well to ensure that the model presented here by the government can be implemented without emergency surgery. That is at the heart of the debate, and the Council of State must answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2962	Good maternity care, a safe supply of food and close follow-up during childbirth are essential to ensure good health for mother and child. Among the areas where the national health and hospital plan treats the most voiced are maternity care. If what people know is crucial for their local preparedness, it's the food supply. 20 lines in a national health and hospital plan on one of the most important tasks the hospitals do not perform. Of course, the consequences for the supply of food during conversion to the hospital service must be investigated. The government must be sure that no changes are made to food supplies that make it difficult to meet the quality requirements of maternity care. Health enterprises are also required by the Storting to draw up a multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plan for the provision of food and maternity care in the regions. Health undertakings have been responsible for the accompanying service for several years. It raises concerns about whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare prioritises maternity care sufficiently to meet quality requirements when women’s clinics, maternity wards and maternity wards have such a negligible place in the national health and hospital plan. Hospital structure, organisation and funding solutions make important premises for maternity care, and, in particular, in the large food clinics, the manning situation is critical. We need a boost for maternity care for natives throughout the country to ensure safe food for mothers and children, to reduce the number of complications and cesarean cuts and to increase the breast feeding rate. Birth care in Norway has been significantly centralised in the last 30 years. On a journey of more than 90 minutes, there are still far too few people on a follow-up service. The large food clinics in cities are often full, and women in active birth experience rejection every year and had to wait at home. In the survey published on March 8, this year, the Peasant League answers 94 pst. by midwives that the quality requirements, such as the presence of a midwife in the active stage of delivery, are not complied with, and 58 pst. responds that sometimes, often or very often, they are unable to have adequate monitoring of their mother during birth. Complications are presented through the input-driven funding. Bleeding during childbirth triggers the payment, while good ground crew who can prevent bleeding, does not. The provision of food is today financed as hospital beds, but the unpredictability of births means that an emergency offer is needed. The centre party believes that the care of the child must be well-funded and properly staffed as an emergency post. We propose this for the Stortinget. We also suggest that the government should ensure that the quality requirements for food institutions are implemented from 2010 in terms of both organisation and performance. And we're asking the government to oblige health companies to ensure that all birthing a midwife is present during the active part of birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2977	Where hospitals are going to be and what content they are going to have is to facilitate equivalent services across the country. Citizens shall be guaranteed an accessible and qualitatively good hospital offer irrespective of their place of residence. Decentralised hospital services in Norway are necessary to create equivalent services. To do this, the small hospitals also need to be strengthened, not weakened. It is therefore a national task to ensure comprehensive care for the smaller hospitals as well as a good and predictable economy. There is good professional evidence to claim that there is an important internal connection between surgery, anaesthesia, radiology, internal medicine and laboratory services. Dismantling the acute surgical competence will affect the whole and will make the patient less available. If a hospital no longer has an acute surgical watch, many inpatients will not be accepted locally either. It is therefore amazing that the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Left, facilitate the removal of emergency surgery in local hospitals with this function today, even if the service is of good quality. Instead, they talk from these three parties about an acute-surgical assessment competence and acute-surgical offer that narrows down special areas. If a minor hospital is only to treat a specific type of emergency injury, where is the preparedness for the population? Do the government parties and the Left really think it's good enough to ensure surgical preparedness in a selected medical area? With the majority of the hearing bodies in their backs, the Christian People's Party has stood up to the demand to ensure emergency surgery in all hospitals that have this function today. I understand that some big business representatives who are supposed to defend the majority's views in this area are starting to become uncertain about what they really are into. For the newspaper Agder 9 March d.o.b. Mr Ketil Kjenseth replied to the question from the paper whether he has received confirmation from the Right Party and the Advance Party that the hospital in Flekkefjord must still have emergency surgery: "I don't think I'm going to go into it any more, or the extent of what the criteria mean. Such clarification is to demand a little bit of me as a big-time representative. [[...]] Health companies must do the job of clarifying where to go’. The issue is that when a representative of the majority of the population cannot resolve such an important question about a hospital that has had emergency surgery as long as it has existed, is still to have this function or not, and instead must refer to the health company, it must be clear to everyone that in the case of acute surgery, all power has been transferred from this room to the health company.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e2996	The progress party has finally received its extended hospital plan. One of the reasons it's been very important to us is the predictability and security it gives to the people who need their hospital. Over the years, a number of hospitals have been closed down, and even more have changed their structure — without at all a long-term plan of what hospitals should do, what needs exist, and not least who should do what and where. For 20 years of investigations, both through NOUs and large-scale reports, there has been a similar message: how emergency functions should be adapted in the smallest hospitals. Nevertheless, several smaller hospitals are closed, both in Eastfold, Agder, Vestfold and Sauda in Rogaland, without an overall long-term plan. So it's the coincidences that have prevailed. That is why I am very pleased that it is a broad majority for what is available today. In fact, I believe that it will also strengthen the smaller hospitals, such as. that in Flekkefjord and Stord hospital. For the Progress Party, it is important to maintain security among the population, but also for the employees. In the media we read about closure jokes, while in this plan it is not proposed to lay down a single hospital. Today, we also agree that the smallest hospitals have the opportunity to influence their content and structure. I really hope that this opportunity is seized, and that we can now fold up the sleeves and look forward to predictable years for the country's hospital. Demography is changing, and new times require new solutions. There are several elements of this plan that are important parameters for years to come, including: sufficient qualified personnel. Regional health businesses are now becoming important contributors to the development of a national hospital staffing model. All batches, except the Centre Party, consider this to be a useful tool for assessing and implementing measures to reduce the risk of shortages of health professionals and to meet future needs in a better way than at present. We are pleased that the plan also raises new medical speciality aimed at the emergency receivers. In many cases, which competence meets here can be decisive for rapid and proper treatment. I look forward to finding a model of new medical speciality in the receptions, which can make the smaller hospitals even better equipped for the future. In this case, a lot of good proposals have been made. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal for a separate case on the base structure of the air ambulance. In this regard, I would like to remind both the government and the magnificence that Health Fonna, which covers 175 000 people, is the only healthcare company in the country without medical helicopters. The decisions we make in this case, I believe, will contribute to both security and predictability in the services – for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3017	The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need a hospital plan that ensures proper preparedness. Until now, most smaller hospitals have had acute surgery. I want to raise one of these smaller hospitals, Volda Hospitals. Volda hospitals can refer to hospital functions with good quality. But it has its challenges. These include: not a continental connection to Ålesund, which is the nearest hospital. This is one of the reasons why Volda needs to be secured in the future. Violence has a lot to gain from working with other hospitals, for example: The hospital in Ålesund. This is the case today, and so they can also maintain the competence of the services they provide. A full and complete health service will make an area more attractive. It'll also be more interesting to work there. The hospital will play an important role in the future. As the Medical Association warns against, it could be problematic to operate an intra-medical offer without full surgical competence. Kari Ristesund, a 72 - year - old woman, has collected 12,000 signatures on the South Sunnmare as a clear requirement for the population to keep emergency preparedness. Former director of Health Midth, Marthe Styve Holte, points out that it is irresponsible to lay down emergency functions at Volda Hospital. Geography, weather conditions and travel time are important factors to take into account. Available services are a key quality indicator. It does not help to have good services if they are not available to the local population, especially when the minutes are too short. The reduction of emergency preparedness may seriously affect the population of vulnerable areas. Emergency preparedness has not gone off, it needs to be as sore as before. Perhaps the government would have been somewhat more optimistic on behalf of the smaller hospitals if they had listened to people like Mrs. Ristesund and Mrs. Styve Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3032	There have been high expectations of the national health and hospital plan. Most of the questions have been referred to it for a long time. The answers were to be in the plan. I think, unfortunately, that it will not be put on the question front even after today. The national health and health plan should provide answers. In the interior, we are still waiting for answers to why psychiatry is being reduced, answers to why the golden rule of higher growth in psychiatry and drug use does not apply to the interior. Today, newspaper headlines say that psychiatry cuts amount to 120 million. kr over three years. Only the first year was cut more than what was added to the Hospital Inland, SI, during the previous flight plan. I expect the Council of State to go into this. If it is not to be interpreted as if the Council of State believes that it is right that the psychiatry in the interior is being built down. Within a budget of more than 140 billion. kr should be possible to find solutions to remedy the situation, if the Council of State so wishes. The interaction reform was a proper step for better division of labour between municipalities and specialist health services. An important target group for the reform was the chroniclers, those who often need follow-up. Several locations in the country have established good local medical centres targeting the target group. Many people get good treatment at such centers. It reduces the burden on patients who otherwise have to travel far to receive treatment. When specialists leave where people live, it makes the offer more accessible to more people. Unfortunately, the national health and hospital plan says little about such offers. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee addresses this, and I assume that all the local medical centers are developing. In Uppland, the local medical centre of Otta is as important as it is in Valdres, and I expect the Council of State that owns regional health companies to give signals that health businesses should be an active partner for both old and new centres when they wish to be established. But I think it's necessary to look at the tariff system for specialist health care. We get reports that the fare system is a handicap in getting good decentralised offers. Finally, we need to do something about the aviation ambulance service. This applies in particular to the hinterland. We have to put in place acceptable solutions. I therefore expect a great deal of welcome on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3045	The centre party believes Norway should have a decentralised specialist health service. Living patterns, geography, weather and wind make this a prerequisite for good preparedness in Norway. Proximity also increases the quality of health services provided by the population throughout the country and contributes to less pressures in major cities. The smaller local hospitals provide good treatment for the most common cases of patients and, in addition, small business benefits such as pleasure for patients, satisfaction for relatives, lower unit costs and a shorter route to the community health service. When the local dermal space amounts to 60-75 pst. of all patients in Norwegian hospitals, reaching 50-70 pst. Of all patients admitted for immediate help, treatment can be completed at the local hospital level — yes, we need to strengthen local hospitals, not weaken them. The interaction reform has given the municipalities more and more complex tasks; the municipalities need the local hospitals. We are too far away from the objectives of better cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services. If the local hospitals are weakened, we'll be further away. The centre lot will fill the local hospitals with content and secure recruitment. Local hospitals shall be able to carry out normal surgical and intra-medical investigations, treatments and interventions and provide security of local preparedness. The thinning is a very good example of a hospital that has strengthened itself by performing planned treatment for far more patients than those in their exposure area. It is essential for the maintenance of emergency surgical preparedness. The centre will have more cooperation between large and smaller hospitals on the planned treatment. The government's obligation to health care companies to submit more bids is a direct threat to such cooperation. The specialised tasks of hospitals are already centralized, and no one believes that everyone should do everything. The medical association believes that hospitals must have the minimum daily preparedness for acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-rays and laboratory services. The centre party supports the Lege Association in this respect. The national health and hospital plan and the setting create uncertainties for the future offer of Orkdal Sjukehus. It is referred to that the health care provider is investigating future services at Orkdal, and that there is a short way to St. Olav's hospital. The majority will entrust the health enterprises and the councils of state to the corporate meeting to decide on the future of Orkdal Sjukehus. The centre party believes that Stortinget must take responsibility for and position on the future of Orkdal Sjukehus and propose it. I call on the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. Lifts given locally and nationally from different parties to ring about the Orkdal Sjukehus are not worth anything without voting for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3062	The National Health and Hospital Plan, submitted to the Stortinget every four years, shall inform the Storting about the status and challenges of the specialist services and enable the Stortinget to take the most important decisions on the further development of hospitals. The aim is to create security for the population in all parts of the country and in the concrete demands for content in our hospitals. For the Progress Party, it is important that the plan facilitates the continuation of a decentralised hospital structure in Norway, with a backbone of an emergency hospital. One of the bigger grips expected is to put in place a new governance model, and it's a goal to remove the regional health care providers, which I fully support, on the basis of having their board member there over several years before I came to the Storting. The NOU will be delivered on 1 December 2016, and the government will come back to Stortinget in spring 2017 on how the matter will be followed up. So until the fight for the smaller hospitals: the right-wing party government and the state councils have been clear that even smaller hospitals must have a larger supply if distance, climate and preparedness make it necessary, which is the case for my local hospital in Volda. This hospital also has our bodyguard for whole Outer South Sunnmare with its heavy industrial and yard environment as well as a large maritime fleet. Therefore, I am pleased that it is a central goal in the plan to strengthen local hospitals, not weaken them. The aim is that local hospitals should be better equipped to provide care for those patient groups who will need to increase the need for hospital services in the future. The plan should also ensure that we maintain a highly decentralised hospital service, and it is established that no hospital should be closed as a result of the plan. This government has facilitated higher patient treatment growth in its three budgets, higher than the previous government has been adopted over its eight years, and that results for patients. Waiting time goes down, more people get help, and fewer patients wait for treatment. When the waiting lists are reduced by over 40,000 patients, it shows that they are Monnar. Nevertheless, the Labour Party has a type of rhetoric that shows that they are more concerned with political games than with what kind of policies they actually represent, and it is very unclear what the Workers' Party's 'third way' means. One conclusion we can draw from experience, and that is that several hospitals were laid down under the red-green government, without the Stortinge had the possibility to adopt them overarching the political leadership of hospitals and the hospital structure. So I read in my local way, Sunnmørsposten, that the Center Party's Jenny Klinge has mountains of Volda Hospital and almost points to the representatives from Sunnmøre, so it's going to be exciting to the right of the next post. If it is that the hospital is the rock for all future and the Center Party has been there for it, they should probably have clarified it earlier and not expected as long as they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3075	I might like to encourage the representative Grimstad to read well before he starts quoting from media publishers. I certainly have not said that Volda Hospital is a mountain. I can't do that, because I'm not in the plural here in Stortinget. What we could read in More-New on March 5th this year was that Volda is not being peaced. It also said: «Right, Frp and Left have entered into a hospital agreement. It provides no guarantees for Volda hospitals.» People in More and Romesdal are used to living in uncertain ways for their hospitals. The exposure among people appears in the form of, among other things, Took a torch when the threat to hospitals increases, and before Christmas there were 10,000 people who went to the torch for Volda hospitals. The majority of the parties try to halt the torch with the wording that the so-called ‘acute hospital shall have trauma preparedness and, in general, emergency surgery when housing patterns, distance between hospitals, car, boat and air ambulance services and weather conditions make it necessary’. Violence in hospitals becomes a so-called emergency hospital after this. That means that the hospital can have emergency surgery, but not that it should. Both the majority party and the Labour Party argue that decisions on the contents of hospitals and investments should be taken by the non-publicly elected businesses and the Enterprise Meeting. People are entitled to equivalent health and hospital services throughout the country. Violence in hospitals is an important hospital, providing patients with good quality treatment and preparedness. Accepting the bulk of the population that the acute surgery supply is being reduced here means, in practice, a weakening of the patient supply on the South Sunnmare. The centre party therefore makes proposals in Stortinget today to ensure that Volda Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital. The centre party will end with unclear formulations in the hospital policy. It creates confusion, frustration and political contempt. The local hospitals with recruitment problems often have it just because one has not had guarantees for the future. The local hospitals that experience being down-prioritised by the maternity care unit are often the same hospitals that have the down-span. «The hospitals currently offering emergency surgery will continue to have this where necessary and if they are able to maintain good quality and patient safety.» It said the head of the Health and Care Committee when submitting the agreement between the pluralities. I can assure Kjønaas Kjos that Volda Hospital can last both quality and patient safety. However, in order to allow healthcare professionals to assess the need for emergency surgery, it is easy for some hospitals providing good and necessary services to be deprived of important emergency functions. I want to encourage the Stortinget to vote in favour of the Central Party's proposal to secure a fully-fledged Volda Hospital today, because it's our job on Stortinget to also make sure that there aren't always people in the districts who lose this fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3105	Today, we are to adopt the National Health and Hospital Plan. That's good. The majority join the definition of hospitals proposed by the government. The batches do not require emergency surgery to be a requirement for a hospital, but that emergency surgery is something that may be an offer if necessary. The Norwegian Medical Association, as several have referred to, has warned against the proposal. They believe that the combination of the specialities of internal medicine, surgery and anaesthesia is a prerequisite for good professional quality in diagnosis and treatment of emergency patients in hospitals. In addition, hospital access to radiology and laboratory services must be ensured. This plan doesn't change anything. The majority may be at peace with hospital buildings, but the offer is still in the same danger as before. What does it help if the hospital building is in place, if the content is weakened or if it disappears? This is a dangerous agreement for the local hospitals at Gravdal and Narvik, in my county, and which now, in my view, is yet another step closer to losing some of the good offers they have today. The centre party believes that the plan is characterized by many fine words, but it does not imply a change in the governance signal of health companies. The majority believe that emergency surgery can be maintained if quality and patient safety are maintained. There's no guarantee. When Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital were closed down, quality and patient safety were precisely the responsibility. But the real reason was probably the dream of centralization and the idea of saving money. The fact that the majority believes that hospital without emergency surgery can still be responsible for surgical preparedness is not credible, for how can doctors assess serious cases while refusing to work with immediate help? Norway is a long-distance country with mountains and fjords and a lot of weather, not to mention storms, which we have a lot of in the Nordic region. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes that the government should ensure that Gravdal and Narvik hospitals are further developed as fully-fledged local hospitals with minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened through better task allocation. Both Gravdal and Narvik hospitals are important hospitals in their regions. If the emergency surgery offered here increases, it means a strong weakening of both preparedness and patient services in Lofoten and Ofoten, respectively. I also think it is important to note that prehospital services are an important part of the emergency chain. Response time isn't gonna make it today. You're far from many places. And the health care company I know best, Health Nord, is now working on moving the ambulance, so that you get even longer time to call than today. Therefore, I think it is absolutely necessary to establish regulatory requirements for response time based on the emergency committee’s proposal for national response times for ambulances.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3126	The question of emergency surgery has been an acute question in many places, including: in Flekkefjord. For the Left, it is an important point that the size cannot be responsible for the quality of these services. Doing something else will limit the abolition of the business model, and there is a completely different discussion from that of the health plan. But it's the Storting's job to give some clear signals that the Council of State has to make sure is followed, and in the case of emergency surgery, we've done just that. Firstly, it is now quite clear that no hospital will be closed. This in itself is an important security for many of the small hospitals. Thus, the requirement for a population base of 60 000 to 80 000 has been removed. Furthermore, it is established that emergency hospitals, such as Flekkefjord Hospital, shall have an acute function in internal medicine, anaesthesiologists in a 24-hour watch, planned surgery, preparedness for surgical assessment and stabilisation and management of acute events. Hospitals shall have trauma preparedness and, in general, emergency surgery facilities whose housing patterns, distance between hospitals, car, boat and air ambulance services and weather conditions make this necessary. Hospitals with acute surgical services, such as Flekkefjord, will continue to do so when the needs of patients so require and quality and patient safety are taken into account. No one can predict the future. This medical plan shall include, inter alia: shall be rolled every four years. In addition, roads are being built and medical technology is evolving steadily. For many years, state councils have been elected to the Stortinge from Rogaland and know the relationship between Stavanger and Kristiansand very well. And even though the state council has now ruled with the Progress Party for two and a half years, there is in no way a quadruple highway between Kristiansand and Stavanger yet. The conditions vary according to the season, but it has to be calculated at the base of two hours of driving both to Kristiansand and to Stavanger from Flekkefjord. It is the task of the healthcare company to maintain the quality of the services, but there can be no doubt that, on the part of Stortinget, there is a clear indication that hospitals such as Flekkefjord Hospital should maintain the emergency function. This is the task of the Council of State to follow up. Some have also created uncertainties about who should determine the fate of Flekkefjord Hospital when it comes to emergency surgery. Many are afraid that the health business will trample the offer in such a way that there is no longer a health professional offer, and that the health business can then, with a good conscience, close the emergency surgery. I have faith that the Council of State will follow up the leaders who come from Stortinget, so that Flekkefjord retains his emergency functions, for a struggle between Stortinget and the Council of State is no good in this matter. I am also pleased that Flekkefjord Hospital is appointed to try out the new specialty in emergency medicine. They have both the professionalism, the versatility and the leadership to succeed in such an attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3137	The left has taken on the role of the leading health care rescuer and believes that this is a responsibility where all other parties are caught. They use as an argument for the hospital agreement with the government party that they are going to scare Sjukehus-Noreg from an agreement with the Labour Party, and they are going to frontal attacks on the Christian People's Party that ended the negotiations and put their feet down as they did not get through mandatory formulations of acute surgery. The left's Step Skei Grande said so in the Lageendalspost before the 9th of September 2015: ‘The fate of the local hospitals depends on the treatment of the Stortingen government’s proposal for a national health and hospital plan, which was expected to be presented during the autumn of 2015. The left of the Storting will be important for the final result.’ Unfortunately, Trine Skei Grande got straight. The left is the very reason why several local hospitals may now be at risk of losing the acute surgical supply. The left is also the reason why the government's privatisation line lives on. With the Left as a supporting party, the government requires public hospitals to purchase more patient treatment from commercial private operators. These are not established in the districts, but around the cities. The left provides such a set of two things at once: both centralizing and privatising basic hospital services. The consequence will be a failure of preparedness, a weakening of the environment of competence and a longer route for many. Moreover, the Left does not respond to the fact that the large hospitals in the cities are packed with Corridor Asians and have a coating percentage far above the defence requirement and a birth supply that makes midwives go on March 8th, the hospital policy also goes beyond the supply of those who live in a central strike. Left nectar sets a defence claim to the level of cover of Norwegian hospitals, so that new hospitals are too small before they are finished. The left also accepts a hospital plan that does not say a single obligatory word about investment in construction and equipment or what level of funding is needed to ensure the necessary patient treatment, preparedness or prevention of maintenance. The left is also responsible for the patient-friendly way of financing hospital services. Today it's 50 pst. input-driven financing. A few weeks ago, the Left in the media said that this had to be changed for the benefit of local hospitals, and today they are fighting against this. The whole thing seems very little trusty. The most inconclusive plan of history for hospitals is adopted by the Right, the Progress Party and the Left by giving back all power to health care professionals whom they themselves chose to resign. As it is now, the Labour Party option would actually have been a step forward, at least it is more honest on its policy – contrary to the Left, which says that they will protect the acute surgery by deciding that hospitals do not need it. To Terje Breivik: The centre party makes a concrete proposal on Odda, and if he is concerned about Odda, he should vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3153	I think I have to put down everyone who has talked about waiting times and waiting lists and who may not be able to show what the difference is, a visit. We have to distinguish between the terms ‘vent lists’ and ‘wait times’. The waiting lists are primarily a tool for those who are going to administer treatments at our hospitals, and also for us as politicians, but the waiting times are what are important for the individual patient. I am very happy when I hear the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen say what I knew before: that the waiting times have decreased by a significant number of days for TSB patients. That's very nice. We also had a decrease, not quite so big, but a pretty big decrease between 2011 and 2012, and then this has varied internally in one year and from one year to the other. The long story of the waiting time curve – if we look from 2010 to today – is a steady decline. It's just going in and looking at the Norsk Patient Register, you see that. But then you must not draw those reasonings after your hair. We have to listen to the Health Directorate and the Department who say that there are, of course, some weaknesses in these statistics, they don't tell the whole picture, and of course they don't when it comes to the number of people waiting for treatment. We have to go in and look at what people this is, how many more do we treat, and maybe we're preventing more? If there's far fewer waiting, why don't the waiting times go down more than they do? All of these connections need to be looked at a little bit more. Then it's like driving and twittering a little bit, and I've tweeted a little bit with this health minister. And if we're going to take the long run -- it's a little small to take now, but I thought we'd have to take it: from 2002 to 2005, there were some bad statistics, but the waiting times went down. What didn't go down was the deficits, they went up. Therefore, the civil government introduced a ceiling on the number of treatments in 2004, so when we started in 2005, we had a large deficit in hospitals and a ceiling on the number of treatments. And yes, Minister of Health: the waiting times went up until 2009/2010, when the economy was so well in place. The red-green government had spent a lot of money in hospitals, and from 2010 onwards – if we look at the statistics of the Norwegian Patient Register and at the long trend – we see that waiting times go down. We're going to enjoy it together, we're going to enjoy it together, but stop using it in an unreasonable argument. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3164	Yeah, it's getting closer to the end. We have had a thorough debate, and not surprisingly, there is an emergency offer in the small hospitals that has been in focus. Maybe we should talk a little bit about the major hospitals as well, where you work with research as well as with innovative methods, but I'll leave it to you. I note that the Labour Party has had great expectations of the plan and that it is disappointed. Then I think it's really just making your own plan – you have resources to do that. So I have to praise the Center Party that actually did it. I would nevertheless warn the Center Party and the rhetoric that is used by asking questions about the quality and justification of hospitals that do not have all the emergency functions in surgery. I want to draw attention to the Kongsberg hospital, in my home country, which treats approx. 12,000 patients a year. It includes day surgery, inpatients and outpatients for nearly 3,000 patients. These patients are very pleased with their offer. The head of Kongsberg Hospital has received a prize because she has managed to work out a culture – and reverse a negative development. That's good. Don't talk that down. I want to remind the Center Party that when they had the power in the county – with the central party rapporteur – and ran the hospitals, every year there were questions about whether the maternity ward was to be laid down or what was to happen to Kongsberg hospitals. So you also have to look a little bit backwards. With the policies of the majority, the small hospitals will be strengthened today. There was no doubt about it. They're going to get more problems, and I'm glad that there's a majority for the big lines in this message. The size gives the government the task, and it is the government that will again give the task of making development plans based on majority observations and what the Storing decides today, to the entity. It is not the Storting that is going to make the development plans in enterprises – it is the enterprises themselves. So for waiting times, waiting lists, deadline breaks, etc. – and there has been talk of humility. Then I have to say that the representative Knutsen might be able to take a look in the mirror and show a little humility and give some credit for the fact that the government actually succeeds in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3182	We agree on a lot in this plan. We make a lot of common decisions. But there is no doubt that there is one area in which we disagree. Some describe emergency surgery as a simple, small service that the hospital and the healthcare company can handle, while others of us believe that emergency surgery has a major impact on what other services it will be in these hospitals. I respect that we put different things into it, but when the Christian People's Party left the negotiations, it was because we thought emergency surgery was just as important for a hospital as geriatric competence and pediatric competence. If it is controlled from Stortinget, emergency surgery can also be controlled from Stortinget – not at department level, but as a stake in Norwegian hospitals There we obviously disagree. I notice that more from this pulpit have said that prehospital services – ambulances, air ambulances – are important. But the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are alone in proposing demands for response time. If we mean what we say, it has to be more than words. It must be will – political will. In the change of lines earlier today, I noticed that the party representative of the Advancement Party, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, answered questions as to whether surgical evaluation and stabilisation could be reconciled by a surgeon without a 24-hour watch. Then the representative had been informed that it could do something by allowing others to take that assessment. That was her answer. You can't actually do that. Surgical evaluations are the responsibility of the surgeons. Either we have 24 hours for surgery, or we don't. Norwegian surgical association and the Medical Association say that one should have emergency surgery with surgical evaluation, there must be a surgeon present. The Christian People's Party will at the same time give notice that we are going to vote in favour of the proposals No. 34 and 37.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3193	I have to start by commenting on the last post of the representative of Bollestad, related to emergency surgery. We, the four parties, had been negotiating for quite a long time on formulations related to acute surgery. The Labour Party has today made it clear that it presented its plan on 11 February, and in both the plan and the comments put forward by the representative Torgeir Micaelsen from the Chair, it is clear that the Workers' Party will warn the Minister of Health and the Storting against adopting single functions in a single hospital. So we had no more room for negotiation. It's an honest thing, but when you've known it for so long, I think it's a little strange that you're holding on for so long in a negotiation. To the representative of Gruvan: All the power in this case – not in this room – was moved in 2002 with the company model and a corporate law that says the Minister of Health is the owner. We can discuss that principle, but that's what we're going to discuss when the Women's Country Committee has presented its investigation. on 1 December, and as the Stortinget is given full opportunity to discuss next year, in an election campaign that is going to deal a lot about it. This has been a taste for that debate, but it was not the debate today. We have hospitals like Lovisenberg, Mosjøen, Elverum – in my region – and Nordfjord, which have not had acute surgery today, without a theme in this room. To the model of the Center Party: I want to praise the Center Party, which has made an incredible effort to promote its overall plan, but it is a bit creepy about the governance model, because they also want indirect governance with representatives from the county councils as local board representatives around the hospitals. I listened carefully when the committee was visiting Scotland. Scotland has in a way reversed some of the model developed by the United Kingdom in terms of hospitals. I have sympathy for the development of both countries. Scotland tried out direct elections to hospital administrators. Perhaps the most important experience was that there was no one who would make choices. We're also going to take that with us. It says something about how demanding this is. That's 140 billion. NOK just now. So it's 3,000 billion. kr for the next 10 years. There are thousands of employees, and there are millions of patient meetings. Obviously, there are people who complain, it's clear there'll be noise in this sector. I look forward to a constructive debate in the future in Stortinget on how to steer this sector further.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3206	If the argument, both for keeping the governance model and for the Storting not to adopt a hospital plan and take responsibility for what should be of services in the local hospitals, is as the last speaker said – that it is so difficult, that there are many employees, that someone is going to complain – then I think it is a mere discharge. I have been a state politician and have been responsible for the hospitals. Yes, it was difficult, but the Stortinget and the politicians have to take that responsibility, and that is the whole point of what SV thinks. There are two elephants in this room. One is the business model, which has to go away. But the second is that there is a large majority here who want to free themselves from the difficult decisions, shift that responsibility to others, to the corporate model. And some county representative sitting on such a board has no responsibility to report back to anyone. They're not elected from any system, so it's going to be completely wrong. I'm also worried when it says that you're going to shift the education to surgery so that there's less emphasis on general surgery, because that's exactly what you need to do in the future. One of the problems with health management has been that for many years you are very good at talking about what you need to centralize. You haven't been as good at either talking about or decentralizing the things that can actually be decentralized, and that can be the basis of the patient's healthcare where the patient lives. I also see that it is mentioned, but did not take any proper action, in terms of health care warnings. There was a book published not long ago that called 'Hold your mouth or go!' by doctor Eli Berg. I was at a warning seminar at the House of Literature not long ago, and it is quite serious that cultures develop within the health care system where alerting becomes completely impossible. Of course, it has to do with the governance model, but it also has to do with a culture that can work completely independently of the governance model we have. But it's really a democratic problem, and it's also a problem for patients if it's that competent health care staff don't dare to say or if they do, it has consequences for them, for example. career. I would also like to say that the local hospitals across the country are absolutely necessary for us to be able to train the health professionals we are entitled to. And then, President, I draw myself to a three-minute term to complete my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3225	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3228	To the left, the enterprise model makes it impossible for Stortinget to decide that there should be emergency surgery in each hospital that has emergency functions. However, since the introduction of the pre-tax model in 2002, it has been regulated by law, as stated above. health care law § 30, that regional health care providers do not have decision-making powers in matters of major importance and have societal implications. The debate in the last year has shown that acute surgery is just such a matter. In other words, the corporate laws add up to the opposite of what the Left says here, i.e. that the corporate governance cannot make decisions of such a nature. Therefore, the Left cannot hide behind the corporate governance in this matter and it is clear that the Storting can and should adopt the significant changes in the hospital sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3235	This has been a very long debate. I've listened, and my goal was really just to listen, but I wanted to make some comments toward the end. I have been sitting and thinking about whether this is a good plan, and I have not managed to answer it. So I figured it's really a completely uninteresting question, because the question we're interested in is whether the hospitals are going to get better. And if they get better, are they going to get better because of this plan? I am absolutely convinced that our hospitals will continue to be better and better – absolutely convinced. When I'm convinced of it, it's because there's very good professionals out there. A few years ago, I was able to join the day surgery department at Bærum Hospital. We who got the assignment had no plan to do that. We sat around a table, and then we wrote three words on a sheet. We wrote: professionals, equipment and premises. Of these three, the most important is definitely the professionals. We politicians like to talk about structure, that means a little bit, professionals mean a lot more – therefore a common political humility for science and research, which governs this development, I think, more than us. Short on locational management: It is very good that it is adopted today. So it is very strange that it is not adopted until 2016. It follows from fundamental reason that this is right. There is no one who would come to say anything other than that having parents and tending locally is better than anything else. Everyone will prefer a local fire service to something that is a completely different place. So local management is very good. In my local team in the policy in Bærum, we were quite mad at West Viken, who did not have local management, back in 2011. Then we began to make decisions about it. And after two to three years, it came -- that's right, and it's been a success. The most pressing issue in this debate has been the question of emergency surgery. Here, politics has met the surgical logic. Do you have to amputate, or don't you have to amputate? One option is a little bit more important than the other. You may be in doubt, but you have to make the choice – it is not rhetorical to get out of it. Therefore, at least one conclusion to the question of emergency surgery must be that acute surgery or not: then there must be either a surgeon present — or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3254	The representative, Mr V. Bollestad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3257	My comment is a response to the representative, Kjeseth, who said that we had discussed and negotiated, that it did not work because of the company model, and that the Christian People's Party should know about what was in the Workers' Party's comments. The Christian People's Party believed, and still believes, that emergency surgery is as central and as well as child-ecological competence and geriatry. If we can negotiate the one from Stortinget's side, we can also decide the other. There is little point in having geriatric competence and pediatric competence if you are not helped on the day of the accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3262	It's always worth listening to Are Health when he takes the floor in health policy debates, he has both the competence and the experience. I believe that the representative Health is quite right when he says that things are going to get better with this plan. But what we're not getting away with with this plan is that in a lot of good professional environments, he's created insecurity, and it's a problem in itself. Just creating a good professional environment when there is insecurity is a problem for development in the future. It's about recruiting. We in the Christian People's Party have been very busy ensuring a national health and hospital plan because we believe it is right. We can put some leads, but we think it's leadership to draw a picture that can just guarantee the security that we think it's in good professional environments today. I record that a multiple is not willing to join the line on which the Christian People's Party is based, among other things. in the case of acute surgical supplies. As one says, there are not economic reasons, there are professional reasons. But I record that the Medical Association and Norwegian surgical association are clear that the quality of the acute surgery in small hospitals is good. Central health authorities have admitted that there is no evidence that major hospitals provide better quality. The professional environment and the main weight of the hearing aids warn against removing the emergency surgery in the smaller hospitals. The Medical Association points out that if a central competence is removed from emergency surgery, this could lead to time loss, suffering and unnecessary transport stages. In the worst case, it could cost you a life. The representative, Kjeseth, has said that it has our great concerns in the local environment around Flekkefjord, Odda, Stord and Volda. Fortunately, we have made this concern unwarranted, says the representative, Mr Kjeseth. The words I am pleased with, but it is not the debate today that will reveal whether the representative Kjenseth is right. It will be the autumn we meet, the next winter – yes for the next one to two years – we get answers as to whether the concerns are unfounded. And we know what the torch around has gone for: it's supposed to be a sane hospital, with just the emergency surgery that's needed for a holistic supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3273	At Kongsberg, it's just the emergency surgery that's in the center, as a result of the emergency surgery being removed. The Heads of Government of Kongsberg Nutrition Forum and the Norwegian Centres of Expertise say that on behalf of the business community they believe that Kongsberg hospital needs to be developed as soon as possible into a modern, fully-fledged local hospital with daily standby in emergency surgery and radiology. It is a unanimous local government at Kongsberg that says that one must get a full local hospital back by returning the daily emergency response in emergency surgery and radiology to the hospital from 1 January. It's not like the case-rapporteur Mr. Örmen Johnsen here says, that one should have back all the emergency functions in emergency surgery. It's not that, of course. It's a little local hospital we're talking about, which is an oak in the hub that's the big Drammen hospital. Buskerud Arbeiderpartie has followed up the same way, they have decided where one says that Kongsberg Hospital ‘must be upgraded and developed as a modern and fully-fledged hospital for the future, based on the professional platform of the Norwegian Medical Association in terms of content and functions, in new buildings and with a competence that meets tomorrow’s requirements for hospitals.’ In the Lageendalspost on 9 September we have a rare breach of confidence in relation to the Left-Choosers, where leader Trine Skei Grande says: ‘Left has clearly defined what a local hospital should be in its large-scale programme. The definition includes, inter alia, emergency preparedness in internal medicine and emergency surgery.» And finally, she says, ‘With Kongsberg Left in a strong position after the municipal elections, Kongsberg will secure a voice that has a short path to those who are at the centre of the decision on the fate of the local hospitals.’» What is this trust used for? It's used by Left Spokesman, here presented by a few influence, a navigating into this center, read the Right and Advance Party. One goes away from emergency surgery on a 24-hour basis, and it's natural that there's going to be strong reactions. However, the strong thing is that the Council of State will not respond to the wording of the Government Party in the vote, will not respond to whether it is possible to comply with those wordings without having surgeons on standby for the 24-hour period. It's very special. That's the essence of it all: is it possible to ensure the quality that the majority here represents, without one having surgeons in the 24-hour period? The Council of State will have to answer that soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3298	At first I have a question about a clarification from the representative, Kjeseth, because it is possible that I heard errors, but I thought he said that there were no emergency functions at Elverum Hospital. That's it. The government's State Secretary has also been out in the local press and assured that he will be kept, including in the current medical plan. If there's any change in it now, I have to say I'm quite surprised. It's not just this plan that has created uncertainty, so honestly I think we should be. It has been there for a long time, but it has been promised that this plan will remove the uncertainty. But that's what it doesn't do, neither in Flekkefjord nor anywhere else. There is uncertainty just because you don't want to take political responsibility back in and say what functions it should be, take political responsibility if you have to put these functions down. No one has said that it can never happen, but it's a political responsibility The Storting should take, and that should be the majority of adults enough to do. I also need to give some brief comments on something that also says here, which is not essentially, but which relates to the package sequence in psychiatry. It's very good intentions, but I think unfortunately it's completely wrong method, because there's a lot of professionals saying that this isn't going to work. It's hard to say how to rig a package like this, because there's a lot of people here who have a lot of different diagnostics at the same time. It's also that it's not particularly predictable how such conditions change, what kind of time you're looking at. Here it's very, very difficult to use standardized schemes. Some of the things that have made the strongest impression on me are some of the young people who have had a lot of stress in their lives, with care failures and pressures that may have been so great that they have had so-called behavioral difficulties, and are very easily diagnosed. They say they don't need a diagnosis or a package sequence. They need that there are adults who can both listen to them, accept what is coming, and help them move on. Then a package course within the psychiatry is not a race that will help them. This has both the Psychologists' association and many others warned against it, and there are also experiences from Denmark that show that the worst patients get the worst out of such a package. I am absolutely sure that the intention is good, but here I really ask both the Minister of Health and the majority to think about before they make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3312	There are two debates that have gone on again. One is about what is going to be the role of the Stortinge towards the individual hospital, and then it's the debate on surgery. To the first topic: In my opinion, it is quite clear that, within today's governance model, it is not Stortingen's task to define what individual hospitals should do with tasks, named. This has never happened in the years in which the State has been responsible for the hospitals, regardless of which batches have been in government and opposition. It is very good that the Storting has never gone to that step, because it had undermined completely the sharing of responsibilities in this system. It is always the local manager who is responsible for the proper functioning of the services. Had Stortinget placed the kind of leadership, that some services should be in one hospital, named, a person would have undermined this responsibility. It would have a very negative impact on the work on patient safety and quality, and I am very pleased that the majority in the European Parliament does not do so today either. The second is about the discussion about the surgical offer. I fully agree that the representative Are Health is a representative who should often listen to this kind of question, but unfortunately not today, because a surgeon is no longer a surgeon. That is precisely what is an important part of the premise in this plan – the general surgeons will not be trained in the future. That means that today, of course, the Stortinget could, as several here have called for, decide that all emergency hospitals should have a general emergency surgical response in the future as well. It's a perfectly fair position to take, but then one also had to be willing to defend the consequences of that position. This is made very clear in the Medical Association's input to the National Health and Hospital Plan, where one says that someone wants such a requirement, but at the same time says that there are too many emergency hospitals in Norway. This means that if the Stortinget had decided that all emergency hospitals in Norway should have general surgical competence, there were a number of hospitals today that could not have been acute hospitals – Lærdal, Elverum, Nordfjord, Kongsberg, etc. – because they do not have general emergency surgery capacity today, but they have an important emergency offer for their population. And a number of other hospitals wouldn't be able to maintain that requirement in the future. It is a fair requirement, but it is also a requirement that would involve significant centralisation. Does the Left's negotiations with the government parties have any meaning in this matter? Yes, definitely! Clearer guidance has been given through the setting that a person should strive to have different types of surgical preparedness and provision in the smaller hospitals in the future. It has been strengthened by what the Left has achieved in the negotiations that you have had with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3327	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3330	I will try to contribute to the Easter break, but there have been some questions and claims here that I must be allowed to answer. To Karin Andersen first, if I said emergency medicine, which I don't think I said, I meant emergency surgery, in Elverum. That's a significant difference. To the representative Lundtigen: I said the Right and Workers' Party, not the Right and the Advance Party, when I said 'in the centre'. So to the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad, it's not like we've been negotiating surgery with some hospitals. It'll be there. Then I am very happy that we have negotiated Geriatri, which is actually not available in a good deal of hospitals in Norway. There are big differences. We have some twenty medical departments for children and young people — many of them, most of them, do not have psychiatric competence. I am pleased that we have been included — among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3339	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3342	According to Section 30 of the Health Business Act, «Cases of Substantial Importance» are, for example, «1. Decisions which may change the nature of the establishment». Acute surgery is obvious within it, it's obvious the Storting's responsibility to clarify it. The centre party is fully associated with the Medical Association on the definition of the minimum content of a local hospital. It is probably annoying to the councils that the Center Party and the Lege Association are running together, but we are running together on Kongsberg, Volda – all around. What's special about the government's not going to go into surgery emergency response is that they don't get to work with immediate help every day, these surgeons, but they're going to take responsibility for difficult, rare cases that can't wait to be passed on. It is not professionally sound in the opinion of the Centre Party. That's why it's very special that the Council of States can defend such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3361	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3368	Before the matters on today's map are addressed to voting, the President will return to voting in case no. 7 at the Stortingens meeting on Tuesday 15 March. It concerns the suspension by the Transport and Communications Committee of consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee. 318/2015 of 11 December 2015 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation No. 80/2009 on rules for the use of EDB-based reservation systems Innst. [[EF]] 201 S [[2015-2016]] In the event of an incursion in the suspension, the decision was taken on file No. 7 read-only: ‘Government requests the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee’ – and further in accordance with the suspension. Of course, the correct one shall be: ‘The size consents to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee’ – and further in accordance with the suspension. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The setting has been enriched accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3392	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tina Bru, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, proposals No. 2-7, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 8-11, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 12-14, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 15, from Une Aina Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 15. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an appropriate target for reducing material consumption in Norway to a sustainable and fair level by 2030’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3425	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to require all companies to report on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3440	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider rules that contribute to the commercial distribution of advertising to households by mail or other retransmission requires active consent.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present an appropriate target for reducing environmentally harmful consumption in Norway to a sustainable and fair level by 2030.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3464	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to map and present a plan to promote the sharing of goods by simplifying legislation that currently prevents new forms of sharing and by assessing new platforms for public sharing.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on how to reduce the burden of Norwegian consumption on the planet’s resources.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate ban on the sale of goods which are intentionally designed or equipped with software which reduces their lifetime’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to increase the service life and quality of goods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3496	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–7, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the facilitations in the framework conditions for the placing on the market of second-hand goods, including reliefs or exemptions from VAT where applicable today’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to design requirements that goods of a kind where this is natural must be designed in such a way that repair is possible.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the facilitations in the framework conditions for repair activities’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to pay an excise duty on commercial advertising.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider stricter restrictions on advertising in the public space.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up rules that contribute to the active consent of the recipient by telephone to commercial advertising.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3538	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to discuss a target for the reduction of food waste and food waste at the retail and consumer levels and to present this in the announced notification of waste and circular economy. The objective must be seen in the context of the work of the sectoral agreement on reduction targets, regulatory development in the EU and the whole of Norwegian waste policy.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3567	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3587	This is identical with a proposal that was contested in Stortinget on 8 December 2015. In this regard, the President refers to the first sentence of the fifth paragraph of Paragraph 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting: ‘Once a proposal has been finalised, the proposal must not be re-submitted or re-examined in the same roll-out session.’ The President will therefore not take up the third part of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3615	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an overall review of important cultural memories and to promote a case for the Storting on a comprehensive plan for the preservation of the country’s main cultural memories.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3644	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, 4 and 5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 6, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the economic and social consequences of functional separation and to come back to the Storting with a case on this matter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3673	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the condition be that only networked reasons under which transmission networks should be defined under 200 kV’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests that, where a new 420 kV network is granted to replace 132 kV, no decision can be taken to transfer such 132 kV to the transmission system.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3694	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Sections 4 to 7 are replaced by the following: § 4 to 7 Functional separation requirements apply to integrated undertakings where the network undertaking has over 100000 network customers and where electrical energy is produced or traded within the integrated undertaking. [[Requirements for functional separation]] Persons in the management of network undertakings may not participate in the management of undertakings engaged in the production or placing on the market of electrical energy. Parent or controlling owner shall not give instructions to network undertakings on the day-to-day operation or on the decision concerning the development or upgrading of the network. This does not preclude overall governance under the financial framework of the network undertaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3732	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to develop a tariff model for SFHB companies where they are treated in a non-discriminatory and objective manner irrespective of the location of those companies in the network and that they are presented to the Stortinget in the next Industry Communication.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3919	It is voted first over I, new § 1-5 and § 4-6. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3933	It is contested by I, § 4-7. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3948	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3958	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3968	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e3976	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment and the Oil Directorate to review the existing emission permits of the oil industry, as well as other legal conditions, in order to update the requirements in order to implement technologically feasible energy efficiency improvements and to contribute to the achievement of Norway’s 2020 climate target.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that the potential for emission reduction through energy efficiency measures in the petroleum sector is realised as quickly as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4006	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to make it more profitable with energy efficiency measures for Norwegian petroleum industry through a combination of more favourable depreciation rules and increased CO2 tax.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4752	A total of 37 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 4, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, 5-11, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 12–17, by Olaug V. Bollestad, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 18, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 19–33, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 34 and 35, by Siv Elin Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 36 and 37, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that proposals to close, or substantially change, the supply of food in a hospital are addressed by the Stortinget.’ The central party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4795	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that major changes, such as the proposal to remove emergency surgery from a hospital, are dealt with by the Stortinget.’ The Christian People's Party and the Central Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4811	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all regional hospitals and university hospitals have geriatric wards.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4819	President! SV shall also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4824	Well, this proposal from the Central Party is also supported by the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4835	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the Storting a review of the status and investment needs of hospital buildings and medical technical equipment, with proposals for priorities and future allocation needs.’ The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4852	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23, 25-32 and 36, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to ensure that the local hospital is financed in the framework.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Stord Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened through better task allocation and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Gravdal Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened through better task sharing and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Volda Hospitals are further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and are strengthened through better task-sharing and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Flekkefjord Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness for acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened through better task allocation and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Narvik Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness for acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened through better task allocation and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Odda Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with a minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened by better division of tasks and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Kongsberg hospital is reintroduced with soft tissue surgery and radiology, and further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness in acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and strengthened by better division of tasks and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Orkdal Hospital is further developed as a fully-fledged local hospital with minimum daily preparedness for acute internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services and is strengthened by better division of tasks and cooperation in the health region.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all hospitals with emergency facilities have access to adequate radiological assessment on a daily basis.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 24, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require all hospitals to introduce a regulation ensuring transparency and to regularly monitor employees’ experience of freedom of expression and reporting culture at the workplace.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the further development of Norwegian hospitals on the minimum basic competence for day-to-day preparation in the field of internal medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4941	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a limit of 85 per cent on the safety of Norwegian hospitals.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4958	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct regional health companies to establish local management in all hospitals and major hospital departments, and that the local manager is to be responsible for the entire business with both professional responsibility, financial responsibility and personnel responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the competence and quality of emergency reception by developing the speciality of general internal medicine with more reception skills and its own areas of competence for other specialities, instead of introducing a new medical speciality in emergency and reception medicine.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4982	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a partial framework financing of local hospitals and for enhanced cooperation between large and small hospitals, including the allocation of tasks from the major hospitals, housing and rotation schemes.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e4999	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that local hospitals, so-called emergency hospitals, which currently have emergency surgery, retain this emergency function in order to ensure good and sound preparedness throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that significant changes in hospital structure and functions are determined by the National Health and Hospital Plan Size every four years, according to the model of the National Transport Plan.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to confirm regulatory response time requirements based on the Committee’s proposal for national response times for ambulances of 8, 12 and 25 minutes.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5029	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the educational capacity of medical students in Norway, so that education is more proportionate to national needs.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5046	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of current funding in hospitals and to investigate alternative funding models that ensure that the economy does not become a driver of the healthcare provided to patients.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measurement indicators such as annual development, cost and activity indicators to ensure compliance with the Golden Rule, which refers to higher growth in drug and mental health than somatic health, in regional health enterprises.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5070	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests through the business meeting and/or management documents that regional health businesses ignore the descriptive scenarios for developing the supply of acutely ill patients in hospitals, when designing new development plans for health enterprises and regional health businesses.’; Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget on its own initiative on the base structure of the air ambulance in Norway, at the latest in the context of the 2017 state budget.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5094	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that regional health establishments have the primary responsibility for the development of new treatment methods, for the division of tasks between hospitals, as well as responsibility for cross-regional activities, where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Governing Body through the Business Meeting and/or governance documents to ensure that regional health establishments are investigating different surgical emergency response models in emergency hospitals, including alternative watch arrangements, rotational systems and, where appropriate, collaboration between hospitals, where possible, in order to ensure emergency preparedness at each hospital through the best possible use of the total surgical resources.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5116	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of alternative models for the organisation of health south-east, with a view to sharing the regional health business.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a specific agreement between the employees and employers’ side of health care companies in order to launch waiting and outpatient projects on an evening and weekend basis and to propose funding in the state budget for 2017 following negotiations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the Health DG’s portfolio with a view to decentralising more tasks to regional health companies, where appropriate.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5145	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with measures to strengthen the training and recruitment of health professionals in Norwegian hospitals.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5162	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to disregard the principle that the population limit is to determine emergency functions in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting that measures be taken to ensure that medical students have increased access to community health practice.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5186	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the government to make use of modular specialisation that formalises medical watch competence.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5211	The Centre Party has notified subsidiary aid to I. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5234	The Labour Party has notified that it subsidizes II. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5261	The Labour Party has announced that it will subsidize III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5279	The centre party has notified subsidiary aid to V. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5314	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to finance the care of the child so that quality is premiered and that adequate staffing as an emergency offer is ensured.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5339	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to oblige health businesses to comply with the professional recommendation that all birthers be guaranteed a midwife present at the active stage of birth.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require health businesses during 2016 to ensure that the quality requirements for food institutions are implemented from 2010 both in terms of organisation and performance.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5396	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to replace the Health Business Act with a Health Management Act in which owner-representatives in the boards are elected by and from the members of the county.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5412	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a quality network model in hospitals where full-scale local hospitals with emergency preparedness in surgery, internal medicine, anaesthesia, X-rays and laboratories interact with more specialised hospitals.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5447	Case No. 10 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 44. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-17.ana.ud297e5537	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – That does not seem so, and the President will take advantage of the opportunity to wish good Easter.
