ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e83	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Paul Thyness is dead, almost 86 years old. Paul Thyness was born on April 10, 1930 in Aker municipality. After graduating artium in 1948 and studying at the University of Oslo, he became both cand.philol in 1955. and magistrates in state science. The Master's thesis «Edmund Burke's political philosophy» was later published as a book. Thyness was a member of the board of the Student Society in 1951 and chairman of the Conservative Student Association in 1954, before he became a member of Højre State Government in 1956. Among his duties was to be the secretary of the program committee under the direction of John Lyng. In the period 1961-1965, Thyness was the group secretary of the Höres Storingsgruppe and one of Lyng's closest employees. It was therefore no surprise that in the autumn of 1963, John Lyng took Paul Thyness with him as Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office. There was Thyness, among others. the primary responsibility for drawing up the Government Declaration. In 1965, Paul Thyness was elected to the Stortinget from Oslo. He was re-elected in 1969, 1973 and 1977, and has always held defence, security and foreign policy as the primary area of responsibility. In the years 1965-1973 he was a member of the Defence Committee – most of the time as Vice President. From 1973 to 1980 he was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and, in practice, a senior speaker in foreign affairs. He was vice-president of Odelstinget from 1974 to 1980. From 1969, Paul Thyness was a member of the North Atlantic Assembly, the NATO Parliamentary Forum, where he held senior positions as chairman of the Military Committee and as president of the Assembly. Although Paul Thyness’s name is most often linked to defence and foreign policy, his field of interest continued to expand considerably. He was concerned with ideological and cultural issues and was among others. member and chairman of several programme committees. He was head of the Right Church/State Committee and had several tasks in public investigation. In 1980, Thyness Stortinget and Norwegian Policy left to take over the position of Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations Development Fund, UNDP. He continued in this position until 1988 and got a reputation as an insightful and effective administrator. After the United Nations, he joined the aid organisation CARE both in Norway and internationally. As a pensioner, he also held important positions as Chairman of the Norwegian Bank's Representation and Vice-President of the National Theatre Business Assembly. In 2004, he received C.J. Hambro's prize for his political and historical authorship. We remember Paul Thyness for his work in the Storting, and shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e100	The called alternate of Sogn and Fjordane counties, Sigurd Reksnes, now takes the seat. A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives Svein Roald Hansen, Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal and Marianne Aasen on leave on 18 and 19 May – all to attend the meeting of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Vaduz, Liechtenstein from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Gunvor Eldegard on 18 and 19 May to attend the board meeting of the Nordic Cultural Fund in Reykjavik These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the Rogaland County, Marie Liones Breek, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative of Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For Rogaland County: Per Kåre Foss For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e155	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative not to allow a practice of foetal reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e160	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e176	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Wiik, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e185	The government has in Prop. 42 L for 2015–2016 proposed changes to the penal code that strengthen criminal protection against criminal prosecution – stalking – and other offences. It is proposed to amend Section 266 of the Penal Code on reckless conduct, which makes it clear that the rule affects the prosecution of persons. Furthermore, a new Section 266(a) on serious persecution of persons is proposed, which, according to the proposal, should be punishable by imprisonment for up to four years. Section 253 of the Criminal Code on Forced Marriage proposes a new second paragraph which affects the person who seduces or otherwise helps a person travel to a country other than where the person resides, with the intention that the person who will be subject to forced marriage. I would like to thank the Committee on constructive cooperation, and it is a pleasure that the Committee is united on such important issues. An overall committee will point out that legislative proposals on changes to the penal code of 1902 and the criminal law of 2005, as regards the prosecution, rape and other sexual abuses, the dissemination of prostitution, the preparation for detention, etc., were already sent to the general hearing on 8 February 2013, with a deadline for consultation on 1 June 2013. The Committee would also point out that on 8 June 2015 the Stortinget adopted Decision No. 611 for 2014-2015 to the Government by examining representative proposals to strengthen the protection of persons exposed to violence, threats of violence, persecution of persons and stalking. The Committee takes note of the fact that the decision is followed up in this proposition and that it proposes a new penalty order for serious persecution of persons. The Committee considers this to be very important. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Centre will show that stalking and persecution of persons is a growing social problem, and believe that it is high time that the matter is now brought before the Stortinget. The work on protecting against stalking was initiated by the previous government, and the Right and Advance Party were then sceptical about how to handle this, whether a law ban was the right measure against stalking. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee now supports the legislative proposal. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and of the Centre stress the importance of follow-up by the government on the use of the reverse violence alarm and expect this work to be started. An overall committee points out that from 1 February 2013, it has been possible to judge violent offenders for the prohibition of contact by electronic marking, a so-called reverse alarm of violence. Conversely, a violent alarm is condemned as a loss of rights under Section 33 of the Criminal Code. The police are responsible for the system and administer it in cooperation with the police. An electronic footlink on doomsday grounds alerts the police that they are moving into the prohibited area. The police will then be able to alert the victim of violence, follow the movements of convictions, and take action before he reaches the victim of violence. The Committee believes that reverse-violence alarm is an instrument in the fight against violence in close relations and provides the police with a new tool to protect victims of violence. It is important to stress that the reverse alarm of violence comes in addition to what is, and not as a substitute for existing measures to protect victims of violence. The members of the Committee point out that the reverse-violence alarm system must be made well known in all police districts and that the system must be used more than today, while reviewing the system of a visitation ban. The overall recommendation of the Committee is support for the Government's Prop. 42 L for 2015–2016 on the proposal for a law on changes to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedures Act – persecution of persons, preparation for forced marriage, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e202	Persecution is becoming a criminal offence today and can be punished for up to four years. I'm afraid that's necessary. It's a little too many people who are exposed to threats of violence and persecution of individuals. This new penal code must be seen in conjunction with other criminal laws in the same area in the fight against violence in close relations, namely the prohibition of contact and the prohibition of visits. In several contexts, at the latest in the Objective and Priority Directives, the National Advocate has clarified that the ban should be followed when this is breached. As the previous speaker pointed out, from 01.01.2013 it was possible to judge the use of so-called reverse violence alarm. The problem is that today there are relatively few judges for the use of the reverse alarm system. This is in addition to the restraining order. The Advocate General has also pointed out in his target and priority Directive that the use of the reverse alarm of violence needs to be increased. That's what the Storting has done. In its examination of Document 8:74 for 2014-2015, the majority of the Committee stated: ‘Where a restraining order or other instruments are not respected, in the opinion of the majority, the reverse alarm of violence shall be used to a greater extent than at present.’;» Why do I pick this up and repeat this? Well, given the fact that there are still few judges on the use of the reverse violence alarm and the fact that new technology has come in the field that makes the reverse violence alarm much more operationally safe and can make the use of the reverse violence alarm more focused on the purpose for which it is actually intended. This is why a recommendation from the Committee and the European Parliament is also being made today during this debate on the use of reverse violence alarm to a greater extent than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e216	If you're going to ask a question today, maybe the question is why we haven't done this before. With regard to persecution and violence in close relationships, it is a topic that has been discussed repeatedly. So today we're going a step further and we're imposing a law ban. I think it must be allowed to say that it is strictly a paradox. At the same time, I want to give the government credit for that actually happening. I believe that one of the major difficulties in the matter of persecution of individuals is that of those who experience being exposed to it. You have difficulty understanding what makes another person so intensely attracted to you. I don't automatically believe that a law sentence or a criminal reaction against a person who does, will prevent it, but at least it will give the victim an attention and a sense of being taken care of, because the law is just to ensure that such things don't happen. If a person to those degrees is guided by the focus on another person, I'm afraid that the law as such will not prevent it, but it could give a response. It's also something that's important to have a law, that the victim can feel that you're being understood, that you're being cared for, and that the law takes me into account in such a sentence. Therefore, of course, I fully support this, because the law must protect and ensure that those who are exposed to unnecessary attention can live their lives more normally. The previous speaker and the case rapporteur were concerned with violence in close relations and the reverse of the alarm of violence. I agree with what has been said so far, and hope that the government will increase the focus on it, because being a victim is not what you choose, it is a situation that you often end up in. By letting the person who has been the victim continue as a victim because you don't have enough tools to prevent it, it's completely unreasonable. That means that the perpetrator appears to be a kind of winner because the system doesn't have the ability to focus on that person, but so let the victim walk around using the violence alarm. Therefore, the use of reverse violence alarm is a good measure that should be fully supported and continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e227	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation on an important matter. I share the views expressed by previous speakers, perhaps with a slight exception. It is related to the timing description of the setting. I would just like to remind you that the previous government put in government premises for seven and a half years before a draft was made that was sent to the hearing. Then it is always the way that you would wish that things that have been challenging over many years – because this has been with stalking – should have been solved earlier. This government solves it, and I am happy that we have a connection in Stortinget – and the width it has – to the solution that the government has fallen on. Stalking is a much bigger problem for those who are exposed to it, than one can sometimes get the impression. It's really about being exposed to an unwanted attention that makes you have to change the way a person lives his life. Some have to change their names, some have to stay away from areas where they want to move. It becomes in many ways a detention of the persons who are being stalked. That is why it is very good that we now go from a legal state where stalking has had to be punished after many different criminal orders, to clarify the applicable criminal order and make a whole new one for the most serious cases. In addition, with this new provision, the Storting gives a very clear signal of how serious this crime is, with a penalty framework of up to four years. It's a big day for those who have been stalking, but it's perhaps an even bigger day for those who in the future will not be exposed to the same thing, because we're now getting this decision. As mentioned in the setting and also in the posts today, the use of the reverse violence alarm is. Unfortunately, we are still in a situation where it is rarely condemned. I am concerned that the reverse alarm of violence should be the instrument that we intended it to be: it should restrict the freedom of the perpetrator, not the freedom of the perpetrator of violence. That is why I am very pleased that the attorney-in-Office has taken this seriously in terms of targets and priorities written for 2016 and stated that this should be addressed by the prosecution authority to a greater extent than it has been done. However, I think it is necessary – after we have gained some more experience of how development is – to assess whether we should also be able to use the reverse alarm of violence in the case of a restraining order under the Criminal Procedures Act or a criminal visitation ban. I think it's important that we get some more experience before maybe we take it up, but I'm open to evaluating it, because it's an effective tool. As the representative of Riveres also pointed out, today's technological possibilities make it less burdensome for all parties to use the reverse alarm of violence to a greater extent. In the first place, we have to get the current permission to be used. I am absolutely sure that the prosecution authority has noticed the Riksadvokat's commitment – and not least the commitment of the Stortinget – to the greater use of the reverse violence alarm. Now, on several occasions, the Storting has clarified this, the Council of State has clarified it, the Government has clarified it, and the National Attorney has clarified it. This should have the necessary consistency. I also want to talk a little bit about the other important part of this proposition, which is to punish participation in forced marriage. It is also an activity that is extremely stressful to those who are exposed to it. Very often, marriages occur in connection with travels that have a cover of being something completely different. The fact that we now have a real opportunity both to prosecute those involved in forced marriage, and to intervene at an earlier stage when there is a basis for suspecting that the purpose of the trip is forcible will be an important new tool for the police. I am convinced that this is a useful tool in our common fight against coercion. I am very pleased that the Storting on these points seems to join the government's proposal unanimously, and I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e253	The Council of State elaborates in a good way the concept of ‘stalking’ and indicates how seriously he views the situation of the stalker. It's very joyful. However, I would point out that experience has shown that measures involving particularly small groups rarely receive sufficient attention, such as: rape, offers to children at risk of violence, etc. So my question to the Council of State is this: how will the Council of State ensure that this criminal code is well followed up in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e260	It is done in an ordinary way. There are reports coming over these kinds of cases, and the police should be equipped to handle follow-up and investigation of these kinds of cases. What we're doing now is giving the police a much more effective tool in the investigation and the correction because there's a clear legal base, that is. two clear legal instruments that can be used for this type of criminal activity. What I think will also be an instrument, as well as the fact that we have the ordinary governance dialogue, is that the Storting now agrees that criminal justice is strong. It's crime to be punished by up to four years in prison. Although relatively few people are exposed to it, I am absolutely convinced that the police are taking these cases seriously. In some of the most extreme cases, it can actually lead to another type of more serious crime if a non-legislator early.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e267	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e283	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after the intervention of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e290	The proposal concerns changes to the criminal law aimed at preventing private individuals from engaging in acts of conflict in an armed conflict. The growth of radicalised individuals, environments and foreign warriors gives cause for concern. This development is clearly described in recent threat assessments by the PST and the Intelligence Service. Several acts of terrorism in Europe and in the rest of the world confirm the seriousness of and the great potential for violence resulting from these developments. The government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism has gained wide and international recognition. This action plan shall prevent the emergence of radicalised individuals and environments with a desire or intention to commit violent acts. The present proposition is the follow-up to this action plan, exactly action No 20. The proposition is essentially three-fold. Firstly, it is proposed to criminalise attacks committed by Norwegian citizens or residents in Norway, against Norwegian military forces. Attacks on forces from other countries participating in an international operation together with Norwegian forces will also be targeted. The establishment of federations linked to such attacks shall also be affected as a criminal form of preparation. Secondly, it is proposed to criminalise military participation in armed conflict abroad, unless the contestant can be considered to have privileges under humanitarian law or the participation is on behalf of a government force. Different types of preparation for such participation, including exit to conflict areas, could be punishable as a result of the extension of test responsibilities. The prohibition is intended to address Norwegian citizens and residents in Norway. Thirdly, it is proposed to criminalise recruitment to illegal military involvement in armed conflict. The proposition underlines the importance of not going beyond the limits imposed by the principle of legality. This is an important guarantee of legal certainty, which is provided for both in the Constitution and international law. The Committee endorses this and considers that the legislative proposals in the proposal clarify and clarify the legislator's intention to penalise private individuals' participation in armed conflict. I would like to make a few specific comments on some of the proposals. The legal provision to criminalise attacks by Norwegian citizens or residents in Norway against Norwegian military forces is an important borderline. It is a clear expression of the loyalty of Norwegian citizens to their own country and to their own soldiers — even if the soldiers are serving abroad. The duty of loyalty is a natural consequence of the extensive democratic rights of Norwegian citizens and the participation of Norwegian forces in foreign operations is a result of democratic decision-making processes enshrined in the Constitution and international law. The Committee emphasises that strict response by the authorities is required in such situations and that consideration should be given, if necessary, to the equivalence of such attacks with gross domestic product. The law to criminalise military participation in armed conflict abroad involves important and difficult demarcation issues. The Committee stresses that the prosecution of acts committed abroad can only be carried out when the public interest is in favour of it. This implies that participation in armed conflict abroad must be prosecuted in criminal law, which must be assessed separately by the prosecution authority. The Committee agrees with the proposal’s instructions on the evaluation criteria to be taken into account by the public prosecutor. The rug for this proposition is very serious. The Committee's emphasis on the prevention of legislative proposals is important. It's an overall committee that's behind the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e318	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation in this matter. As the rapporteur said, the emergence of radicalised individuals, environments and xenophobics is causing concern in our society. In recent years, the PST and the Intelligence Service have described developments that are very serious both at home and – not least – out in Europe. When one sees the potential for violence that lies in this emergence, it is important that the government closely monitor the situation and promote the necessary measures to combat this development in our society. Prior to this proposition, the government presented an action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, an action plan based on the work of the Stoltenberg II government, which presented the first action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. This action plan aims to prevent the emergence of radicalised individuals and environments with a desire or intention to commit violent acts in their own countries and abroad. The main work must and must be done outside the municipalities, and it is therefore essential that the municipalities and the police are allocated the necessary resources so that good prevention can be implemented. I have noticed that the government, through the municipal bill, which was presented yesterday, does not give the municipalities much more money in this area. Municipalities are the main preventative element of all crime, and it is therefore disappointing that they are not better placed to prioritise this work even more in the future. One of the measures to which the Storting joined when a addressed action plan was Action No. 20, which was to submit to consultation proposals to penalise the participation of individuals in armed conflict. It is an overall committee that supports the government's proposals for changes to the penal code that deal with military activities, inter alia. Armed conflict. Like the government, the Committee is committed to introducing changes to the penal code that will have a preventive effect, so that individuals refrain from participating in future acts of conflict in armed conflict. For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: extending the ban on recruitment to military activities for the forces of a foreign country to include recruitment to a non-governmental force or group is to prevent individuals from leaving as foreign fighters and coming back as violent radicalised and as a possible threat to security at home. The ban will clearly indicate that society does not accept that Norwegians are going abroad to engage in serious acts of violence in an armed conflict. At the same time, it is stressed that a ban on participation in armed conflict must be designed in accordance with the most objective criteria possible. For the purposes of the criminal procedural adaptations, it is important to stress that the use of space listening under the criminal law can be used only if there is a suspicion of a breach of specific criminal law. When there is an overall committee behind the vote, it is based on the fact that everyone is committed to contributing to the prevention of radicalisation and threats to Norway, in order to prevent killings, torture and injuries to individuals and contribute to international stability. It is also important that the Council of State follows up this work, so that there are terrorists who are actually the target, and not any freedom fighters who are fighting for human rights and democracy around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e339	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good review of the matter. And then I also allow myself to express a nuance in relation to the previous speaker's observation of what's most important. I understand that the representative Jorod Asphjell of the Workers' Party points out that the municipalities are the most important thing. I think with respect to report that it is the individual that is the most important thing. It's the attitude of the individual who decides what you're doing and what you're not doing. And of course you can say that the individual is governed by the municipality. I had hoped it was the other way around – from my point of view at least. But enough about it. There is no doubt that this law is also needed. Just as in the previous case we had, this is a necessity, simply because you want to give a clear signal from the legislator and from society about what is acceptable, and what is not acceptable. I think maybe the best/worst example is what happened in London. When people living in London found out that it was their second and third generation that attacked them, I think it did something to them. I don't know if the law as such will prevent this, but if the law can prevent one recruitment or one attack here, the law has been a success at my discretion. It is also the ambition today, as I understand it, to give a clear signal to everyone who is considering going out and contributing to conflicts that are not relevant, to use that concept, that the law will do their job. And our job, as representatives of the legislative assembly, is to make sure that you have a law that preserves and protects society at all stages. In this way, this is a step in the right direction, while also taking into account that those who have a legitimate purpose can continue to support their struggle to combat injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e348	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation of the whole of the matter. What was said, I can largely join. New rules against xenophobics will significantly simplify the prosecution. After today's legislation, many of the acts that are committed are criminal, but it is in practice impossible to take out charges because it is difficult to prove that the acts have actually taken place. Making appeals easier will also be important for prevention, which is why what is being adopted today is important. On the other hand, there are some weaknesses in the proposal, as we see it, namely that it also criminalises participation in so-called substantive conflicts. So it's going to be as criminal to fight against IS as it is to fight for IS. Then you have a kind of security valve by allowing the state attorney to decide whether or not to prosecute. It is also as the Labour Party's representative said that the aim is not to penalise the acts of respectableness. If you are a freedom fighter, you should still be able to do so without risking punishment in retrospect. But you can't know that in advance, because it'll be up to the state attorney whether or not to sue. It is also in this context that the Advocate General has raised some fundamental concerns about the proposal in his reply to the hearing. The Parliamentary Advocate outlines a solution in which it is illegal to participate in conflicts that have been categorised as banned by the King of State Council, i.e. that it is the political leadership of the country who has to decide which conflicts are relevant and which conflicts are not. The big difference between the proposal that is now before the Committee and what the Advocate-General wants is whether it is the political leadership in the country who is to determine what are substantive conflicts, or whether it is the attorney-in-Office who is to decide it. The advantage of what's on the table now is that it's easy to deal with. The starting point is that it is punishable – and done with it. The Riksantikvaren model – no, I think we should keep the Riksantikvaren quite far away from this [[muttering in the hall]] Now that's what I think -- even if it's not relevant for me -- that if you're willing to die in a war, that's what matters most, not if you risk prosecution when you get back home. But there is something about the laws we adopt being simple to understand, and they have to be tidy for those who may be at risk after committing certain actions. In our group we have discussed this matter quite thoroughly, because we think it has been a difficult matter. It's important to make it simple, it's important to make it possible to take action. At the same time, we believe that there must be great predictability. The legal certainty of those we are talking about must be ensured in the best possible way. And we have concluded that we want to vote in favour of the proposal that SV has made, precisely because we are then moving the authority to decide what are legitimate conflicts, from the state attorney to the government. I think we all have the same intentions, but we think it's going to be most neat that the government is going to decide which conflicts are going to be criminal to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e365	SV shares the intention of the proposal to criminalise foreign fighters, and we see, like both the government and the committee, the need for new legislation in this area. At the same time, like the Workers' Party, I would like to make it clear that we are committed to creating a law that targets terrorists, not freedom fighters. As the representative from the Left recently pointed out, we already have a comprehensive law through the penal code, which covers most acts of combat in armed conflict abroad. At the same time, participation and recruitment to terrorism are also illegal, but, as the representative Nybø pointed out, it has proved difficult for prosecution authorities to provide evidence in such cases, and it may be difficult to prosecute and condemn those cases. We therefore see a lack in today's legislation, cases where it is desirable to prosecute people who have been foreign fighters but who have not participated in a terrorist group. It will correct the bill that is available here, and it will be easier to prosecute xenophobic fighters – regardless of who they have fought for. Any recriminalisation has established a principle in the Storting to proceed with caution. Our concerns about the proposal we are dealing with today are that it is very broad and gives too little direction to the prosecution authorities, and that there is much discretion on the part of the prosecution authorities. We want political assessments to be made, that this is where discretion is to be expressed and laid, not with the prosecution authorities, and that is what we believe is crucial in these kinds of cases, also in order to get as clear a law as possible. That is why we have proposed an alternative text. We are proposing today the draft wording of the National Advocate General, with which the Committee is familiar from previous proceedings, i.e. we propose to amend § 145 Participation in military activities in armed conflict, which reads: «The person who is legally involved in military activities in an armed conflict abroad is punished by imprisonment up to 6 years, unless he participates on behalf of a state force.» We want § 145 to sound – and now I refer to the SV's proposal, which I am addressing here today: ‘Norwegian citizen or other resident of the State, who is a member of a group abroad who is actively involved in armed conflict, is sentenced to six years in prison. The prohibition addresses the conflicts identified by the King of State Council to be covered by the first paragraph. Any person who intends to enforce an offence as referred to in the first subparagraph and starts his or her journey to the area or performs other acts facilitating and pointing against its implementation shall be punished for trial. The trial shall be punishable less than the execution of the infringement. The second paragraph of Section 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis.» Then I would like to thank both the President-in-Office for a good proposal and the Committee for a good job, and I hope that more people will join in today's proposal. We believe that it is very well lit by the Advocate General, and we also believe that the Committee refers to the same dilemma that SV is drawing up, and that we want to clarify by promoting the proposal we have put on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e381	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e384	Let me also first of all thank you for your good cooperation with the Committee and for a good contribution and a good review by the rapporteur. I agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. It has become a formidable problem for people to go out as foreign fighters in conflicts to participate in military activity that creates significant security challenges, not only where military activity takes place but also when returning to their home country. In Norway, we expect that approx. 90 people have travelled to participate in foreign war activity in the Iraq/Syria conflict. It shows that it has a very large scale. Then, of course, the challenge is that one by the kind of combat participation that is currently involved, for example. in the conflict in Syria, will acquire knowledge, insight and ability to carry out acts of violence at home as well. Not least, one can contribute to radicalising and recruiting others for foreign wars. We have seen examples of terrorist attacks in Europe in recent times where people with that kind of combat experience are behind or involved in terrorist acts on European territory. In Norway, the PST and the police have given a very high priority to the fight against this crime, and we now have several judges in these cases. Several issues are under investigation, and it is important that we constantly have a law that is up-to-date and facilitates the police to strengthen this effort further. This bill is actually a direct response to this. Because as many of the speakers have spoken, the actions of foreign fighters, that is, killing, terror and violence, are already criminal. However, proving or proving evidence in a Norwegian court for this type of act committed abroad is, as many people have been involved, extremely difficult – close to impossible. Implementing the changes we are now proposing, to which the Storting agrees, will provide us with a good tool in the fight against foreign fighter activity. Then more, both representatives Ellingsen, Nybø and the last speakers, have been involved in the dilemmas that this also entails. I believe that the committee is also well addressed in the vote. We believe very clearly that the model that has now been chosen is correct, both because one here is clear about what is forbidden – there are objective conditions for the ban – and because one has a let me call it a sensible clause by saying that it is prosecution only in cases where there are general considerations that require such a charge. I believe that the model that SV is now proposing, which we have also considered quite thoroughly in the course of this legislative work, will create much more uncertainty and confusion. It will also create some major foreign policy challenges that I don't think we should underestimate the consequences of. Then you will have a government that, on behalf of the nation, would have to take a concrete position in all kinds of conflicts where this might be relevant. It'll be a whole new practice, it'll put us in a whole new situation, and I think it's necessary to consider what consequences it might have. I therefore believe it is important that we land on the solution that has this, call it the goodness clause that takes care of the interest in ensuring the possibility of continuing the legitimate struggle for freedom. Because that's what it's going to do in practice. Then, of course, it would be very simple if we could make laws that said that those who are kind, should not be punished, and that those who are bad, we should punish. This is probably very difficult in practice, but I think we have found the solution that is closest to the ideal, with the government's proposals. I also want – briefly – to be clear on some of the exceptions contained in this penalty. What is allowed to take place in armed conflict today shall not be affected by this proposal. For example, it will. be State forces, those providing humanitarian or sanitary assistance, or those who can invoke emergency rights. There is also an important point on which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been very clear, and on which I have been concerned in the past, that there is only a charge in the cases where public interest is advocating. This is innovative legislation. We are at the forefront of Europe, and I am absolutely convinced that there are several European countries that are going to look to Norway in the future, including Norway. based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e404	There is no doubt that there are different sides to the plus and minus side of the various proposals that have been in this case and in this discussion here, and this is not that simple. However, I have a question to the Council of State about the solution chosen, both by the government and by the Storting. For the Labour Party's representative Jorod Asphjell was up and said it was important that the Council of State make sure that it is now passed, to hit terrorists and not peace fighters, and that's a wish it's okay to join. But all that time, I wonder how the Council of State has intended to meet the wishes of the representative of Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e412	As the representative of Rotevatn knows, the prosecution authority is independent in individual cases and therefore it will be the prosecution authority that will assess whether there is a public interest or not. And then I have great confidence that the prosecution authority is connected to the real world, and therefore is well able to make such a kind of assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e417	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e422	I would also like to make some comments about what most people have discussed, and that was my point in the line-up right now, and that is the general criminalisation of participation in military, armed conflict, that the committee is now in favour of. It is clear that this solution has some advantages, including: that now it is objectively forbidden to be both freedom fighters and terrorists. It's a good thing to stick around, and then the prosecution can think of making exceptions on a case-by-case basis. But that's exactly what's problematic. First of all, I have to say that what we are now discussing is a bit of a theoretical exercise, all the time it is criminal to join terrorist organisations and, not least, to carry out the actions that one will perform in war and conflict. So what we're discussing here is the way I see it essentially a way to streamline the prosecution, and maybe simplify the evidence theme, and that's a pretty straightforward discussion. But it is good to bear it in mind – as also the representative Nybø was about to see a general preventive effect here on individuals who have seen life so to the extent that they are at risk by going out and putting themselves at risk, one must, unfortunately, not have too much hope. But what is the difficult question is this with a preliminary assessment for Norwegian citizens, taking the decision they may make about going out and participating in an armed conflict. So you don't want to know if it's legal or not. Then one might say that we have full confidence in the prosecution authority, and that they take wise judgements, as the government council Anundsen said in his reply to me just, where he denies that he can make the kind of assessments that the Labour Party asked him to do. So it is also the case that the prosecutor's authority does not want that responsibility and in his hearing has said that it is fundamentally doubtful and asks for another solution. That's the solution that SV has proposed today, for which the Left will vote. It is enough that what we are talking about here – in addition to a question of ex-ante evaluation – is a very fundamental political issue, i.e. what kind of conflicts we think it should be criminal to participate in or not, and whether the political assessment should lie with the prosecution authority, which is independent, or with elected politicians. I don't think the solution chosen by the committee is the best, to put it that way, at least not when the same prosecution authority doesn't want that responsibility. Then it is likely that the proposal that SV has made will be put to the vote today, and then I shall certainly add it for the sake of order that the Left will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e435	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e449	This matter shall be brought before the Court of Justice by a unanimous judicial committee. These are amendments to the Police Act to clarify that visa police officers are also to be appointed on an annual basis for six years, with the possibility of a further six-year extension. This is a follow-up to the police reform, which is supported by a broad majority in the United Kingdom. It may seem like a small matter, but this is an important part of the focus that the Justice Committee, the Government and the Stortinget have had on this by promoting police leadership and culture and making sure that our leaders are accountable, and that they will have the opportunity to follow up and be police leaders in the new districts. I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind this amendment, which is an important step in the follow-up to an important police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e458	Like Ulf Leirstein, I also think it is good that in this case too, a unanimous committee is presenting the vote. But now we're dealing with Prop. 60 L for 2015–2016, which deals with changes in the police law, specifically the appointment of show police officers on annual targets, it is important to turn the clock back a little, until 10 June 2015, when the Stortinget dealt with Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015, on the security of everyday life, i.e. the near-police reform, in which the Stortinget decided to reduce the number of police districts from 27 to 12, on the grounds of developing ‘a better and more modern police force, which works more effectively, better equipped to meet the crime challenges of the future and creating security where people live and move’. Through this decision, the government has an important responsibility to achieve the objectives that the Stortinget has so clearly set through this decision – objectives that the police themselves, the municipalities and not least society have high expectations of. Therefore, it is worrying when a person receives concerns about the follow-up to these clear objectives. When an overall committee joins the proposal to appoint the new police officers of the future on a yearly basis, it is also in the context of the debate on change in culture, leadership and transparency in the police. New police districts, new structures and new organisation shall ensure better and wider competence in prevention, investigation and operational services. The changes facing the establishment will require dynamic leadership, with constant demands for development and renewal. The working party has noted that the vast majority of respondents have agreed to the proposal to introduce six-year annual target positions for women’spoliticians, with the possibility of extending once for a period of six years. The Workers' Party also subscribes to the reason that vice-politicians are to be appointed by the King of the Council of State. The changes facing the police action will require dynamic leadership, and the Vice-Presidents will be given a clearer and more real leadership task, and will be the deputy of the police officer and have a clear support function as the main task. This is the basis for our assessment and our attitude. So on the basis of what has been said and taken into account, the Labour Party will join the recommendation of a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e477	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e491	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e498	The starting point is that punishment is to be imposed by the courts. In a number of areas, administrative sanctions can be imposed on the administration today, defined as administrative sanctions. A main objective of the proposal is to facilitate a more consistent approach to cases where administrative penalties are applied within the legal framework. The proposal does not contain proposals for new provisions for administrative penalties and reactions. The starting point in Norwegian law is that punishment is to be imposed by the courts, but administrative sanctions can often be a proper alternative to punishment and prosecution. The requirement for the use of administrative penalties must be that it is legally sound and that administrative penalties should not be applied if less restrictive measures such as imposition or periodic penalty payments would ensure compliance with the law. An overall committee endorses the proposal that administrative penalties be applied as a starting point only in the case of minor offences. whereas, on the other hand, undertakings have greater scope for the use of these penalties, but this also applies to legal certainty requirements; The new rules will collectively set the necessary legal framework for the application of administrative penalties. A unanimous committee agrees with the proposal for a new chapter of the Administrative Law on administrative penalties. The new chapter shall ensure that the rules apply in all sectors of management, unless the specific laws themselves provide for derogations. This provides more consistent and transparent legislation, which puts the system of administrative specific reactions in a system. A single committee emphasises that the new rules of the Administrative Act are an important measure to ensure legal certainty for individuals and businesses subject to administrative sanctions from the administration. In order for the new rules to function properly — and that should be the intention, to say the least — it is necessary to highlight the importance of the proper competence of the administrative body and the existence of the correct systems for proper procedures. The granting of powers for the application of administrative penalties should be limited if it is unclear whether the administrative body concerned has the necessary competence to carry out a procedure which ensures legal certainty in all possible ways. Finally, there has been an incurrency intrusion into the notes. This is column 2 on page 4, section 4, of the notes. It says: ‘These penalties may be infringement fees or arbitrary withdrawals of official authorisations, also referred to as administrative loss of rights.’; So here's the point: ‘Examples of this may include withdrawal of grant or building permit.’ Withdrawal of building permits is not to be regarded as an administrative loss of rights, nor as an administrative sanction.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e530	In this case, too, there is a unanimous committee, so there is good cooperation in the Justice Committee between all parties. When we treat Prop today. 62 L on amendments to the Administrative Act, which deals with administrative penalties, etc., is intended to facilitate a more comprehensive handling of administrative penalty cases. There was a very correct and good clarification the case rapporteur here had, related to this with the revocation of building permits. Ensuring the legal framework and meeting the legal certainty requirements imposed by the Constitution and the International Conventions must be taken into account, then in the first row of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. Today, we have a wide range of jurisdictions in specific legislation that allow administration to impose criminal-like responses to individuals or businesses in the form of so-called administrative sanctions. This was well prepared. The Committee emphasises that penalties are to be imposed mainly by the courts, but that administrative penalties may be a proper alternative to the punishment and prosecution of individual cases. The working party will raise some issues, such as: points 12, Special provisions on grounds of sanction and personal prerequisites for liability. In point 12.4 the Department discusses inter alia: whether there should be a lower age limit in order to impose an administrative penalty. I record that the ministry is landing on the fact that they will not propose a lower age limit in order to impose an administrative penalty, but instead say that this should be resolved separately if a practical need arises, and it is shown, among other things. to the Road Traffic Act. This, I think, is a point that deserves at least a comment or a comment, all the time several of the sanctions are meant to have a punitive effect and that several of the administrative sanctions are intended to replace different penalties and penalties, where there will be a lower penalty framework. If the Council of State could give a deepening of this point and how the ministry would follow up if there were special needs that needed a practical solution, it would have been great. The lot will also draw attention to item 24.1, applicable law, in the proposition. It concerns the fact that administrative sanctions do not trigger the right to free legal aid. We will then be able to experience that individuals cannot afford to bring a case before the courts as it can be very expensive. Is this a change in today's law? And could this possibly weaken legal certainty for some if they don't see any advice to prosecute a case into the courts? It would have been nice if the Council of State had had the opportunity to share its views on this issue and on how the Ministry would follow up the provisions if the practice were to have adverse consequences for the legal certainty of individuals. The Committee stresses that the new rules of the Administrative Act should ensure legal certainty for individuals and activities subject to administrative penalties from the administration. The Committee would stress that the more radical the sanctions are, the more important it is that the law, regulation and any procedural guidelines are designed so as to minimise doubts as to the objectivity and independence of the management body.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e556	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough and good report. What should be said, was said, so actually, you might not be able to draw. But you often want to fill in a little bit anyway. I also want to thank the Minister of Justice, because he has had a personal commitment to this matter, I have registered. I don't know if it's because he's experienced a lot of administrative sanctions – I guess it's not for that reason, but because this is actually a legal security reform as well. That's an important point. The rapporteur elaborated this very well in his point of order. Administrative penalties are adverse reactions which may be imposed by an administrative body, which are directed against an infringement of law, regulation or individual decision. Administrative penalties are the penalties provided for under the European Convention on Human Rights. The starting point is that punishment is to be imposed by the courts. In a number of areas today, there is scope for administration to impose criminal-like responses, which we are then dealing with today. I record that in the proposition, the Ministry recommends when it is appropriate to use administrative sanctions as an alternative to punishment, in particular in the case of breaches of public law. It is important for legal certainty that legislation is now reviewed in the light of a comprehensive presentation of responses bordering on punishment. The new rules will increase legal certainty about the use of administrative sanctions – therefore we should also call this a legal security reform – procedural guarantees in the handling of cases by the administration and extended court proceedings compared to what traditionally happens under Norwegian law. An increased focus on legal certainty has been important for the Progress Party, and I am pleased that we have a unanimous committee on this matter. Finally, I would like to give an example of improving legal certainty. There are proposals for a new section 48, where the administration is required to inform about the protection against self-incrimination. This protection is an essential guarantee of legal certainty. It is important to formalise and legislate an obligation on the management body to inform about the possibility of self-incrimination in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e571	There are already several permits in special legislation that allow administrative sanctions to be imposed, such as an infringement fee or the revocation of public authorizations. Such sanctions are used more often and more often as an alternative to criminal prosecution. As it's been mentioned here, we're happy some of the committees in this case, so I'm not going to keep a long post, but I want to bring forward some things that we in the Center Party are busy with. The main objective of the proposal is to facilitate the more uniform and secure handling of administrative sanctions. It shall also facilitate compliance with legal certainty guarantees in practice, legal certainty guarantees provided by the Constitution and international conventions on human rights, including the European Convention on Human Rights, EMC. I would like to stress that the use of such sanctions must be legally justified and that this should not be used if minor intervention is available and will be sufficient to ensure that the legislation is followed up. It is very important that important guarantees of legal certainty, such as the prohibition of double criminal prosecution, protection against self-incrimination and access to justice, are taken into account. The granting of authority for the use of administrative penalties should be limited if it is unclear whether the administrative body concerned has the necessary competence. In addition, I would like to stress that there should be rules on retirement when new special laws are prepared or amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e582	Let me also thank the rapporteur for a good report and good cooperation, and not least the committee for unanimous support. The representative, Asphjell, realized that there was good cooperation in the committee, and it created unanimity. That's very good. I am well allowed on behalf of the government to say that the government is helping to lay the foundation by sending good things to Stortinget! The result is uplifting. We've been busy working on a lot of other issues. That's why it's too tempting for me to leave it alone, but this is a follow-up of NOU 2003: 15 from bot to recovery. For 16 years, many have called for the follow-up of From bot to recovery and to get the framework in place to which Stortinget now unanimously joins. I'm very happy about that. It is a comprehensive work that is behind what is now being presented, and it will help to make the enforcement of legislation more effective. What is in many ways the main point behind this proposition is that, in addition to penalties, one should be able to enforce legislation more effectively through the application of administrative sanctions where appropriate. It is true that several speakers have pointed out that there has been an increase in the use of administrative sanctions in specific legislation, without having a general framework in place. That is why it is very good that we now have that framework in place in the Administrative Act, so that in future specific legislation can relate to the frameworks of the Administrative Act. In addition, this, I believe, will contribute to a more consistent follow-up to how administrative sanctions and sanctions are designed and enforced. So it's a contribution to the simplification work, too. The rules of the Administrative Penalty Act shall apply only to cases relating to punishment in the sense of the EMK. There must be a limit to other administrative responses, typically where the criminal term is not prominent. It may be difficult in some cases, but I believe that the proposition will contribute to good guidance at this point. The Committee also stresses the importance of limitation rules as a guarantee of legal certainty and states that provisions on limitation should be included in the preparation of new specific laws or amendments thereto. I'm joining that starting point. At the same time, I would like to stress that the practical need for the rules on limitation may vary considerably according to different sanctioning regimes. In addition to the proposals for legislative amendments, which are intended to be adopted unanimously, the proposal contains a separate notification section, which provides recommendations as to whether new provisions for administrative penalties should be introduced and, in that case, how to lay down the rules in each specific law. It is a key point that administrative sanctions should be introduced where appropriate, and I am pleased that the Committee is also committed to it. The amendment ensures, in conjunction with the recommendations, a consistent approach to administrative penalties, which in turn ensures equal treatment at large. I hope that these changes and guidelines can help both to manage and increase the number of laws coming in the years to come. Then, of course, any legal security challenges or challenges that will arise along the way will have to be addressed to a large extent in future legislation in this area – as a follow-up to the questions raised by the representative Asphjell. This will have to be taken into account in the current future legislative proposals. Because there are no changes to the specific reaction system itself that are already established in the specific legislation, but it will guide what is coming in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e613	The first speaker is Jan Arild Ellingsen, who acts as rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e616	It is clear that the Justice Committee is in a good voice, so I will continue in the same direction. This is a unanimous matter, to which, of course, we expect a total increase to join. You might also say that there is a different level of importance in matters you deal with, but for those who are affected, the matter that affects them most is the most important one. The matter that I am going to present now concerns a law prohibiting the use of children as interpreters between the administration and the private sector. You might ask the question, why haven't we done this before? The answer may be in the air, but we're doing it today, and it's a step in the right direction. The most important thing is to prevent children from being placed in a loyalty conflict between their immediate and the administrative apparatus. It would be unreasonable and could at least lead to situations and experiences that children should not be exposed to. In that way, it cleans up. In addition, when an interpreter is needed, the interpreter must have the necessary competence to ensure that the person to whom he or she is to perform the interpretation. So once again, children don't have to do that, so they have to use a professional interpreter. Fortunately, at the same time, an exemption has been granted in the event of an emergency and emergency. Of course, you can't look for an interpreter if a crisis occurs – then you make the best of the situation there and then and make sure you solve things right away. With this, I once again recommend an overall approach from the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e629	Surveys carried out by IMDi show that children are used as interpreters on several occasions. These are public offices, permanent agencies, child protection, criminal justice, primary school and Nav offices, where it is evident that children in the role of interpreters can be involved in difficult aspects of adult life, with which children are not to be burdened. This is a practice that cannot be continued. There is currently no legal prohibition on the use of children as interpreters in the legislation in force, but it follows from the second paragraph of Section 104 of the Constitution that the best interests of the child shall be fundamental to acts and decisions affecting the child. The best of children is also a principle of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Interpretation is also a profession. There is a subject that requires interpretative qualifications to be carried out and it is obvious that children do not have these formal qualifications. There will therefore always be a danger that information will be misunderstood, and that things will not be well lit. The Ministry now proposes — happily — to legislate in the Administrative Act against the use of children as interpreters or to provide information between the administration and the private. The Committee shall be unanimous in its support of the proposal submitted. Greater use of professional interpreters will lead to economic consequences, but it does not legitimise the use of children in interpreting services. I therefore expect the government to follow up the economic consequences and provide the economic space necessary for the training and use of professional interpreters. I would also point to the Committee's clear view that consent from adult family members, or from the child itself, cannot exempt the administrative body from the prohibition in the law. Children must have children and not be required to perform services that are the responsibility of adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e642	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e656	I thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter as well. We are incredibly capable, and have a very good government, of course! It is a unanimous committee that today joins the government's proposal for consent to the conclusion of two agreements on police cooperation, with the EU and the United States respectively. The case has been submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, which is associated with the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights without further comment. In this case, we are dealing, as I said, with two agreements on police cooperation, with the EU and the United States respectively. The agreement between the EU and Norway – the Prüm agreement – involves Norwegian support to most of the EU legislation in the so-called Prüm decisions. The agreement between Norway and the United States — the PCSC agreement — concerns enhanced cooperation on the prevention and combating of serious crime. The Prüm Agreement provides for Norwegian support to the majority of EU legislation in the so-called Prüm decisions, while the PCSC Agreement provides for a separate regulation of how cooperation between Norway and the United States is to be conducted. Both agreements concern inter alia: direct search of the police authorities of the Parties in reference data from each other’s DNA and fingerprint records for crime control. During the committee procedure, the Committee refers to the proposal, which states that it is necessary to assume that the Prüm decisions will become increasingly important for police cooperation in Europe, and that if Norway has worse forms of cooperation than other Schengen States, it may lead to Norway becoming a more attractive country for criminals to operate in or from. With regard to the PCSC agreement with the United States, the United States, as part of its visa waiver programme, has required all States wishing to participate in this programme to enter into a PCSC agreement on enhanced cooperation in the prevention and combating of serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e671	Sometimes one can get the impression that some of the accession agreements have a very formal character, but the Prüm agreement, which relates to the conclusion of cooperation with EU countries, has a very large reality. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review of the facts of the matter, because it is simply about strengthening international police cooperation in Europe. I am very pleased that we have reached this accession agreement, that we are finally getting it sanctioned and that Norway is getting as good cooperation with the European police as it needs. We have a situation where organised crime and other serious crime to a much greater extent than before are cross-border. In the past, gangs carrying out different criminal activities, also well-organised, had within Norwegian borders, but the symptomatic now is that crime no longer relates to national borders. It is essential that we have close and good police cooperation, and this will provide a good practical framework for this. In addition, the Prüm Agreement provides for assistance between the contracting countries, which may also be important for Norway in specific situations and provide a platform for the assistance that may be crucial in different preparedness contexts. I would also like to mention briefly that the PCSC agreement with the United States is an agreement that the US authorities have been very concerned about going into place, among other things. as part of the continuation of the Visa Waiver programme, of which Norway is part, to which the rapporteur also correctly pointed. The fact that we now get an even closer and closer search collaboration is very positive. As far as the PCSC agreement is concerned, the searchability in practice will be about fingerprints, not DNA, as is the case today, because of US legislation. And it can change as you go. It is, in fact, a very big day today for the fight against organized and serious crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e686	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e700	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e707	This is a proposal from the Labour Party which deals with women in prison. The proposals are at the back of the minority, the Labour Party and the Center Party, and I expect that they themselves will explain their proposals. In addition, all parties are concerned with the conditions of women in prison. There should be no doubt that the Right is concerned that women and men should have equivalent relations during the criminal proceedings. Right looks at this as of course we don't always have to repeat the important message in every context, but our policy is firm: women and men must have equivalent relationships. Similarly, it is, of course, for women to be confident that, when the criminal justice system is responsible for the implementation of the criminal law system, measures that rehabilitate in a good way should also be introduced so that they are not subjected to harassment or violence during the course of criminal proceedings. There has been no lack of reports, adjustments and formal governance documents over the years that have highlighted the shortcomings in the conditions of women under criminal law, most recently in last year's KDI report, which stresses that women should be in custody and carry out penalties in their own units, organised for the needs of women. To this end, the right is in line with the strategy of the KDI to be developed this year, with measures for imprisoned and convicted women. When we took over the government offices, there were 1,200 contingent judges in pay queues. The government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, has put in place various measures focusing on bringing down the settlement queues, thus ensuring a faster resolution of the sentences, but not least helping people to move faster into a life after an end. The high pay queue and the level of coverage in prisons also contributed greatly to the pressure on the way in which the punishment was carried out. It is commendable that the Workers' Party is concerned with women's conditions in prison today, but if they had been equally concerned about this while they were in government offices, they might have come further with the establishment of new prisons before leaving government offices. Our government is now delivering well on the establishment of new prison sites as well as on the conclusion of the rental agreement with the Netherlands. The last shot on the stem was presented by the revised national budget yesterday, which proposes a total of 10 million. kr for the design of a new prison in Mandal. Now the housing queue is below half and the coverage is below approx. 95 pst. This is important to be able to give women better atonement. There are still few women in prison compared to men, and they are getting fewer. The number of new prisoners in prison in 2014 was 773, representing 8.4 pst. by all insertions. In comparison, the number of new inmates was 872 in 2013. This shows that there is a positive development. So I know that there are many good plans for new prison buildings around the country. In Trondheim, there are good plans, the same in Skodje on Sunnmøre and Ilseng, and not least there is a desire for a new prison in the Ofoten region – just to mention someone. We have a lot to deal with, and we're going to do a good job further.Now we're looking forward to the escalation plan to respond to some of the challenges in terms of settlement capacity and future prison building. Then I would also like to comment that the proposal that exists from the Left in this matter will be supported by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e731	Thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough examination and for the willingness of the Committee to give room for consultation on this matter. The conditions for women in prison have to be taken seriously, and there are three things that have to be done: we have to have more women's units, our own prisons, we have to have better treatment for trauma and mental illness, and follow-up to the recommendations in the Crime Prevention Report, Equal Opportunities for Women and Men under the responsibility of criminal law, must be put in place quickly. As the rapporteur said, women in prison account for about 8-10 p.m. by the captive population, and several women zones in sex-mixed prisons. And let there be no doubt; women who commit crime shall zone their punishment, in line with others. However, they should also have the same opportunities for active rehabilitation, schooling and activity as men under restitution. Bredtveit, with Rusmesstring unit, Ravneberget and Sandefjord, are pure women's prisons with approx. 120 places. The Ravne Mountains and the Rusmstring Unit at Bredtveit both were realised during the Stoltenberg administration. In mixed prisons, women are a minority. Report. St. 37 for 2007–08, as the Stoltenberg government presented in 2008, points to the special challenges women face during reconciliation: the morbidity rate is higher, for both physical and mental illnesses. Several have untreated traumas after assault and violence, exclusion occurs more often, and the degree of shame is greater. Stigma related to the role of mother and at the same time criminal, for example, is difficult. Socially, economically, and healthly, they are worse off than men who are sons. Studies show that employment services have been traditionally gender stereotypes, such as cleaning, cooking, sewing and manual work activities that are not part of any training cycle. The women need a rehabilitation that starts with the individual and enables them to manage themselves when they get out. It's not like that today. Rehabilitation must prevent the trauma of many of the women as victims of violence and assault, not destroying the possibility of being rehabilitated. That is why the Labour Party in our alternative budgets has allocated 10 million. to improve access to mental health care and treatment for women. Women are also subjected to violence, assault, threats and harassment during their soning. It's not acceptable. They are less likely to participate in equal opportunities in mixed prisons because logistics is becoming too challenging. Women have a smaller community. Programme activities have been reduced in several prisons, and in many places the programme activities for women have actually been completely cut. I've visited Bredtveit, Ravneberget and prisons where women sons with men, and I've listened to volunteers working with female inmates, like JURK, and talked to employees. They say it's going in the wrong direction. The situation won't get better, it'll get worse. Rather than reducing, the government's lack of action increases the risk of repeat crime and the maintenance of miserable living conditions for women. This government has been responsible for the criminal justice system for almost three years. Unfortunately, we see that women are not prioritised. In Report. St. 12 for 2014-2015, on the capacity of criminal services, is the number of women approximately. and a quarter of a page. The government has here, as in gender equality policy, provided an adequate problem description without action. The phasing-out and phasing-out plan, which we have been waiting for, has been boiled down to a two-page review in the revised budget, and women are not even mentioned. I get a little insecure when the representative from the Right asks for a stepping-up plan to come. Is it possible for the Council of State to determine whether it has come to the revision of the national budget or whether there will be a new escalation plan in addition to it? At least it is not mentioned in the revised national budget. This is serious. In 2010, the then justice spokeswoman Åse Michaelsen was in Harnish that women and men were sonned in the same prison: ‘The Great Mountain makes prison a whorehouse’, was her way of expressing herself, and she feared that the reconciliation led to imprisoned women continuing their lives on the wrong side of the law when they left prison. Government parties today have the chance to take action. They can vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Workers’ Party on better content, more units and a concrete follow-up to the recommendations contained in the Crime DG’s report, or they can continue to do what they have done now – talk and not act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e761	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e764	The nice thing about describing the story is that you can do it completely subjectively. That is of course a good thing, because then you can define away the unpleasant, and then you can cling to what you think is right – which we have just heard examples from this pulpit. At the same time, I give the Workers' Party credit because you want to point out something that you obviously are not satisfied with. You're right about that, because you were responsible for the same sector for eight years without a big boost, as I remember the story, at least. But again – that doesn’t mean it’s not a good thing to point it out now, and also point out that today’s government hasn’t done enough. At the same time, it's probably going to be so that the composition of the Storing will vary forward, so this is probably going to repeat itself, but from different positions. For the Progress Party, the point is that those who are to carry out a criminal penalty through a detention centre should do so under the given conditions laid down by the law. This means that the considerations to be taken into account are the responsibility of the government for compliance. That's the way it should be, and that's the way it has to be. The size of a crime cannot be accepted by either party, but those who are by definition punished for a crime must be at the ready for that crime. In that way, we're on the right track. The government has pointed out that we need a larger settlement capacity. The previous speaker pointed out that the direct position of women in Meld was to a small extent pointed out. St. 12 for 2014–2015, but Meld. St. 12 refers to the settlement capacity – as I remember, at least – i.e. the overall picture. I believe that this has been handled in a good way; it has already been followed up by the revised national budget, which was presented yesterday. As has been said, the person who commits an act that he should not have done should have been sentenced to that. In that case, he/she must carry out his/her sentence within the terms of the criminal enforcement law.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e777	First, I would like to thank the proposer for addressing an important issue. It is also a recognition that there has been too bad atonement for women in prison over time. We have to strive to do something about it. That's why, like previous speakers, I want to refer to what's going to happen. The capacity announcement, or the phase-out and development plan in the criminal service, has been notified to come to us in the spring. In it, the Judicial Committee pointed out – and I believe it was unanimous, if not in the remark, at different levels – that reconciliation for women was also important, and that it had to be addressed in the message. I take the floor for two things: one is because I want to problem selecting units or departments in each individual or in some prisons versus building my own women's prisons. There I believe there is no obvious answer on which way to go. Therefore, I would like to ask that the capacity message also assess when looking forward, because if there are few women in one prison, the offer they can get, different rates and such, may be less than if you have your own prisons and they should be for themselves. That's why this is a dilemma we have to look at. The second is that the left has a loose proposal, and I expect that the left will explain afterwards. I just want to let you know that there is a proposal we want to support. Although the comments are very clear, and the setting from the previous time is very clear, I believe that the proposal as it is designed only addresses a lot of the same thing. I know that the Left does not agree with the comments because they are not on the committee, but I still think the proposal is good, and we are going to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e784	The great majority in Norwegian prison are men. Women's involvement is clearly minority, and therefore it is important to ensure good and secure reconciliation for them as well. The centre party has joined all the proposals from the Labour Party and is now a co-presenter, because we think it's a good proposal and an important theme. Women in prison tend to have different challenges and needs than men in prison, and it is a key objective in the implementation of criminal sanctions that individuals in prison should receive good rehabilitation. The goal is to be able to live a law-abiding life after atonement. I think it is important to put in place measures to solve the problems of female prisoners during the criminal proceedings. The state has a responsibility to keep women safe when he governs their lives for a period of time and executes condemned punishment. It is necessary to include measures to rehabilitate this group of prisoners and to ensure that they are not subjected to harassment or are selected during the criminal proceedings. I still think there is a great need for more settlements and better settlements for women, both Norwegian citizens and residents with foreign backgrounds. In particular, I would like to stress that in Sunndal in More and Romesdal there are plans for a women's prison that can ensure that the need for settlements outside the central east region is met, and especially in regions west and north. The plans are based in the municipality on their long-standing and extensive work on refugees and are well anchored in the political and administrative leadership of the county. Through the work of refugees, the municipality of Sunndal, other public institutions, the business community and the community have developed competences and good services to integrate and manage people in crisis. Such a women's prison planned in Sunndal will be able to sustain and rehabilitate women's deployments in a good way. I believe that resources need to be set for further development of these plans. Together with the Labour Party, we suggest in the Centre Party that the government must ensure that the next prison to be built in the country is built with its own women's unit. After all, several new prisons will be built in the years to come, and yesterday, as mentioned in the previous debate, the money in the revised national budget will be used to design new prisons in Agder, with notice of possible start-up in 2017. I hope the government sees the need for this prison to be built with a separate women's unit and that they follow this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e795	First, I would like to thank the Labour Party and the representatives behind this proposal for promoting such a proposal. As many have said, it is obvious that men and women should have the same atoning conditions when they zone. Like many others in this room, I have been visiting several prisons, and I have talked to prison employees – in criminal matters – who are concerned about the settlement conditions under which the women are living, and who are quite clear that there is a difference between the settlement conditions for men and women, even though they are sons in the same prison. Of course we don't want it like that. It's not about women not going to pay for their punishment, or it's going to be easier for them to take a prison sentence. It's about men and women not being able to treat differently when they're going to pay a penalty that's imposed on them by the state, and they're in our custody. I would like to address the proposal that the Left has submitted. The reason we submit such a proposal is because we initially agree with many of the intentions of the Workers' Party in the proposals they are promoting, but we do not necessarily agree with their wording. And since we're not in the committee, and we don't have the opportunity to write comments or participate in the process that's taking place in advance, we've chosen to promote our own proposal. We have also done that because we believe there is a need for the Storting to be clear to the government that this is something we should actually take seriously, that equivalent reconciliation for men and women is something we want to look at and pay attention to when it comes to the construction of new prisons, rehabilitation and other things we do in criminal matters. I'm glad that both the government parties and the Christian People's Party now announce that they want to support the proposal, because then I perceive that we get a majority for it, and I also perceive that the Stortinget is clear to the government that special attention should be paid to women when working with the criminal services ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e802	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e806	First, let me thank the rapporteur for a very good review of the matter and the proposals that have been put forward here. I also want to thank the proposers for raising an important topic. I actually think there are a lot of important and good relationships that are being addressed. But at the same time, I also believe that politics should be more than opening doors. I'm e.g. The representative Henriksen from the Labour Party agreed here on the floor, with the exception of the usual political kicks that Henriksen brings, that developments are going in the wrong direction, and that we are talking and not acting. The government has, for example: Recent contributions to the creation of 18 new prison places for women in Kragerø prison. It's more than talking. However, it is important that prisons are organised for women and women’s particular needs. I fully agree with the rapporteurs, and this has already been emphasised by the government in the report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. As a general rule, women are to be penalised by their own prisons. If women are to be penalised in prisons with male prisoners, it shall be done in specially sheltered wards with organised offers. It involves both structural and substantive organisation. When creating new women's shelters, these shall be established in line with the guidance and recommendations mentioned in the notification. As I mentioned, criminal services have turned Telemark Prison, Kragerø Department into a clean women's prison with 18 new places. There are, therefore, four clean women’s prisons in Norway today. It is – as others have been in – Bredtveit, Ravneberget, Sandefjord and Kragerø, with a total of 144 places. In addition, there are 58 women's seats in six common prisons. Most women's seats are located in specially sheltered wards. As of 2 May, 277 women were imprisoned. 22 had other stays outside prison in a treatment institution. This means that 53 women were in prisons organized for men. I want that number to be 0, and we're on the right track. With regard to the point of organisation to meet the specific needs of women, there is some government going on. The government has recently put forward a proposal to reorganise criminal services from today's three levels to a two-level model without regions. One of the objectives is to strengthen the provision of services to the courts, where the sentence is to be placed in the centre. The proposal includes, inter alia: an organisation facilitating the follow-up of specific challenges and needs of female prisoners and convictions. The government is proposing a separate special unit directly under the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, which is to have a specific responsibility for the provision of compensation to women throughout the country. The provision of women who are being punished in society, for example: electronic control shall be accompanied by this special purpose unit. The unit shall have special competence in this group of prisoners, including: in the fields of health, education, work and child care. Administration and management will be added to one of the existing women's units. Proposal No. 3, which relates to mental health provision for female prisoners, addresses difficult issues, and I share the representatives’ concerns about women’s serious history, inter alia. sexual assault. The government wants to ensure that the special purpose unit has the necessary special competence to meet the specific needs of female prisoners and convictions, so that women are given the necessary help to process their difficult life experiences. I would also like to say two words about the fourth proposal, which concerns the follow-up to the report on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men under the responsibility of criminal law. The report describes the key needs of women in criminal proceedings and outlines a number of proposals on women’s reconciliation. It should be stressed that women are to be held in custody and to carry out punishments in their own units specifically organised for the needs of women. During 2016, as the rapporteur was also involved, a strategy shall be drawn up with measures for imprisoned and convicted women, which naturally include the content of the report in that work. Nor do I have any challenges with the direction that the Left proposal gives us. It is a proposal which is framed at the overall level and which builds up in the direction in which the government is already working, and I understand that the government parties have also said that they will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e827	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e830	During this period, in the three years that this government has had governmental power, the Labour Party has made several proposals on the content of prisons, linked to programme activities, among others. the content of prisons in general. We've been shielding to Bredtveit, plus that we've given 10 million. kr for female-related health measures. We have proposed child contacts in all prisons, we have proposals for women in prison, and we have also proposed our own women's unit in prison in Agder. The government parties have voted in favour of all these proposals, except for one, which they have approved, but have not gone as far as the Workers' Party has done. At the same time, this government grants approximately 800,000 kroner every day to male prisoners in temporary detention in the Netherlands. Does the Minister see that this is a bias that makes the reconciliation of women worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e837	That question must be caused by a manifest misunderstanding. The fact that we have better access to shelters makes us free women's spaces in separate wards and better provision of shelters for women. If we had had an even stronger pressure on the settlements we have in Norway, the conditions for women would not be better — rather, on the contrary. What we have achieved in prisons in the Netherlands is that the pressure in prison places in Norway is dramatically reduced, the pay queue is halved, the pay queue for women is much shorter, and we have more effective penalties. So I just don't understand the premise behind that question. If we had a corresponding number of prison places in Norway, we would pay about the same amount per prison place, as well as we would have to pay for the investment costs. So that's a question that I have a hard time understanding the basics of, really.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e844	It is not the first time that the Minister of Justice does not understand the premise or the background to the question, but I can try a different wording. The Minister of Justice said in his speech – he referred from Meld. St. 12 for 2014–2015 – that women should zone in their own units or in their own prisons. How can the Minister of Justice explain to Stortinget that when a male inmate moves out of a department, where women are not going to zone, it leads to better reconciliation for women?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e851	I don't know if that change in wording made the premises either clearer or better, in my case at least. It is possible that my ability to perceive what the representative is really after, which does not go to, but the point is that at a lower pressure in prison places in Norway, it will be easier to organise women as sons in prisons. There are still women who don't zone on satisfactory terms, to call it that, in terms of shielding from male inmates. So having lower pressures on prisons and prisons in Norway could help to better facilitate the provision of services for women prisoners as sons in ordinary prisons. So I still have major problems understanding how the funding of prisons for male prisoners in the Netherlands, which helps to improve the situation for all prisoners in Norway, would be challenging in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e858	I understand that the Minister of Justice has difficulty understanding that, but I expect the Minister of Justice to come back to the Stortinget with documentation and a statement in the big message that representatives of the government parties are now saying to come. I have two questions: can we expect to get the kind of documentation in the document that comes to Stortinget, on how the decline in the pay queue has improved the compensation conditions for women? And is that how to understand, as representatives of the government parties here say – and I believe in them – and can the Minister of Justice confirm that we are getting a new escalation and phase-out plan this spring, as the Minister of Justice has previously promised, and that the two sides of the revised national budget are not that plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e865	The contingency plan will be submitted in accordance with the plan. At least that's the plan. But I still have difficulty understanding what the representative Henriksen is after. In a situation where there are initially too few settlements, a situation where one receives more settlements — in this case in the Netherlands — will lead to lower pressure on the settlement sites in Norway. That means there's a little more room for action to individualize the reconciliation of the prisoners, including women. There is really no need to provide any more evidence of that. One can look at the housing statistics, see how high it is in the use of housing facilities and how this work is done in practice. It is not possible for me to understand that there should be a link between a poor offer for women in Norwegian prisons and the fact that we finance prisons in the Netherlands. I think it's a very sought-after issue, and I hope for the future we can be more constructive in solving the challenges that we're actually agreeing to solve, instead of dealing with such fictitious issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e872	I showed in my post the plans of a women's prison in Sunndal in More and Romesdal. They see the need for private settlements for women in the North and West regions and build plans of diverse and relevant competences in the area. What does the Council of State say about these plans, and does he think it might be appropriate to set aside money to sort out these plans further?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e879	As the representative Klinge is well-known, the government is now working on an escalation plan for criminal services, and there these issues will be addressed. It will be very inappropriate for the Minister of Justice, who will present this to Stortinget, to address individual projects of the kind that the petitioner addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e884	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e890	I would like to thank the Justice Committee for its commitment to this matter and the government for the small steps taken in the work of women in prison. It's fine that some steps have been taken, but what we're asking for is systematics, not ad hoc betting. The representative Ebbesen said from this speaker's chair that the Right Party and the Progress Party are looking at this, i.e. questions related to women in prison, which of course they don't always repeat in all contexts. I would like to stress that all experience shows that specific vulnerable groups need special attention, one needs to clarify the work to be done in that area. Then it is not satisfactory, for example. to refer to the Directorate's own-initiative work. The question we are asking is where the political pressure is, because there is a political pressure – even in this government – but there is pressure in other areas. For example, there is a strong political pressure to rent prisons in the Netherlands rather than to build in Norway, rather than to prioritise prison content in Norway, rather than to give priority to vulnerable groups such as women in Norway. As the representative Mr Ellingsen said from this chair, Mr Meld will take care of it. Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the implementation of His reasoning was then that there is something of the explanation of why one did not write so much about women. Well, it's also a priority – not to quantify women's needs, not to provide a message about the content of prison. It will be demanded of this government that they do not have the power in Norway's independent responsibility for their criminals, that they build up the content of prison, and that they did not see the connection between the supply of prison and the result of prison. Then I register that the Right Party and the Advance Party are more concerned with blaming the previous government rather than answering their own plans – or in this case the lack of plans. Let me just say that this rhetoric also makes the absence of their own power even clearer – that is, they are more occupied with what happened almost eleven years ago, rather than talking about what they have planned for the next few years. Finally, I would also like to say that the Labour Party supports the Left's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e903	It should not really be necessary to take the floor again so late in the debate, but the chairman's statement was so full of error that I can simply not leave it undisputed. Among other things, the committee chairman claims that this government prioritises the rental of prison sites in the Netherlands in front of the construction of prison sites in Norway. It's directly wrong. We're building 179 prison sites right now, which will be completed during this year, in Eidsberg and in Ullersmo. There are 179 sites built in Norway. What is the problem is that we took over the government after a government that had not built the required number of prisons. There was no overall plan for capacity needs in the future. There was no overall escalation plan for what was to be prioritised in the future. That's why there was a huge amount of work that had to be done – 4.5 billion. kr in maintenance seats in Norwegian prisons. It's a huge challenge to take over such a living. For this reason, it has been important for this government to ensure that we have the overall overview and ensure the necessary pressure to get the necessary prison places in Norway. But then we first have to solve the acute problem, and how can we solve an acute problem that's there right now? Well, then we have to find capacity elsewhere, and fortunately we have a very creative government that found a solution, along with, among other things. Christian People's Party, by renting prison places in the Netherlands to ensure the reduction of the pay queue. As a result, we have halved the reconciliation queue. This means that those who are now in pay queues come in to pay in six to seven months instead of twelve. It's action. It is to take problems seriously — in the short term and at the same time to facilitate solutions in the long term. The legacy of this government will probably be a little different, I think, than the chairman of the committee expresses in his statement. At least there is a government that takes into account that we need an upgrade of the Norwegian Criminal Service at a level that is completely different from what has been done in the past. I'm very happy that we're now solving many of the challenges in sequence, even if it takes time. The challenges of criminal justice are not just the responsibility of the previous government. There has been a down-priority of criminal care over many years. That down-priority is now over. It will be in imitation of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e912	I really wish that the Minister of Justice had as much pathos in his voice and was just as committed when he talks about women in prison, as when he talks about his own legacy. But I'm going to comment on the contributions of the Christian People's Party, because the representative Ropstad is drawing up a dilemma that is important. There is a dilemma between own units and own prisons for women. It's a real dilemma. What is the challenge is related to the principle of subsidiarity. What we see is that some women are seeking to zone in human prisons outside their own department, because they want to be closer to where the family and especially the children are. It's a dilemma. I believe that the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party and the Centre will mean that that kind of assessment will be made, but it has to be seen in a context, so that one gets a development plan that also takes on the fact that women have different needs than men, and that one cannot exchange places for women and men just by pinching, because there are actually two different units. As for the Ellings and the story, I just have to say that my head count is not very good, I get a bit of criticism for it by the nearest family, but from a quick head count let the previous government on the table at least approx. 70 separate women's seats. If we take seriously the Minister of Justice's own figures, they've delivered 18 in almost three years. So people can use the calculator and figure out the average over the number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e921	I allowed myself to say that I record that the Council of State Anundsen in his last post made himself quite tall and dark, but we are after all about the same size, and it is me that is dark. The reality is that until now, until the revised national budget, the content of what Anundsen has provided for the construction of prison capacity in Norway, the capacity he has to build here in Norway, has only our spare capacity, i.e. compensation for places that one has been required to build for other reasons, for example. that there has been a very great need for rehabilitation that one has not been able to follow up. Until the revised national budget this year, i.e. after almost three years, only a replacement capacity has been delivered and not expanded in Norway. Then he let it go two years when he tried to negotiate an agreement with the Netherlands, two years when he didn't spend money building prison sites that had finished designing several places in the country – finished designing in the ski, in Halden, in Åna and a few other places. What this shows is that it would be possible to meet the need for prison capacity in Norway in ways other than the method he has chosen, which is rather to rent in the Netherlands. The previous government was able to build up the reconciliation queue in Norway, where one managed to halve the reconciliation queue by, among other things. to secure 750 shelters in Norway. What this shows is that there are different ways of doing things than this state council has chosen to achieve good results. So once again, with the same insistence on this government, that one couldn't handle its own criminals in Norway, that one didn't build up prison capacity in Norway in accordance with the need at that time, and that one on the other hand built up the content of prison, with the significance it might have for rehabilitating.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e932	It is still good that it is not the chairman of the Justice Committee who is going to write the story of this government, because it would be direct history falsification. The eight years that the red-green government put in power were eight full dark years for criminal and prison detention in Norway. The previous government was unable to generate a new prison on its own. Prison was abducted by the Bondevik government and watered by it. The task of the previous government was to give money to something that was finished on a board to be built. Criticism against the Netherlands begins gradually to sound rather hollow. The Netherlands project is a success story. It's actually queue, it's desire among the prisoners to be allowed to zone in the Netherlands. It is clear that once additional seats have been made available in the Netherlands, there is also room for manoeuvre in Norway, with the flexibility in which the Minister of Justice was able to adapt the accommodation to the needs of the housing. There's a lot of ways to bring down a paycheck, but what this government hasn't done is to shorten the time of atonement. Those who are to zone today are at the discretion of the length of the sentence actually imposed, and that is important in terms of the prevention, prevention, effectiveness of the sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e941	Independent of altitude, darkness, pathos, etc. I would like to say that I agree with Mr Henriksen's emphasis on the importance of taking care of the special needs of women in future expansions, and it is absolutely right that they will have a completely different need than that of men. That is why I also said in my main post that it is a work that the government of course takes into account the job it is doing. But unfortunately, I can't leave the committee chairman's claims unanswered this time either. It is true that the previous government opened Odd Einar Dørum's prisons in Halden – that's right – but how many closed prisons did they start themselves, how many closed prisons were started and completed during the last government's eight years in government? It's a significantly more interesting question. The representative of Tajik is also entitled to another point, namely that there are other ways of solving the challenge of prison cows. The working party did it during its reign. Then they just cut down on the settlement time of the prisoners, and then they solved the challenge in the very short term. However, it is not appropriate for this government to review the decision of the courts on the length of judgment of the sentenced. They're going to zone the time they're going to zone, and there's not going to be any government that says they're going to get out earlier because you haven't been able to build enough prisons. The fact that we're now in a situation where we've halved the reconciliation queue, and it's less than 600 people, where we know that we have to summon those who are in line for six to eight months, shows that we have a more effective and better criminal care than what we've had. So it's also true that the 179 places we now have to build, for example. is for replacement capacity, because the previous government did not maintain the detention centres, because they did not take responsibility for maintaining the prison capacity, and because we then need to use new capacity to replace old capacity, which is 200 years old. So when we're talking about how tall and dark we're going to be in this debate, it's at least very demanding to understand that the representative Tajik from the Workers' Party has so much to put on his chest.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e952	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e955	It is a little regrettable that a debate on women in prison will end with a debate on government criticism, or that the government will not tolerate anyone talking critically about the Netherlands. It's quite symptomatic. It's sad that we have a government that's more concerned with pronouncing itself and talking bad about others, and making quite strange statements that don't really hold hold. When the Elves talk about having a dark story, the eight years that have been, I wonder where the Elves have been for the last eight years. He should talk to someone who works in the sector, and ask what happened to the eight years of Stoltenberg government. When it comes to maintenance, I just want to say that the creative bookkeeping of this government is quite formidable. It was the previous government that transferred the maintenance responsibility to State Building, and it actually costs more money than what this government put on the table for maintenance. The first thing this government did was cut in the maintenance post.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e962	There's talk of succession. Then I got the following association, which goes all the way back to 1787: then the Empress Katarina was going to visit Crimea, and the local prince traveled along a street to create an impression of a city that didn't exist. It's called pottery. This is a debate on women’s reconciliation – an important debate, a debate in which everyone has a common intention to make matters better and equivalent. So it ends up in a discussion where you try to create an impression that is directly wrong – a scene that creates an image that is glorified but that hides a truth that is shady. For this government, many unpaid bills were taken over after the previous — over 4 billion. kr in maintenance seat trailer. Of course, it affects the prisoners, and of course it affects the female prisoners. This government took over 1,200 judges in pay queues, many of them women. This government has more than halved that queue. It's for the best for women as well. This government took responsibility and rented places in the Netherlands to meet the challenges we had to face after the previous government. Then I think it is very special to hear the characteristics that come from the Workers' Party in this debate. I thought we had a common starting point for creating dignified reconciliations, which would provide the best conditions for rehabilitation and prevent relapses into new crime. In this way, the reduction in the pay queue is an important step in reducing the gap between women and men in pay queues by not having the opportunity to plan neither family life, leisure nor work life, and with the associated risk of relapse. I thought that would be the content of this debate, but then it would be a debate on history. I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e973	My good friend and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget once said that they would probably not be re-elected to the National Assembly by talking about content and settlement capacity. He probably has that right in, because there are many other areas that are probably so fierce to discuss, and the community around us is more concerned about. At the same time, you have to do it. In the light of the debate that has taken place here now, on the history description, it is correct that the previous speaker was referring to that report. St. 12 for 2014–2015 addressed the quality status of Norwegian prisons, and it is very variable, with respect to reporting, to say it carefully and neatly and neatly. So it's going to be several billion dollars, and it hasn't occurred in this election period. It's historically conditional, from several governments back. Sometimes I think – it is possible I’m naive – that you get more respect by admitting that what you’ve done is not quite good enough, but it was as far as you came. I belong to those who believe that honesty is actually the best, even when it's not pleasant and fun. Therefore, it is clear that in the case of the Netherlands, the government that is now sitting has assessed several different options. You could run a model like Bondevik II in so far as it was in with the Workers' Party, with projected parole, you could put in place direct discount schemes at the end of the reconciliation period, as was done under Stoltenberg II, or you could think of something new. Today's government has done that. One saw that there was free capacity. It was possible to create a regime that satisfies Norwegian requirements. And you can see that it's actually a success story, because prisoners in Norway who want to finish their sentence and get on with their lives can travel to the Netherlands, make a good living and come back and finish it. But the solution to some others here is that we can't have it because the queue is kind of a tool to draw attention to itself. For us, the Right Party and the Advance Party, it's about taking into account the individuals, having them implemented, letting them finish, and letting them come back and participate in society in the ordinary way. There is no one, from this pulpit, who has suggested that women should in any way feel worse than men – on the contrary. Yet, at the same time, it is a fact that men are clear in number. So it's not supposed to be weighted out of proportion. This applies to locations, but there is no exception in substance for some to be treated worse than others. This government is moving things in the right direction, as opposed to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e984	The paradox to the Workers' Party and the representative Henriksen is that maintenance responsibilities related to the prisons were transferred to Statsbyggen. Yes, was it not the maintenance responsibility when this was under the Ministry of Justice and Criminal Affairs? Was it not the responsibility of the total government in the red-green period? The fact is – and it can be read in official documents, it is stated in the notes on the criminal justice report that we were dealing with – that maintenance in prisons increased by several hundred million dollars in the red-green period. You could have done something about it, like this government is doing. So by building replacement sites on Eidsberg and Ullersmo, you can remove an accumulated maintenance seat in Oslo prison of 500 million. kr. You can shut down a department by this grip. It's not a genius bar in the sense that you haven't reinvented the powder. But this the government chose to do, unlike the previous government, which did not. The priority is different, and then you'd better get up and say it. The result was, as it was, the maintenance seat suspension accelerated and came up in the high sum of 4.5 billion. kr – before this government took hand in hand with the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e992	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1006	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1013	After a lot of debate, we're going to talk about a case where there's an overall committee that's behind an important topic. I would like to start by thanking the representatives who have promoted the proposal and once again have focused on an important topic that the Justice Committee has discussed many times during this period. It's a big commitment to violent children. There is a great deal of commitment for children's homes, and it reflects this attitude and the work of the Justice Committee. Children’s homes shall provide children and young people — and those with a developmental disability — with a good offer, but primarily to conduct interrogations, or have witnessed it. What is a bit of the point behind the proposal is that the offer should be of good quality, but should also be similar throughout the country. Therefore, it is a desire to have state guidelines, so that one knows both what a children’s home is and what kind of offers children’s homes should provide. What distinguishes the Committee in the matter is whether these national guidelines should be statutory or whether they should only be sent out and so can be designed by the Ministry. I assume that the Central Party and the Workers' Party, which have proposed legislation, can explain more about the background that they want it that way. For my part, I would rather go over to say briefly why we are behind the position that we want national guidelines for the state children's home by 1 November 2016. The reason for this is that the most important thing for us is that we have national guidelines in place. The Committee has called for it for a long time. Work has been in progress for a long time — perhaps too long — but now it is important that it can be completed and that we can get the guidelines. The important thing for us is not that it should be legal, and that we should get a separate case about this in Stortinget. I think that can actually be a little heavy – and at least unnecessary – on this kind of question. That is why we have chosen to make proposals for decisions to confirm the commitment we have had and which the setting also indicates that the Committee has stressed several times is important to get in place. I would also say two words about medical research, because it has been an important commitment and will be a natural part of the national guidelines. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have also taken decisions through the budgetary agreements. That is why we also refer to it in the vote, both that one should ensure enough social pediatricians to ensure a quality enough offer, and that children who are subjected to violence or abuse actually receive the medical examination at the children’s home. It's important, because you know that it can reveal things that the kids haven't chosen to tell about, and that can be important evidence. We also make concrete reference to what was done in the letter from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, that they called on health companies in 2015 to strengthen social pediatric competence in all child care departments. Then it was eaten in the 2016 Health Business Mission document that social pediatricians should be employed in all child services and that a medical examination should be carried out or offered to all children. It's very important, and I'm glad we got it in place. The Committee stresses – both the majority and the minority – that it is important for the government to follow closely. We expect it to be part of the national guidelines. Payment policies have been discussed. There we have been clear that there must be a similar practice. I think it's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1034	The right is pleased with the job and status that children's homes have received. Children’s homes provide follow-up and assistance to children, young people and persons with developmental disabilities who are exposed to, or have witnessed, violence or abuse. Children’s homes have a high level of professional competence and contribute to ensuring the highest possible level of provision for all vulnerable children and young people. The right is also particularly pleased that the government has shown a considerable effort in strengthening the children's houses, which have once again been further strengthened by the negotiations we have had from the government parties with our friends from the Christian People's Party and the Left here on the Stortinget. The government has also proposed changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, which deals with child questioning and particularly vulnerable persons. This means that the responsibility for the hearings is transferred from the courts to the police and that the first hearing should be taken as a general rule without any suspected intention and notification of the hearing. This gives children and especially vulnerable greater security to explain themselves without involving the potential perpetrator from the very beginning. Furthermore, it has become mandatory to consult and use children’s homes when children under the age of 16 and particularly vulnerable adults are interrogated as insulted or other evidence of sexual crimes, genital mutilation, violence in close relationships, killing or body damage. Children’s homes shall serve as a safe framework for the victims and provide better information on the matter. Children and people with mental retardation are particularly vulnerable and have a specific requirement for protection, and we believe that this has been organised by the government through the new rules on child care. These changes came as a result of the follow-up by the government to the report Questioning of particularly vulnerable persons in criminal proceedings. The changes were proposed to ensure the legal certainty of children and particularly vulnerable adults and to provide them with much better protection against violence and sexual abuse, without weakening the legal certainty of the objectives. With regard to this important issue, which is addressed by the present proposal for a representative, the Right fully agrees with the intention that common guidelines should be put in place. However, the right does not support the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre for the guidelines to be put in place in the form of laws in this round. The most important thing is that national guidelines are put in place as soon as possible, and not in the form in which they are put into place. This work is already well under way by the government, and we therefore believe that the intention of the draft representative is well respected. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, have therefore made proposals for a decision that national guidelines should be in place by 1 November 2016, which of course we expect the government to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1051	There has been a need for common legislation for the State Children's House. There shall be an equivalent offer at the various children’s homes. It may not be that the quality of the offer depends on where you live in the country. This applies to children and young people who are vulnerable, children and young people with developmental disabilities who have been exposed to or witnessed violence or abuse. There shall be a requirement for a high level of professional competence so that everyone is given the best possible opportunity. The hearing showed that organisations working with and for children agree that a common overall regulatory framework must be in place. Children's homes were established under the previous government and ear-marked funds were provided. That need is still there, and I assume that the government will provide sufficient financial space for further action. The Labour Party asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal for a common national legislation for the State Children's House. National legislation shall ensure good, comprehensive and interdisciplinary follow-up of children’s home users. The legislation must contain specific quality requirements for the conduct of medical examinations. The hearing pointed out by the Children’s Ombudsman that less than 20 p.m. children received a medical examination in 2015. This is not acceptable. Such a vulnerable group of children and young people is entitled to a better and safer offer. The Labour Party believes that a good and comprehensive offer to children’s housing users around the country is best served by legislative proposals for a common national legislation. So I'm dealing with the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1062	Then the representative Lise Wiik mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1065	A better and more valuable offer to children at risk of violence and abuse has been an important area of initiative for the government, for the Progress Party and the Right – and of course also for our supporting parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In fact, an overall judicial committee has been involved in this field – we have discussed and spent a lot of time on this topic. I'm glad. This group of children deserves attention. I believe that we have come a long way in this field over the two years that this government has been sitting on. There has been a lot of good work done. In the case of children's homes, it's extra joy to me as an east fold that we're now going to have our own children's home in Eastfold, preferably during this year. There is still some work to be done. That is why I am pleased that we are now also focusing on this with national guidelines, as the draft representative addresses, and on the work already done by the Minister of Justice. National guidelines for children’s homes are important to get in place. I guess we're totally in agreement there. This work is urgent. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Justice and Security in his letter to the Committee of 11 April this year shares the opinion that there is a centrality in the existence of guidelines for the operation of children's homes which should be anchored in a common understanding of what a children's home should be and what offers should be in place at the individual children's home. The Directorate of Police, on behalf of the Ministry, has produced two reports which provide a good basis for the preparation of national guidelines for the organisation and provision of children’s housing. I think it is important to get this in place quickly, but we also need to ensure that the guidelines, which have consequences for many, many children, are also anchored on a solid professional basis. The government has put in place an important effort to strengthen medical examinations at children’s homes. In 2015, the Ministry of Health and Health called on regional health companies to strengthen the social pediatric competence of all child care departments and to establish combined positions with this competence at children’s homes and local children’s departments. This has been an important issue for the Progress Party, and this is crucial both for the safety of children and for the purpose of research. I believe that what is put forward in this matter, with the position behind it by the majority parties, shows that we are capable of action in this area, and looks forward to putting these national guidelines into place by 1 November this year at the latest. In conclusion, I would like to extend special thanks to the Christian People's Party, who also had the case rapporteur, and who has shown a very warm and good commitment to children exposed to violence and abuse – discussed this a lot in the Justice Committee, raised the issues. I believe that this has helped to make the government's good proposals in this area even better – through the interaction between the cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1082	It is particularly important for the Centre Party that geography should not be decisive as to the supply of children in important areas. The children's house is such an important offer. The first children's houses were created under the red-green government, and we got more and more in place. That's good, and it also has to be evaluated whether we're going to create even more children's homes now. Nevertheless, it is obvious that it is important to ensure good contents in the children’s homes that exist at any given time. We also need to ensure that young people – wherever they come from in the country when they are offered at a children’s home – receive equivalent offers and follow-up. We cannot accept that there are large local differences between children's homes when it concerns the number of added, professional competence and work tasks. There is no disagreement that there are still major differences between children's homes. I am busy with a national code for children's housing to ensure a high quality of the supply to users, and it should not be geography that determines the content of the supply. The red-green government started work on creating common guidelines for the operation of children's homes and assessing the need for supervision. Despite the fact that national guidelines have been developed for a long time, they are still not in place. This means I'm alarming. It's high time there were guidelines for the children's homes that guaranteed the young a high quality supply and the same standard across the country. I mean, it's not good enough to refer to the reports and action plans of the Police Directorate. When the Directorate of Police has not started to prepare instructions for the activities of children’s homes, it is clear that setting guidelines for children’s homes is not a priority task. It is not sufficient to demonstrate that the reason for this is — and I am now quoting from the response letter from the Council of State of 11 April 2016 — ‘capacity challenges, and the need for prioritisation of organisation for the implementation and follow-up of new legislation on organised interrogation’. It is after such a wonderful quote that the ministry might have needed a course in how they can easily avoid extensive substantiation in their letters of reply, but I will leave it elegant. I also see it as positive that the Council of State agrees that children's houses should not be out of factories, but that there should also be provision for, among other things. medical examinations. That is why I believe that concrete quality requirements need to be put in place, precisely to ensure such an offer. The availability of medical examinations today depends on the extent to which a child’s home is being removed. Specific measures must be taken and mandatory guidelines given, so that geography is no longer the decisive factor in the provision of children’s homes by medical examinations. Although I see a lot of good in the work done by the Solberg administration, I would also like to stress that it has already taken too long to reach a goal, and that the requirements of the children's houses will be too undercommittal if they are given only in a national counsellor. The Council of State says he is also concerned that the guidelines are not in place. I am therefore surprised that the Council of State will not at this stage conclude whether the guidelines should be governed by law or regulation. He states that guidelines given by law or regulation will give less flexibility than a national guide, and that such guidelines will hamper development. Yet he does not justify why that is so. I think that guidelines given in law or regulation can be designed so that they are flexible and good. There is already knowledge and experience of what is good quality at children's homes. This option can be used when constructing such guidelines. The shape of these direction lines is not insignificant. Kids' best be in the center. We have to show this by making demands on the children's houses that reflect the important role children's houses have in meeting these kids. These concerns cannot be properly addressed through a national guide. If we are to ensure a fair supply throughout the country, it will be best ensured by guidelines given in law or regulation. The Council of State has stated that it is particularly busy that children's homes offer the best possible range of outsourced children and other particularly vulnerable insults and witnesses. I share this view. Directionlines must be put in place as soon as possible. They must be binding on the children's houses. They need to ensure good and equal quality of supply across the country, and they need to make specific demands for medical research. Kids in Norway are equivalent, regardless of every country they live in. The facilities at the children's houses must reflect this. It is therefore necessary to establish a truly equivalent supply at children’s homes in Norway. Only this way can we show that we're taking these seriously postponing the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1112	I admit that from time to time I have a hang to criticise the red-green government for the lack of deliveries and their weaknesses. I'm going to take the opportunity to do the opposite now. The creation of children's homes as a system is a solid saying for children and other weak groups who need to have organised interrogations. It was the beginning of something that has become very good, but that is still to be further developed, and which we recently developed with a new interrogation reform that came into force on 2 October last year. I think it is good in many ways to know that there is such a strong political back cover for the bet in children's homes and in this area. Then I agree, as the rapporteur said, that the work on the guidelines in the Police Directorate should have gone beyond what it has done, taking time into account. But, as I wrote in my letter to the Committee, the challenge has been that the same capacity should also be used to implement the new interrogation reform, which has also been very crucial to land correctly and to have implemented as quickly as possible. In addition, a major effort has been made to improve transparency and systematics in the work on these matters. There, a really good piece of work has been done by the Directorate of Police, which means that we are now better able to solve the future challenges we face. So in addition to that, we've achieved something that's very positive, but it's creating challenges, that there's now far more questioning in children's homes than it's ever done before, and the increase has been dramatic for the past two and a half years. That's very good. I am very pleased that there is such a consensus on the need for national guidelines. That work is in progress in the Police Directorate, and it has been done a good foundation work. This means that the guidelines will be put in place relatively quickly and, of course, they will be put in place within the time limit set by the Grand Duchy if the majority voting is adopted today. However, if one is in favour of the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre, my fear is that it will take much longer, because then we have to start legal work. A thorough legislative work must be done first in the Ministry, then this must be consulted, then the proposition must be written, and then you can come to the Stortinget to deal with this, and then, if necessary, the rules must be laid down in the follow-up to the Law. I will therefore note that it will take a considerable longer time, without I believe the guidelines or national leadership will be better for that reason. At the same time, I believe that there is a basis for having guidelines that are as flexible as possible. It is, of course, dependent on the design of the law and regulation, but the starting point is that changes to the law and regulation will require a very wide-ranging prior examination even when amending the law and regulation, including long consultation periods and a particularly good preparation. So with guidelines that the majority of the committees add up to, one will increase flexibility, because this is an area where you don't have the fasits. One does not see that today's model for handling the children's houses will be the model that will be there forever. We now have e.g. in the Northland police district, a pilot project with an out-of-the-box children’s home, where a department of the children’s home is established in Helgeland, so that the children’s home can travel to the children, who should have exactly the same offer as they would have had if they had traveled to Bodø. It is significantly better for the children who then get shorter travel time, and I believe the experience from that project, for example. may contribute to the need for national guidelines to be amended from the point of view of their origin. That's why I'm concerned that there should be flexibility. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the expectations of the Storting, a work has been started to clarify the relationship with medical studies. I'm afraid there's a big difference between the different children's homes. I myself brought this up with the Minister of Health and Care, and we have started it a while ago to get this in place. Medical examinations at children’s homes are essential for the delivery of the quality of the studies they are carrying out, which we expect. It is very important that you ensure the skills that you need. There has already been a series of interventions by the Minister of Health and Welfare to ensure competence. Where the inequality is greater, it is on the scale, i.e. the number of cases where medical studies are conducted, and on the funding model for medical studies. This has to be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1130	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report and just stress that it is important for the guidelines to be put in place. I see that the Council of State Horne is also sitting here – in a lot of the work to be done in the future, we hope that good signals can come through the plan of escalation to combat violence and abuse against children, coming to the harvest. As the Council of State underlines, there has been a much greater need for children's homes and for the work done. I was going to challenge the Council of State with regard to the amendment of the law that Stortinget made with the change in the planned hearing, and which entered into force in October: How has it affected three new deadlines? How has the transition to the police instead of the judge's being in and in charge of the hearings worked? Do you have any evaluation or feedback to give to the Storting on how it has worked, and may the deadlines be kept easier now than they did before?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1138	We haven't done an evaluation yet, but we have some feedback that says something about how development has been. Clearly, with the increase we have seen, the new interrogation reform has also contributed to a number of challenges. At the same time, two years ago, when we really started the bet on this, we had an average waiting time of approx. 54 days for child questioning. The last number I've been reported, for March, shows that the waiting time is between 23 and 24 days in total. But that is still not good enough, because now we are going to report on three deadlines. That is the weekly period for the most urgent cases, that is the two-week period for the ordinary cases and the three-week period for the cases which should be expected for the sake of the case. Based on that reporting regime, we're going to be tough enough to come within the scope of the law. And we're going to get a plan from the Police Directorate to make sure that this is achieved by a certain date. There's still strong focus, but it's been an improvement, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1143	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1159	It is a unanimous committee which has given its assent following the examination of the annual report on the legal compensation scheme for 2015. The judicial compensation scheme is the Stortinget’s own scheme in which individuals can apply for a state-owned outright compensation when the person concerned has been found to have suffered a particular accident and has suffered damage or disadvantage that is not covered by general or social security, insurance or compensation schemes. It's a system based on custom. The cases are decided by the Supreme Court Selection, and the civil law administration of the State is assigned to the task of secretariat of the selection. The Committee notes that the selection has held 10 meetings and decided 490 cases in 2015. Both the number of people received and the number of people treated have fallen in recent years. In 2015, however, there has been a slight increase compared to 2014, without changing developments over the last few years. It is a development that is not unnatural all the time the number of potential issues has been reduced over time. A justice allowance was granted in 52 p.m. of the cases decided in 2015. It's on the level of 2014, then 51 pst. of the cases were granted. The Committee notes that although the overall average duration of proceedings has declined slightly in recent years, it has nevertheless increased from 2014 to 2015 from 16 to 17 months due to technical problems with the processing systems. Finally, this is an important scheme. It's an individual matter of significance, and it's part of Norway's history. We therefore thank the justice selection for the work so far and stretch under the importance that all matters are dealt with as quickly as it is justified to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1184	It is an overall committee that supports the position in this important matter. The case concerns a temporary bill from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on access to information for the Committee on Child Welfare. On 13 November 2015, the King appointed a selection to investigate cases in which children have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault and serious care failure. The background to the appointment relates to the government’s action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people: a good childhood lasts its lifetime. According to Action 18 in the Action Plan, an expert group will be tasked with analysing a range of issues in which children and young people have been exposed to violence and sexual abuse. The aim is to identify failures and challenges in the public service sector’s handling of matters. Through this legislative proposal, the sample shall be given access to the necessary confidentiality-related information to enable the sample to carry out its tasks in a good manner. There is an important work to be carried out by the sample and the Committee considers it absolutely necessary that those who have information to be provided to the sample be able to pass on the information without prejudice to professional secrecy. The information may be provided to the chairman, vice-president and secretariat of the sample. The information shall be deleted when the selection has completed its work. I finally allow myself to wish the selection happiness with the important job they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1195	The government prioritises the work on violence against children and young people. Violence against children and young people is a major social problem and a tragedy for those affected. We need more knowledge to improve the system to prevent and help. In the plan A good childhood lasts its life, the Children's Violence Committee is an important measure, and the government is well in the process of working on the escalation plan that the Stortinget has decided we should work on. One of the most serious threats to a secure childhood is violence and assault. Violence is devastating for children’s physical and mental health and quality of life. Many are labeled for the rest of their lives and also labor as adults with trauma from childhood. Unfortunately, we read almost daily in the media about issues in which children and young people have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault and serious care failure. As a society, we have to constantly ask ourselves, what are we better able to do to prevent such serious issues? If the service provider has failed, it is important that we understand why it has failed. That was the background for the government to reduce the Barn Violence Committee last autumn. The Committee is under the direction of Ann-Kristin Olsen and shall identify whether, to what extent and to what extent failure has occurred in the management of these matters by the public service body. The sample shall make recommendations which may contribute to the prevention and prevention of future occurrences. Cases in which children are subject to violence and abuse will by nature contain a number of personal sensitive information which is subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. In addition, the cases will affect many services and sectors. The purpose of the law being dealt with today is to provide the sample with access to the necessary confidentiality-related information, so that the sample can carry out its tasks in a good way. Public authorities — child protection, health, school, family protection, and others — are given clear access by law to provide information related to confidentiality to the sample. The selection is also allowed to process personal data that are necessary and relevant to the work without the consent of the data concerned. In addition, the law provides for a specially adapted regulation of the obligation of professional secrecy of the sample. The selection will also be subject by law to strict confidentiality of the information received. We must protect children from violence, abuse and care failure. By having access to all relevant information, the Children’s Violence Committee gets a full picture of what has happened to the cases they are reviewing and can make accurate recommendations. It will also help us to be better equipped to protect children from violence in the future. We have to turn every rock to investigate what has gone wrong. I am pleased that the Justice Committee has dealt with the matter so quickly and unanimously has given the law support through its position. I both hope and expect that the work of the sample will contribute to new knowledge, so that we can prevent children from being subjected to violence, abuse and care failure in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1219	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1297	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1306	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1313	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III I Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment is amended as follows: Paragraph 145 is replaced by the following: Section 145 Participation in military activities in armed conflict abroad Norwegian citizen or other resident of the kingdom, who is a member of a group active in armed conflict abroad, is punished by imprisonment for 6 years. The prohibition addresses the conflicts identified by the King of State Council to be covered by the first paragraph. Any person who intends to enforce an offence as referred to in the first subparagraph and starts his or her journey to the area or performs other acts facilitating and pointing against its implementation shall be punished for trial. The trial shall be punishable less than the execution of the infringement. The second paragraph of Section 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis.» Alternatively, this proposal is voted against and the Committee's suspension III New § 145.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1515	The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1526	Then I, II, IV and the rest of III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1535	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1544	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1592	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1601	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1822	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1831	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1872	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1881	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1920	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 6, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is also asked to take account of women’s housing conditions in the event of new development, rehabilitation and in forthcoming public health reports on the situation in the criminal justice system.’ The other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1943	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that women in prison do not have to son with men, including ensuring that the next prison built in Norway is expanded with their own women’s units.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to improve women’s living conditions and to ensure that rehabilitation under restitution is based on women’s specific needs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to help women who have been subjected to abuses in the past, including to strengthen the mental health provision of women in prison.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess all the measures proposed in the report ‘Legal conditions for women and men under the responsibility of criminal services’, which was submitted to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare in January 2015, and to promote action with its assessments of the measures’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to have a separate chapter on the situation of women in prisons in the capacity notification for criminal services, notified in the spring of 2016.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e1997	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. There are proposals from Lise Wiik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal for a common national code for the State Children’s Home. The regulatory framework shall ensure the quality of the offer given to users and an equivalent and good offer at the various children’s homes. The Code must be in addition to and be based on the Regulation of 24 September 2015 No. 1098 concerning child questioning and other particularly vulnerable insults and witnesses [[organised questioning]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e2155	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e2164	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-05-12.ana.ud1491e2176	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It doesn't look like this.
