ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e104	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vokskesen, Åse Michaelsen and Irene Johansen, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Prableen Kaur, and the so-called alternate of Oslo Vegard Grossie Wennesland, are now taking their seat. From the Workers' Group, an application has been submitted to the representative Torgeir Micaelsen from 6 June onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Laila Gustavsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e141	Laila Gustavsen is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e149	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e176	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e183	The size has today for treatment setting to Report. St. 21 for 2015–2016 Wolf in Norwegian nature – Stock target for wolves and wolvesone. That's the message I want to focus most on. The Storting Message is actually a follow-up to the 2011 Robbery Agreement, as Stortinget wanted to manage the border wolf very widely with Sweden. In connection with the treatment, the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed on an agreement and on the principles for the management of wolves in Norway. The basis of the agreement is a technical basis provided in the Storing Communication which, in any case, we believe is good and very robust in terms of making a solid decision. The majority have agreed through the treatment that the new stocking target for wolves in Norway should be four–six young people, including border crossings. Of these, there shall be three geese per year. This is an actual measure and not an approximate measure or a minimum measure – but an actual measure. We believe that the objective we have set – through what has been achieved by the majority of the Committee – is within the framework of the Berne Convention and our responsibility as a nation. We also believe that this stock measure forms the basis for a sustainable wolf tribe, which has the ability to reproduce itself. Furthermore, we assume that the principles of the 2004 and 2011 predatory game agreements form the basis for the wider management of wolf in Norwegian nature. When we wanted closer cooperation with the Swedes about the border wolf in 2011, it would have been an advantage for both nations – I think – if one could agree. For many years, Norwegian and Swedish environmental protection authorities have had ongoing contact and cooperation on the management of the wolf in Scandinavia, but it has not been possible to conclude an agreement between Norway and Sweden on the distribution of responsibility for the border reviruses. We have therefore not managed to reach an agreement with the Swedish authorities on the joint management of the cross-border fleets – therefore the stock target I have already referred to. I think it's a pity, because I think it would be much easier to deal with a border wolf administration in common with the Swedes. In addition, we agree with the Swedes and find out about the management of the big predators wolf, bear, gloat and yerv. We agree that the management of wolves should take place within the framework of the international commitments we have under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. And I underline again: we believe that the consensus that has now been reached on wolf management is within those premises. Of course, as a nation, we have an independent responsibility to ensure a viable Scandinavian wolf population within Norway’s borders. We believe that, through the majority, we are now taking care of it. We will take care of wolves in Norwegian nature. Wolf – as other natural diversity – has value in itself. The wolf is protected in Norway and it is classified as critically endangered in the Norwegian Red List for species 2015. At the same time, the management of wolves should not prevent the active use of the land resources and living communities. Living with predatory game close to each other can lead to stress both for individuals and, in particular, for the grazing industry in the areas where the wolf travels. Dialogue and local involvement are important both for management and for the interests concerned, so that the challenges of some can be addressed as best as possible. And I underline: the majority are also concerned that we should be able to do it in a good way. The management of wolves shall take place within the framework of national predatory game policy, but regional management shall have the power to take decisions on killing where the stock of wolves is within the stock target. So we continue the principle that it is only central authorities that can make decisions about killing when the stock is below the stock target. The authority to take decisions concerning border relays shall be transferred from the Directorate-General for the Environment to the denominators, but before any decisions relating to border relays are taken, the control authority shall contact the Swedish authorities in order to seek agreement on the killing of border wolf. Guidelines for dialogue and cooperation with the Swedish authorities shall then be established, in line with the new stock target of four to six young people per year. In addition to the stock target, assessments of the wolf zone have also been provided in the notification. The majority agree that we do not expand – to draw the simple picture – the wolf zone northwards, while restricting it in the east. We believe that through that way of dealing with the wolf zone, we have reached a reasonable and good consensus, which does not expand the pressure in relation to today's wolf zone. We are therefore in favour of the government's proposal that "areas 2, 3 and 7" in today's wolf zone be removed. Otherwise, the wolf zone shall be continued as at present. In sum, we believe that we now have a good majority who are continuing the rapprochement, which builds up under the responsibility we have as a nation, while, through that majority, we are also trying to mitigate the conflicts that have existed and which undoubtedly have created a lot of commitment and strong feelings in connection with the matter. On this basis, I recommend the majority position of the Committee. I hope for a broad agreement to this position and a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e209	First of all, I would like to thank the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party for their constructive cooperation, where together we were able to land a broad agreement on both a new stock target for the wolf and the setting of a new zone for the wolf. For the Progress Party, it has been important to achieve a settlement where it is actually both a tightening of the number of wolves and a smaller zone than the one that has existed. Wolves, targets and zones are not an easy matter. There's an incredible amount of emotion in turn on all sides. Therefore, it is very good that the agreement we have on the table is supported by approx. 140 of 169 representatives in this Chamber. The case has a huge commitment, with small users, grazing and hunters on the one hand, and the WWF and different types of nature organisations on the other. Studies that have been conducted conclude that approximately 20 pst. the population will have more wolf in Norway, while 21 pst. will have far fewer wolves than the level we have today. There is also little doubt that there is a distinction between country and city when it comes to wolf attitudes. There is also a clear distinction between what I call the urban parties, the Green Party, SV and Left, who want far more wolf than what we have today, and the majority in this case, who want us to have something wolf, while at the same time facilitating nutrition and housing. The proposal of the Centre Party for the management of wolves would lead to the cessation of the wolf in Norwegian nature over a period of time. It is not every day that I support objections that come from Sametinget. Most of the time, I disagree very much with the objections that come from there. They have one purpose, and that is to stop all the necessary infrastructure development. In this case, however, I agree with the Asset and the objection. Tamrein and reindeer are the pillars and cultural bearer of Sami interests, and then it would be very unreasonable to extend the wolf zone in the north, which would lead to even more conflicts between the reindeer industry and the wolf management. Such an extension would not create confidence and respect in the population, but, on the contrary, increase the level of conflict. It is also the case that the majority are in favour of areas 2, 3 and 7 as described in the notification being removed from the zone. This in practice results in Glomma becoming a natural frontier south of Hedmark and in Akershus to the Øyeren. The majority of the deal goes in order for us to set a new stock level, which includes borderline virus, and the borderline virus to count by a factor of 0.5. Furthermore, in the agreement, the new stock level will be four to six young people, three of whom will be Hellenic. It is also necessary to specify that any juveniles on the outside of the zone are to be counted. For the Progress Party, it has been important to put in place the greatest possible degree of management now to be exercised by regional predators, but within the national frameworks. It is important that regional administration has the power to decide on the killing of wolves when the stock is within the stock level. This applies to the border virus, to the zone and to the outside of the zone. Central authorities and the Environment Directorate must take decisions when they are below the stock level. Wolf management is challenging, and there is no doubt that we need significant conflict mitigation measures. The parties making up the settlement fully recognise that the establishment of the wolf may have significant consequences for the individual rightholder, especially in the core areas of the viruses. Therefore, the majority proposes to ask the government to investigate possible financial arrangements for the loss of any rights or burdens within the wolf zone and to refer to the Ulvesone Committee's proposals related thereto. Furthermore, the majority proposes that the government submit a case assessing possible schemes for funds to municipalities with young people in the wolf zone. There is also no doubt that hunting is a countermeasure, and the majority point to the fact that today’s legislation also opens the door to licensing within the wolf zone. Inclusion of juveniles in border revirons will mean greater opportunities for licence hunting, and one suggests that the government considers allowing equal hunting time within and outside the zone. After the wolf was almost eradicated in the 1970s, there is today an ongoing debate about genetics, origin or origin for the many pleasures of calling the Southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. Well, if we discuss wild salmon, the genetics are crucial, not only for North Atlantic salmon or barntshavlaks – it also has a significant impact on the individual watercourse or on the individual side. Genetic origin of wolves in Norway is therefore important, all the time there are many claims that are being made. Some claim that it is privately exposed, others that there is a mixture between wolf and dog, others that it is Finnish-Russian, and yet others think it comes from the Baltic. The majority therefore propose that the government appoint a new independent report to investigate the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway. It's important that it's independent, because it's over time that feelings related to the theme of the wolf can quickly override an otherwise clear brain. With regard to the proposal from the Central Party on wolf management, I refer to the broad agreement that has been made in connection with the report. St. 21, Wolf in Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e230	Living with wolves has a long history in Norway. We have all grown up with adventures and myths associated with the gray leg and the large ugly wolf, and it is assumed that it followed the ice edge, which was then a little more clearly defined, for approx. 10,000 years ago together with people and wild purgatory. From the middle of the 1800s, shot premiums were introduced which, together with little deer game, led to the wolf’s disappearance from Norwegian nature. And then, from the 1970s, when the elk and deer tribes came up strong, the wolf found back, shortly after it was saved. Few policy areas are likely to give rise to more commitment and higher temperature than wolf and predator policies. The debate on this big message is not an exception in this way. The Committee received clear feedback during its hearing on the matter from all sides, and the range was from free immigration to closed borders – to use a language theme drawn from another ongoing debate. In total, the Committee has received around 230 recordings, letters and signature campaigns in our discussion. It may well be characterised as unusual that the Economic and Social Committee has not only given an opinion on the matter but has also held a separate hearing on a matter for consideration in another committee, but I believe that subsequent articles will explain that. When the first robberies deal was concluded in 2004, it was not without debate and high temperature, and in the 2011 rapprochement negotiations were concluded by the parliamentary leaders, giving a hint of how difficult this issue was and is. The 2011 agreement did not conclude around the problems of zones and populations, but added to an agreement with Sweden related to the management of wolves in southern Scandinavia. It was foreseen that border revir should be counted by a factor of 0.5 and that the agreement with Sweden should be in place by 2013. For various reasons it has not been possible to reach an agreement, and therefore the case is being raised to Stortinget again, as the agreement from 2011 stated. The right starting point has been that the Stortinget would take the lead in a new settlement in the same way as was done in 2011, but several parties wanted a new large-scale notification as a basis for Stortinget’s treatment. There have been good and constructive negotiations in an attempt to achieve the broadest possible consensus in this matter, and I will commend both the case rapporteur and all parties for making an honest effort, but unfortunately it turned out that the distance was too large in the end. Behind the majority position here today is the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which represents 142 of the 169 representatives of the Stortinget. It must be possible to call it not wide, so at least heavy political consensus, even though four parties chose to stand outside in the end. So over to the individual parts of the consensus, and I'm going to start with the wolf zone itself. In 2004, drug treatment led to the limits we have had up to today. In the message we are discussing today, the government recommends keeping the current zone with some changes: the areas west of Glomma are taken out, and the zone is extended northwards. There is no doubt that there are good professional reasons for an expansion northward, but it makes the impression when the Sameting is so clearly warning against this, and the majority has chosen to listen to the Sameting with more people in this case. Today's zone west of Glomma in Akershus and Hedmark is relatively narrow and is located near areas with grazing interests. It is difficult to imagine the creation of wolves there, and therefore it makes sense to take these areas out. It can be argued that today's zone is being continued with areas that are more real for the establishment of breeding wolves. So I would like to make a few comments about the stock target of four to six young people who are in agreement between the four parties. The government recommended a model of five-eight family groups, including three whole-Norwegian young people. Border wolves shall then count by a factor of 0,5, and juveniles outside the wolf zone shall be counted in the stock target. This model continues well along the way in the proposal, but we have chosen to use the concept of ‘juggles’ or ‘coal’ throughout the target set. A family group is defined as three combined wolves, one of which marks revir. In other words, a family doesn't need to include a puppy coal, and I think it can be difficult to communicate two different definitions within the same population goal. The proposal involves some tightening of the administration, but the objective of three whole-Norwegian juveniles is continued as today, ensuring that Norway takes part in the responsibility for the southern Scandinavian tribe. For the right, it has been important to include the border wolf in the stock target. For us living in border areas, it has been unsustainable that wolves actually located in Norway should not be counted. We're doing something about this right now. Another source of conflict has been the revir that is more than 50 pst. outside the wolf zone, not to be counted in the stock target. This unnecessary count of square metres is now removed, so that all Norwegian juveniles are included. This does not mean opening up the establishment of wolf flocks outside the zone but counting on the adoption of decisions by predators. If we take into account the fresh report «Surveillance monitoring of the wolf in winter 2015–2016», the various objectives can be well illustrated. There are now six geese registered within the zone, one that is more than 50 pst. outside the zone, and four young people in border areas towards Sweden. No family groups without young people are registered, only reviral couples, based on what I can understand. Today's administration means that we are three young people above the target. With the government's proposal, it would mean that we would be one-four young people above the target, while the majority's proposal means that we are three-six young people above the target. But all the models mean that the denominators for the first time in history can open up for hunting within the zone. This, I think, is good, and I think it can have a mitigation effect on those who live within the wolf zone. So finally some comments on other decisions that lie in the consensus. The majority state that the management of wolves is to be carried out under the Nature Diversity Act, the Berne Convention and earlier settlements. Furthermore, it is recognised that the establishment of the wolf may have significant consequences for the individual rightholder, especially in the core areas of the reefs. We therefore ask the government to investigate possible financial arrangements for the loss of rights and burdens, while at the same time assessing possible arrangements for funds for municipalities with young people. Furthermore, the government shall consider allowing equal hunting time within and outside the zone, another theme that has been much debated around. I've always been of the opinion that management, not least as far as predators are concerned, should be knowledge-based. When the level of conflict is high, and many express distrust of the authorities, we must base our administration on the most commonly agreed knowledge on which there should be a minimum of doubt. We already have among the best knowledge systems in the world, and few species are better documented and monitored than the Norwegian and Swedish wolves. When we saw in the hearing feedback from some research environments that cast doubt on the genetic origin of today's wolf tribe, I feel far on the way that the Storting has two alternatives. Either we take the disagreement seriously among the researchers and ask for a new assessment, or we take a position on one of the sides. And as long as I'm not an expert myself in this field, which I think I share with most people here in the hall, it makes sense to ask the government to order a new independent investigation. In this way, the knowledge base can become even better and hopefully less the level of conflict. For most parties predatory policies are a difficult area. It is important for the right to respect the rights of landowners and to continue the use of landowners in the country. On the other hand, we have an obligation to leave nature to the next generation with a diversity of species that also includes predators. Both parts are well anchored in the values of Right and our program, and I feel that we have achieved a good balance between the different aspects of the consensus we have with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e264	The staging message on stock targets and wolf zones is one of the most demanding issues we deal with in this spring session, and I am glad that we got a deal between the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. Robbery policy, and in particular wolf policy, tends to arouse strong emotions from all sides. That's why I'm pleased with this agreement, because there are four parties that have come to a good settlement, which did not come out because we gave in to the pressure from the environmental organisations, not because they had given in to the pressure from the agricultural organisations, but because – and now I'm just talking for the Christian People's Party – we have put emphasis on finding a balance. We have stated in our programme that Norway should take its share of the responsibility for viable populations of the four major predators. We've also programmed that we should have a new stocking target for wolves that also include the border wolves. We have delivered on our program and are pleased with the majority, who have found a solution together. We believe that the management of wolves should take place within the framework of international commitments under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. The wolf is at peace in Norway. It is few in number and it is classified as critically endangered in the Norwegian Red List for species 2015. The wolf was in several decades almost gone from Norwegian nature, and it says itself that when it actually came back and managed to build up again, it was a result of wild policies from the majority of the Stortinget. The wolf does not ask Stortingen where to turn. But we in the Christian People's Party have always thought that when we are going to have wolves in Norway, it must be in the area towards the Swedish border because it is clear that the Norwegian population must be seen in connection with the Swedish. We are talking about taking our share of responsibility – not about a large wolf population in Norway. Then you would have talked about a much larger population, for example. in order to protect against genetic degradation or inbreeding in good Norwegian. In the days following the conciliation, I was probably not the only one who got critical and partly very critical feedback from both sides. I will admit that on such days it is easy to identify with Peer Gynt's heart sugar to Mother Aase when he was shut up for both fighting and being beaten up. He said, "If I hammer or hammer, as full as I am, it will be jammed." But if it can be unpleasant, it is our duty as politicians to come up with solutions that are both responsible and balanced. And to all intents and purposes: I acknowledge that the environmental organisations and agricultural organisations use strong rhetoric in the fight for what they think is right. But it's our job to balance this, and then we're going to tolerate a little bit of a verbal bank. We recognise that living with predatory game close to each other can put a strain on individuals in the community. We recognize that it is not easy to operate sheep on a field leg in an area of wolf, and we recognize that the huntable moose trunk will be smaller when there are both four-legged and two-legged hunters about the prey. But predators also have their place in Norwegian nature. They play a significant role in the interaction and have done it over thousands of years. We believe that the greatest possible degree of regional governance in the framework of a national predatory policy is an important principle. The majority therefore believe that regional government should have the power to take decisions on killings when the wolf population is within the stock target and we will continue the principle that only central authorities can take decisions on killings when the stock is below the stock target. The majority support the proposal that the powers to take decisions relating to cross-border viruses be transferred from the Environment Directorate to the denominators and that this should be done as soon as possible. As mentioned above, the stocking target for wolves in Norway shall be four to six juveniles per year, three of which shall be helenian juveniles. Young people outside the wolf zone should also be counted. The juveniles of border revir shall be counted by a factor of 0,5. This means that once the stock target has been reached, wolves may be shot, as do individuals of other game in Norway. It's about managing a stock, and it's in itself anti-conflict that those who have the challenges with wolves actually see that we're serious about taking our share of responsibility, but not anymore. We are pleased that the Stortinget, through the decisions taken here today, is asking the government to investigate possible financial arrangements for the loss of any rights or burdens within the wolf zone, and we are asking the government to present a case assessing possible arrangements for funding to the municipalities with young people in the wolf zone. Let me also make it clear that we have a great sense for the minority to realize that as a nation, we need to work on finding ways to live with our predators. No responsible bulk will eradicate species from the Norwegian fauna. As long as predators are found in our forests, livestock will be taken out on the field. Measures to prevent such losses can be introduced in some places. In other cases, it may be more appropriate to convert the holding into other types of farming or into other livestock. It is the big community that has to take the cost – not the individual farmer. There's also part of the responsibility the majority behind this deal has to take over. We're ready for that. With this Christian People's Party recommends setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e287	The centre party cannot vote in favour of what is adopted here today. We have our own proposals. What is being adopted today is not going to make Norwegian wolf policy clearer. It will not make Norwegian wolf policy less conflictable. The majority in this room have actually oversold a deal that gives environmental management great powers, but that will lead to an equal number of conflicts, and that actually obscures some of the existing conflicts we have. The majority writes in their comments that: ‘the management of the wolf must not prevent the active use of the land resources and living communities’. But that's exactly what's happening today, and the majority really don't take any significant action to improve that situation. The cornerstone of dialogue, local involvement and private property is in reality a hollow tribute. None of the proposals solve any of the fundamental problems posed by today's wolf policy. The centre will show that there has been a strong increase in the wolf population, almost an explosive growth, from 30 to 35 wolves in Norway to over 90. There could be dramatic consequences for some areas of Norway of this policy. The reason for this is, among other things: that it has never been clarified in the predatory game agreement. Negotiations with Sweden have collapsed, and since then nothing has been done — no action, no preparation for meeting a development with such a strong increase in wolf population. It is also a problem for wolves that stock regulation has not worked. Of a licence quota of 17 animals, 6 animals were taken out. As a result, at least a more effective licence hunt should be opened and the wolf zone must also be hunted. A good measure to trap several wolves is to open up to use loose, on a driven neck dog. Today’s predatory game management is based on, and it will also in the years to come, a geographical differentiation. But among the reasons that the level of conflict is high is that a lot of wolves do damage outside the predatory zone, and also reportedly those who live in the wolf zone, will have to bear a very heavy burden on behalf of the entire community. The Government proposed two alternative stock targets in the wolf notification, either to continue the current stock targets of three juveniles and not to include the border reviruses, or to introduce a stock target of five to eight family groups, with a cut-off factor of 0,5. In the agreement, it was agreed that one should have four to six young people, where three should be whole Norwegian. In the view of the Centre Party, this type of intermittent stock target is conflict-provoking and a problem in itself. It is also contrary to the intention of the predatory game likeness we've been given in the past. The type of intermittent stock targets has never been set before, and there will be no dampening of the conflict in the predatory game management. On the contrary, it will give increased powers to the environmental management, and I think it will also lead to increased frustration outside those affected. In a way, it is illustrated by the Right Spokesman here today, which indicates that we are above the stock target today. Yeah, how much are we really above the stock goal? Are we three over, or are we six over? I think that is a good question, and that question was not answered in that article. Everyone agrees that predatory game management should be knowledge-based. It is positive that the majority parties agree that a new independent study of the genetic origin of wolves in Norway should be carried out. I think it's about time. It is also important to recognise that one of the major problems with the management of wild game today is the lack of trust between those living in local communities with wolves and environmental management. The over-management that many people feel about predatory game problems in general, but especially in wolf policy, is important, and it is important to recognise it. But today's settlements are not going to dampen the conflicts we've seen in that context. That is why I believe it is also important to recognise more and new professional environments than those currently existing in this area and to ensure that there is a greater degree of understanding between management and local populations. I would also like to mention a particular issue that concerns the central part of the setting. The first is the case where one has seen that there have been wolves within predatory fences. It's very devastating for those who experience it, and it's necessary that this introduce a standing fallow permit. The second is the consideration of wild rein, which is undoubtedly a species of responsibility for Norway under the Berne Convention, and the need to investigate the effects on the wild reindeer. With that, I will be allowed to address the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e316	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e319	First of all, I would like to say that I think the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy today are a step backwards in Norwegian wolf management, not just because that majority is in favour of, is a real reduction in wolf population, but also because we are abandoning the broad consensus we have had in predatory policy for many years. We have predatory settlements from 2004 and 2011 – in 2011 even a settlement that covered all batches. Now we're back to having a majority running through their view of reducing the wolf population in Norway. The representative, Fredriksen, said it was a matter of real tightening. On behalf of the Left, I must say that I am disappointed, because this time we have also negotiated – both the parties that want and believe there is room for more wolves in Norway, and those who want a tightening – the balance point we could have, where we continue the stock target, but with changes in the management. We could keep the broad consensus we've had for over ten years at Stortinget. We could have had a knowledge-based administration that a solid majority on the Biggest could stand behind – not only a majority in the number of representatives but also a breadth in view. We're now going away from that when the majority does what they do, and not follow up the consensus we negotiated. Because it's strange: we negotiate an agreement, we negotiate a balance point, and then it turns out that in both the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, it didn't matter what we negotiated about. When you go back to the groups, it's stretching to tighten up, to stick to the cancers that want fewer wolves in Norway, which is the most important. I think it's a shame, and I think it's going to lead to more conflict, not less conflict. There will be conflict locally, and it is also to invite to a long-term political conflict in the Great Britain in the years to come. Wolf belongs in Norwegian nature. It was saved in 1973, it is still critically threatened by extinction and is on the Norwegian Red List of Species. Any decline in stock targets or wolf zones will increase the risk of the destruction of wolves from Norwegian nature. It is essential that we follow the Berne Convention, and we must follow the Nature Diversity Act. I want to quote the Council of State, which is very clear that there is no basis for lowering today's level of ambition for the wolf, in the message that has been presented, a wolf message that, in my opinion, gives a lot of knowledge and has a very high quality. It is that any reduction in the population in Norway, and the proposal from the majority will lead to a reduction in the population, that we are dangerously approaching the limit of wolves that we must have in order to meet the commitments we have under the Berne Convention. On the left, together with the SV and the Greens, we want to go on about the number of wolves we have today, that is. increasing the population target of eight–twelve family groups — we follow one of the recommendations in the Communication — and it includes six health-care young people in Norway. That is to say, we will be about the level that is at present, and we will follow up on the commitment we have with Sweden to care for the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. If we compare with Sweden, we depend on having a certain migration from the Finnish-Russian tribe to care for the genetic diversity needed in the southern Scandinavian tribe. In Sweden, they have considered that they must have at least 300 wolves in order to preserve genetic diversity, but they assume that Norway does not tighten its wolf policy, as the majority do today, and that in Sweden it may be necessary to increase to compensate for the majority of the population now doing. In Sweden, there are about 27 young people, so in Norway, we have a target of 3. When it comes to the wolf zone, it's amazing that we from the minority want to follow the government's proposal, a proposal I think is reasonable based on the experience we have with the wolfesone, a wolfesone that is small in principle – it's about 5.5 pst. of the area of Norway. The professional recommendation is clear to the sun: that we take out three areas – what goes west of Glomma, a small area in the far north – but that then we extend the wolf zone northwards to an area where there are regular establishments of wolfevir, it has been for many years. It is an area that has good access to both deer and elk, and where there are little conflicts with tamrein, as the report clearly shows. Even if you expand northwards, you will get a buffer zone for the domestic areas of the Fifth, which is 5 km larger – the distance is greater than it is today. Looking at the wolf zone, there is obviously a greater pressure on agriculture within the wolf zone, and there must be compensatory measures, and one must have fences – one must have all that is needed, but outside the wolf zone there are few wolf injuries that occur within the wolf zone. The damage done outside is primarily from striped animals, which in Norway will be striped animals from Sweden and also striped animals from the frontier flocks. The overlap is small. I think it's amazing that the majority doesn't follow the professional recommendation that the government itself is behind, that you do a displacement of the wolf zone to get the less conflicty and more adapted to the real situation of the wolf. Instead you choose the opposite, the further tightening of the zone, so that it gets even smaller in the years ahead. So to genetics, it's unfortunate that there are almost conspiracy theories about the wolf's genetic origin that are uncritically used in an attempt to undermine a responsible wolf administration in Norway. If there is something that has really been explored in Norwegian nature management, it is the Norwegian wolf tribe. The message also shows well. You refer back to the arm you have, both how large the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe has been in times past, and how the wolf has migrated, with the first young in 1983, on which the wolf tribe we have today is built, and of course with a regular, or sporadic, immigration of new wolves from the Finnish-Russian wolf tribes, which we depend for years to keep the genetic diversity we need for the wolf tribe. I think it's almost undermining the wolf administration we have, the professional weight of the Norwegian wolf administration, when the majority rebuilds under the conspiracy theory and orders another new report on the genetic basis of the Norwegian wolf tribe. If there's one thing we should support, it's the professionalism and quality of the Norwegian wolf administration, and then we'll have to take the disagreements we have, based on what they present in public space, but not undermine the very basis. By doing just that, I believe that what the majority is doing now, instead of – even if it is conflicty – keeping the calm we have had about both Norwegian predatory animal management and wolf management through broad settlements in the Stortinget, is inviting us to continue the conflict, both locally and on the Stortinget. With that, I take up the suggestions on the left-hand side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e345	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e348	If you're so lucky to go on a walk in the woods and come to a water and see a wolf looking at you, and you look at it, you've experienced the blessing of nature. We don't have any species to lose, but too many people in here don't care about the wolf. It is even a party that will eradicate the wolf in Norwegian nature, allegedly because it is not Norwegian enough. Unfortunately, the majority here in the hall is playing on this very track. I cannot vote in favour of what is adopted here today, because I believe that it increases the risk of weakening an already critically threatened species in Norwegian nature. I would like to see some of the other people sitting here in the main hall today, suggest that we settle down and be satisfied with three young people in any of the other species that are critically threatened – which are significantly threatened. If we, for example, would the representatives think it was a good idea, and that we had taken care of the species in a sufficiently good way? What about three coal lomvi a year, or three young rock reefs – a success? No, no one would like any other species here in Norway. It puts it all in perspective, so that everyone can see how absurd that notion and the conclusions we are making today are. Fortunately, no one here claims that what is adopted here today leads to a viable wolf population in Norway. I believe that the broad rounds we had in front of us, with good hearings and even wider seminars arranged by a wide-ranging nature conservation group here at Stortinget, showed it very clearly. It shows that the Norwegian-Swedish wolf strain is not viable without the supply of fresh blood from outside at frequent intervals. But the very special thing in this case is that the majority claims that Norway takes a reasonable share of the responsibility for the Norwegian-Swedish wolf tribe with what is adopted here today. With all due respect – only Nordics who believe they are world champions in the environment can believe. At least they have not spoken to the Swedes, who are actually responsible for the Norwegian-Swedish wolf tribe. We in SV and we in the wolf opposition have thought that we should have at least six heroic juveniles, and we should have eight–twelve family groups. It would approach taking responsibility, a reasonable Norwegian responsibility. This would mean that we would approach about a third of the responsibility for the wolf tribe, and that would have meant that we would have said that today's level of wolf in Norwegian nature would be taken care of further in the future. Instead, the government parties have joined forces with the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party and have joined forces for a drastic fall of wolf in Norwegian nature. I think the majority are counting on what this will lead to insurrection, but that's what we get back to. So we're introducing local government to a much greater extent than before in the case of wolves. I want to ask the Council of State what he thinks this will lead to. In the discussions we have had in connection with the setting, there is no doubt that introducing a voltage as you do now, makes people like me, who also hear and have experience in hearing about what the local government could lead to, and hear the debates that are going on in the wild game subjects, concerned that this is going to lead to putting themselves in the lower voltage that is now being adopted, and is going to be right there. But is that the intention of the Council of State? Now, when you make a voltage, will he be satisfied that everyone is in the lower part of the voltage over time, or does he think we should be in the middle of or in the upper part of the voltage? And how will the administration – he will be in dialogue with the Environment Directorate – be linked to just this? There is no doubt that the Council of State itself has previously directly intervened in the handling of this matter by the Environment Directorate. There will also be a need for a clear and clear political signal from the executive to the Environment Directorate on how to interpret such a tension. I expect the Council of State to explain it in its statement. The most special thing is the fact that the bulk of the population now seems to be doing well at a level of youth that is doubtful about being in line with our international commitments. I would commend the Council of State for being exemplaryly clear and say that the majority of the population now decides, it is doubtful whether it is in line with our international commitments under the Berne Convention. I also notice that the draft by the government would be in line with the Berne Convention, but that a weakening of that level would be questionable if it was in line with the Berne Convention. I think the majority of people today are shying off Norway when they choose to vote in favour and accept that it is doubtful whether we relate to the international commitments we have made. I think that Norway, a rich country with a good administrative culture, should be clear that we must at least meet our international obligations. To the question of the wolf zone, it's like the wolf settles down where there's a good relationship to settle down. I think the government did a good job of going through the material and the experiences you had, when they suggested expanding the area of the wolf zone northwards. But I noticed at the same time that in the consultation process we heard concerns that this could go beyond tamrein in the southern Sami areas. We in the wolf opposition clearly stress that it is not a question of saying yes to wolves in the domestic areas, but we note the concern that the wolf would be allowed to get closer – even though it is already there to a large extent today – and we therefore informed the government in our comments and our proposals that when we said yes to extending the wolf zone in line with what the government proposed, we also thought that the government should consider whether to lower the threshold in order to take out wolves that could pose a threat to domestic animals, because there is a need to ensure that domestic farming is maintained. I think we have international commitments to that, and I think it's right anyway. Initially, we want from SV's side to go for an extension of the wolf zone both northwards, as I have mentioned, westwards and southwards. We think it's too small, it should be bigger. We also wanted a large part of Nordmark to be in, but we have chosen to agree on what was the government's proposal, and I hope the Council of State notices that there are at least some who stand up for the government's proposal, when the government parties do not do it themselves. I believe that the policies of the majority of the population will lead to more conflict. A new discussion about the genetics is being raised, although I believe this is well established and well discussed in the message. On the part of the majority, there are several who argue for a hunting period in which you risk shooting into flocks, so that the wolf will be less able to take large game and more likely to go to sheep. It's not, in my opinion, sufficiently done the trials with the loss schemes that I think are necessary, where we could have tried risk-based grants to much greater extent to ensure that incentives to take care of animals on pasture instead of just getting compensation when the losses are there. I also believe that we should give much more support to municipalities where you have wolfevir. We are putting considerable money into this in our draft revised budget, because we believe that it could help to mitigate conflicts and prevent wolf losses. I react that it is manufactured as if we chose to stand outside of what could have been a predatory settlement. I sat down myself and agreed to negotiate for quite a long time, just as Ola Elvestuen described, but I felt that there were the majority parties here who chose to leave a settlement and instead go for a contraction that I believe is crazy, and that I am sorry that the majority of people do. We thought that what was worse than today's situation and worse than the government's proposal was not right, and we really believe that we were in the wolf opposition that was thrown out. I've never seen wolves in reality, and with this majority, the chances of me doing it are falling. I feel that as a loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e381	The wolf has always been part of Norwegian nature, it has always been part of Norwegian culture. It's full of wolf names all around our country, and Norway is going to continue to have wolves. The only solution available in Norwegian wolf policy is that soon we are friends of the fact that wolf is part of this country, and find solutions based on it, not trying to keep that species as close to extinction as possible. Norwegian nature would not have been what it is without a wolf. The one who has seen a swallowbardrein, who goes under the nickname pig with horns, has seen a clean as it becomes without a wolf, and that also applies to the vast majority of Norwegian lowland nature. This is the wolf's long-term evolutionary and ecological role in Norwegian nature, and it's as embedded as that species is in our nature. We have just adopted a message of natural diversity that underlines in a lot of ways and in an increasingly professional way suggests that we should strengthen the conservation of Norwegian nature. We are going to make Norwegian nature more robust for future climate change, and we are going to restore Norwegian nature that is destroyed – that is very good. But the bulk of the population today decides to make the opposite happen in all areas of the region of Norwegian nature called wolf. This is a species that, as everyone knows, the government's own professional body, the Art Database, characterizes as critically threatened. If there is any reason to have a species database, if there is any reason to use the term ‘knowledge-based’ as often as both previous governments and this government does, you have to try to open your ears when the professional body tells us that such a species is at the brink of extinction within the Norwegian administration. We are also facing a majority who leave what was initially a professionally well-founded communication with at least acceptable proposals based on good professional competence. The Green Party recognises just as much as all other parties the conflict that exists between wolves and other predators and agriculture. Then we remind ourselves that the conflict between wolf and agriculture is less than the conflict between agriculture and some other predatory species. The problem is only a fraction, but the level of conflict is many, many times as high, and it is very much due to the level of conflict maintained by the Grand Duchy's treatment of this particular conflict. The Greens do not support a large wolf population in a country of over 400,000 km2. What we're proposing, along with the Left and the SV, is an alternative that is carefully investigated in the government's own big message, which is much less ambitious than our primary position, but we suggest it because we wanted to contribute to that consensus, the reconciliation that the current majority expressed that they wanted, but acted in a way that made it absolutely impossible to engage in anything reconciliation, just because the majority withdrew from their own message. It's relatively eye-catching that something like that is happening, but there's not much to do with it right now. The Green Party has also called for a much more systematic effort to solve the basic problem that arises when grazing animals are released into a wild environment where predators and many other hazards exist, as elsewhere known to take much more sheep lives than the wolf does. Norway can carry out a heavy systematic, professional effort to solve these problems, but this too says the majority of the population refuses to do so, incredibly enough. The Green Party wants to use society's resources to minimise the problems that arise when the off-shore industry encounters nature. But those problems are real, they exist, and it is not a long-term solution either for Norwegian out-of-lands industry, for Norwegian agriculture or for some other industries to base their use of Norwegian nature on clearing up what is there that you don't like. I would like to warn you most strongly against Norwegian agriculture going on a line that has it as a long-term strategy. It's not going to serve any good purpose. We've been through a strange political process. The centre party adopts an attitude towards the part of Norwegian nature called wolf, which is internationally exceptional, and the centre party thus turns to the very worst friend of agriculture. Fortunately, many Norwegian farmers realize that it is not by following an eradication line against an important species in Norwegian nature that agriculture builds the alliances with the rest of society that are crucial to that industry. Unfortunately, however, for Norwegian agriculture, the majority of Stortinget has moved on to a line that will exacerbate this problem. The progressing party, which supported this big message, follows up on attacking the professional basis of the message based on what I – with the danger of being knocked down by the president – will characterize as biological quack salvery. It is quite strange that this should at all be part of a so-called professionally based discussion. The working party performs to undermine what was initially a good part of the Right's position on the wolf management, by opposing the expansion of the wolf area in the north, and the Right's response is to embark on its own useful position and follow the Workers' Party and the Advance Party into the professional fog. I'm also pretty convinced – and it's not often I get involved in that field – that the Lord of Spring is deeply dissatisfied with what should be the creation party here on the Stortinget, which, rather than defending the creation, is helping to undermine it. It is interesting to note that if the Right Party and the Workers' Party had had had their wish to be a member of the European Union, the decision taken today on the Norwegian wolf would have been impossible. It is also quite certain that if Norway had been able to enter into dialogue with Sweden on wolf management, the answer to that dialogue would not be the answer that Stortinget is giving today. We wouldn't be able to take such a microscopic part of the so-called responsibility for the southern Scandinavian wolf population that this settlement implies. The majority of the population today are exacerbating the wolf conflict. The vast majority of the Norwegian people who want wolves in Norwegian nature are going to become sintered, and by pressing the break button instead of trying to solve the problem, the majority of the population are also doing agriculture and the outlying industries a bear service. The wolf's here. The wolf is going to stay here, and we have to get used to it. When a new report on the genetic basis of the wolf population in Scandinavia comes, the majority of the population will again have to decide whether to deal with genetic conspiracy theories or the professional basis that a broad professional environment in Norway provides them. It's going to be interesting. The majority will have to decide how long Norwegian wolf management will be an international derogation area that makes Norway a remarkable place in international predator management, and that makes Norway a country that has no credibility at all when we have to comment on the management of tigers, lions, leopards, crocodiles and any other kind of animal that we think is nice to exist but creates problems in other countries and that other countries deal with in a much more useful way than Norway does. I look forward to the next round of the wolf fight at Stortinget. Sooner or later, the arrow is going to have to point the other way of what it's doing now, and we're just getting rusty to that rematch. I support the suggestions that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e419	Everyone in this room knows that robbery management is very demanding. And we all know that the wolf is probably the single species in Norwegian nature that is linked to the greatest conflicts. The wolf is peaceful in Norway, and it is critically threatened here in the country. The risk of its extinction in Norway is extremely high, although the population is significant in some other countries. That is a starting point for all the debate on the wolf. From this point of view, we are going to pursue a predatory policy within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the 2004 and 2011 The government believes it is important to operate a predatory game management that has the most accepted in the population. The big deal has decided that we should have a two-fold objective in predatory game policy. Here we need to balance the consideration of a peaceful and critically threatened species on the one hand and industrial interests and other local interests on the other. The government wants us to have wolf in Norwegian nature. I record that a broad majority in Stortinget shares this view. The same majority emphasises that wolves – in the same way as other natural diversity – have a value in themselves. I think that's a pleasure. At the same time, it is equally undisputed that wolves and other predators cause sheep and domestic animals to be killed and injured on pasture. It is also a fact that outdoor industries, such as the rental of hunting rights, are affected by the presence of wolves and other predators, and that some people feel fear of the wolf. At the same time, it is a fact that the development of the grazing industry is affected by much more conditions than wolves and other predatory game. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the establishment of the wolf zone has had a strong impact on individuals, families, communities and traditional ways of life. The main challenge is therefore to find a good balance, where we take care of wolves in Norwegian nature and at the same time create good framework conditions and predictability for grazing and for those living in areas with wolves. The size has chosen to solve this by having a clear zone management in the form of a separate wolf zone. The government provided a very broad and solid basis on the subject of wolf in Norwegian nature. We have proposed in the Communication that the stock target for wolves be either continued as today, or that a new stock target be set that also includes wolves in border areas with Sweden. Both proposals will lead more or less to the continuation of the population at about the same level as today. Furthermore, the government has proposed to continue the principle of zone management and a nationally determined wolf zone, but with a minor adjustment to the current zone, which would mean a reduction, compared to the current zone, of 0,5 pst. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has chosen a different balance point. This means, for the purposes of the stock target, that Norway’s level of ambition for wolves is somewhat reduced. As regards the wolf zone, the proposal of the majority of the Committee would mean that the wolf zone would be about 8 pst. less than today's zone. The wild game agreement says that the populations of wild game are to be kept as close as possible to the required stock targets. In the case of wolves, an interval target is now introduced. This means that the administration will have an increased room for action, including: with regard to the setting of annual allowances for the purpose of licence hunting. It is also important that, in order to cooperate with the Swedish authorities on a common wolf population, flexibility should be added to the management of border revirons. I note that the majority of the committee, in line with the government's proposal, supports transferring the power to manage wolves in border areas from the Environment Directorate to the predators. This means that if the population is on or above the target population, all the wolf-breeding authority now lies with the predators. It involves a simpler and more holistic management of wolves within the wolf zone. There has been a development of an understanding that there is no possibility of allowing the fall in the wolf's licence within the wolf zone. This is not true. Both under current legislation and in the future, it will be possible to allow for licensing within the wolf zone, provided that killing does not threaten the survival of the stock and that there is no other satisfactory solution. Furthermore, there has to be a potential for damage and it has to be assumed that, after a licence has been agreed, the stock target will also be reached next year. In line with the wishes of the majority of the Committee, we will assess whether there is a basis for an equal licensing period within and outside the wolf zone. Some have called for the introduction of a breeding permit without a prior application. In practice, this means opening up the free felling of wolves outside the wolf zone during the grazing season. That is not the case, nor will it be in line with our international commitments. I'm glad that the majority of the committee is of the same opinion. I also record the fact that the majority of the committee gives several assignments to the government. It is important to have knowledge-based management, and the government should follow up these tasks. The Ministry of Climate and Environment will follow the changes adopted in the stock target and zone setting so that they can enter into force quickly. We also want to inform the entire management of the predatory game about the changes and the consequences they have for the management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e450	I have received the following input: my use and many others are now empty for buffing. It is the price that individual users have to pay for the big society’s desire for predators. Around 1,000 use has been abandoned due to current policies, and Norway has taken responsibility for the wolf they had not ordered. What will the Council of State answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e457	There's no doubt, as I was also involved in my post, that our wolf policy balances between two important considerations. One is to take into account the wolf population, and the other is to take into account the grazing industry. The two-part objective we have is that where the wolf is located, and especially within the wolf zone, it has a significant impact on individuals, families and communities and in traditional ways of living and living. This is a demanding dilemma, there's no doubt about it. There are international commitments we have, and that is national political follow-up now again with a broad majority in the United Kingdom that is behind us having wolves in Norway. Then we've chosen to do it that way that we have zone management, and then it's clear that it has strong consequences, but it's part of the line that a broad majority of the Stortinge has been behind for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e462	The previous replicator illustrates a little of the frustration that many people feel, and also the lack of follow-up to the concern that people have about predatory wildlife policy, especially the wolf policy, and the burden they take. But there's a Roman number in this position where the Center Party is associated with the majority, and it's about getting an independent investigation of the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway. My question to the Council of State is, how did he intend to do that work? How will work be carried out, how quickly will it be started, and how independent can it be? The question is whether he will also go internationally to gain the necessary independence in that type of investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e469	The decisions taken by the Storting in this case will be followed up by the government. We're going to follow them up loyally, and that of course also applies to the decision to order a new independent investigation of genetic origin. We have research in Norway and Scandinavia on predatory game that is in the world class. In the case of wolves, there is hardly any animal we know more about in the world than the Norwegian wolf, and that also applies to the genetics of the wolf. Now that we get this decision, we'll follow it up. It's too early to say how we want to do it, but it's quite obvious that we take seriously both the wording and the purpose behind this from the bulk of the population. I understand that such an investigation can have a mitigation effect, and that in the long term it can also mitigate the level of conflict of those who doubt the genetic origin of the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e478	I'm asking for a little depression, because the council says here that we have good and basic research on the wolf. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of distrust between many of the professional environments you have in the case of wolves and those affected by Norwegian wolf policy. Some of the objectives of this investigation must be that it is completely independent of the well-known trade unions in Norway, and to some extent also in Scandinavia, which usually says things about this. If you don't order just a report where you know what the answer is in advance. So the decisive word in the decision today is going to be ‘independent’. How independent is the Council of State going to suggest that such an investigation should actually be?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e483	The majority asks the government to ‘order a new independent investigation’. Then it is my duty to ensure that we have a process that provides as independent an investigation as possible. So it's that an investigation can be independent and still be met with scepticism, resistance and distrust. But, as I said, we take the decision of the Storting and also the reasons and assessments behind this decision seriously. I would therefore like to add that we are going out wide and seeking to get environments to carry out such an investigation that is both independent and that can be considered independent. But some guarantee for it in such a polarized debate as the wolf debate we don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e490	To the last question: I would like to advise the Council of State when he is going to have a professional assessment, to ask the best professional environments. That's always wise to do. But I have a slightly different question. The majority now adopts a change in the stock target – four to six young people, including three Norwegian young people, and the cross-border groups. In practice, this means providing an opportunity to reduce the wolf population in Norway. In the Communication, the Council of State states that ‘there is no basis for lowering today’s level of ambition for wolves’. Then my question is: how does the Council of State view the possible reduction contained in the proposal, as opposed to the commitments Norway has to take care of wolves under the Berne Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e498	Norway is obliged under the Berne Convention to contribute to the survival of the southern Scandinavian wolf population. And we have to do it with Sweden, because the Berne Convention points are not least governance across borders. The Convention is very clear that each country has a separate responsibility to protect the wolf population, but it does not contain detailed rules on the distribution of responsibilities or numbers where neighbouring countries share a common stock. As you know, we have no agreement with Sweden on the sharing of responsibilities. The starting point for international law is that responsibility and burdens must be shared equally between two countries. Today, Sweden takes responsibility for a significantly greater proportion of the wolf population than Norway. There's nothing that tells us to aim for a mathematical equation, but you can take into account the context on either side of the boundary. Therefore, there are no detailed indications here, but it has been important for the government to submit proposals that will not give rise to any question of compliance with the Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e503	I thank you for the answer to Ola Elvestuen. In the letter of 26 May of this year, for which I thank the Council of State, he writes to questions from the Committee that there is doubt that a reduction in the wolf population will be in line with the Bern Convention. He also states that the target adopted today will lower the stock somewhat in relation to what it has been on, especially if you land on the lower end of the stock. It brings me back to what I said in my speech and challenged the Council of State, namely: the Council of State is set to ensure Norway's compliance with the Berne Convention, and he states that it is doubtful whether the lower part of the objective will be in line with the Berne Convention. In what way will this affect the signals to be given by the Council of State to the local birds of prey as well as to those who are to deal with the complaints on a decision, in relation to where to lie on the stock target over time — four to six juveniles?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e508	My letter gives some of the answer, but the message itself gives a more complete deepening of our reading of the Berne Convention and Norway's obligations. With regard to the follow-up to the Storting decision on the management of the interval, the evaluation and decision-making of the administration are required on a case-by-case basis. My signal is going to be that there are some considerations that are important. One is that a high level of inbreeding and a lot of illegal killing is talking about getting high in the interval. If there's less inbreeding and less illegal killing, it can talk about getting low in the interval. The interval is also important in order to establish cooperation with Sweden on the management of wolves in border relays. When you have an interval and it's up to the denominators to manage it, it becomes important to closely follow up to see the actual evolution on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e515	I thank you for your answer. I think it is good for the Council of States to take seriously the decision that the majority of people today are about to make, that he takes it in and intends to manage it in a way that is in line with the Bern Convention. I perceive the state council there that given today's situation, the one in which we stand, where we have had an increase in the number of breeding wolves in Norway, where hunting is also taking place in Sweden, and there are inbreeding problems as of today due to the need for the supply of new blood, the state council will give both those who are handling complaints, and the local authorities a signal not to lay down on the lower part of the tension. Have I understood the Council correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e520	What's right is that I have communicated some considerations that are going to be important, and that we – because there is a new stock target, that there is an interval, and that borderline revirators are in it – have to follow the situation closely. The second thing we have to do, as the majority of the committee wants, is to develop guidelines for dialogue, interaction and cooperation with Swedish authorities – that is in line with the government’s assessment – so that we are well aware of each other’s wishes and objectives across the border. The Berne Convention is under construction. The decision of the European Parliament is a democratic decision. There's a tension there, and we know how hard it is to manage predators. And not least when the stock targets are so modest, it's natural that we follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e528	The government's wolf report shows a lack of understanding of the everyday life of Norwegian villages. The two-part objective is weakly highlighted in the message. There is indeed a «message of the wolf», and there is reason to ask: Has no one really spoken the cause of the rural and rural industries in the government? Where has the Minister of Agriculture been during the treatment? Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment largely follows up the Minister for Environment's description of the reality and office-focused interpretation of the Berne Convention. The centre lot is particularly critical of the lack of precision in the decisions currently taken. It will provide considerable leeway for obscene environmental management and obscene environmental bureaucrats. It's the villagers who lose, it's the grazing industries that lose, it's the hunting interests that lose, and it's Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås' dream of meeting a wolf by the water that wins. There are several who praise what they call ‘a settlement’, or ‘a broad settlement’, as it is also called, when both the Right and the Advance Party are in the clouds. The Economic and Social Committee has delivered an opinion which does not share that view. We wanted a joint consultation with the Energy and Environment Committee. It turned out that the Committee did not wish to do so. They would not hear our questions and answers to them. The Committee and the majority of the Committee decided to proceed with their own agreement in the public sphere before the Economic and Social Committee had given its opinion, but the Economic and Social Committee gave a clear feedback on the matter. I note that it did not trigger any further comments from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and I note that it has largely passed away in silence so far in the debate. And that's what it is: agriculture, grazing, the security of the rural population – it's to be overlooked in silence. The majority of the Industry Committee – a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre – have expressed their support for three proposals. That is proposal No. 16, that the stock target is to be based on the actual number of juveniles per year and not on the average of a three-year period. It's about predictability. It is proposal No 17, where a request for a case on the possible risk of parasites and infectious diseases from the reinduction of wolves in Norway. And it is in the form of a note that there is support for proposal No. 14, from Marit Arnstad, of the Energy and Environment Committee, on standing grounding authorisation in the field of predatory wild game fence. I look forward to the vote, because the wolf policy must have real legitimacy – even outside Ring 3 – the rural people and the foreign interests must be taken seriously and not tedious. Conspiracy theory must not be called when a demand for an increased factual basis. And when we talk about the tranquility of the wolf policy, yes, there's a calm that's on the Storting and among parts of the people in Norway, people who live there, there's no wolf. And it's not easy to be afraid of wolves when you live in an area where there's no wolf. This is about the farmer who finds dead grazing animals, it's about families who have wolf lurking around the house. It's not about these big words that are used here, it's about people's everyday lives. I hope, however, that this debate can be a turning point in which future predatory debates will not be based on idealism and dreaming, but will be based on the reality of people living in the wolf and the villagers. In case it is not done, I will address the proposals No. 16-18, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e549	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e554	There are two challenges in this discussion. The first one is that it seems that some do not take into account the significant problems experienced by people in the wolf zone associated with the wolf. I heard the representative Holmås worried about what if one did the same considerations around the loon bird as one now does around the wolf. Then I have to say that there is enough reason why people in the Røst are more friendly to the loin bird than the people in the Østerdalen are to the wolf. That's probably a reason. One of the reasons why this often becomes conflicty is that it seems that sometimes you underestimate the significant problems that people have actually experienced associated with wolves in recent years. I would like to bring the representative Holmås on a short weekend in the Østerdalen if he would like to hear and see the wolf. People now experience having them around their legs. There's a lot of animals. We also know that what has been the basis of life for people in a large part of Norway has actually been torn away by the decisions taken in relation to wolf management. So the lack of ability to carry out life development, grazing, and not least hunting, has to take over the majority of the population in assessing the wolf management of the future. The second major problem relating to this debate is people's lack of trust, and it comes from the first one here. This is especially because it is seen that the big community does not intervene when you experience significant damage. Therefore, at least the undersigned is satisfied that one has managed to achieve this agreement. I believe that this agreement can help to raise the level of confidence, by making it more clear that action can be taken when you are going to intervene, including in wolfesona, at a lower level of population than you've had at present. That's good. As the rapporteur, the representative of Aasland, also said, the stock target is an actual objective. There's reason to underline. I think it could help, along with what the Council pointed out, actually push decision-making power down the system and out to the conveniences, to give this area greater trust, which is needed if you are to give protected legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e563	Let me first thank the Stortinget for finally showing the will to take seriously the burden, the conflict and the displacement of a number of interests that wolf policy has placed on my community, because when the wolf establishes revir, it is dramatic. All grazing stops, hunting and other land use changes greatly, dogs are taken – I have even seen old hare owners crying over lost dogs and hobbies. Now everything is away from my vicinity. The mark is added to the stack. Many feel fear, it may not be rational, but it's actually real. I have followed the re-establishment of the wolf for 40 years. At first, I believed in the ‘Southern Scandinavian dream’ and thought that we had a responsibility. Gradually, it has evolved that I am now saying that it is not a matter of accepting that Hedmark's nutritional basis and quality of life are sacrificed on the altar to a heavily inbred wolf of unknown origin, perhaps highly hybridized with a dog, where the definitions of the Nature Diversity Act should really apply. Ownership, respect for the individual, the caretaker, the forest fin, the grazing landscape and a number of other things go far ahead. I find it almost impossible to believe that Stortinget has received a big message that has not clarified the genetic and geographic origin of a complete DNA and for both sexes. It's now the mission. Uppsala University's findings from 2001 are not discussed. I find it amazing that you haven't talked about reintroduction when it's proven to be exposed to wolves in Sweden on several occasions. I find it incredible that the Berne Convention is being taken as lightly as it is being done, and the statement in the Communication – ‘The genetic origin of the species is not relevant to the responsibility of the states’ – is meaningless environmental policy. When salmon is salmon, we got gyro, what do we get when wolf is wolf? This is serious. Besides, if wolf is wolf regardless of origin, we're talking about the most adaptable and successful predator after man. You have to decide – either the genetics are important, and then the southern Scandinavian tribe is extinct, or the genetics doesn't matter, and then the wolf is not threatened. The knowledge gaps are so many in this big message that it is not really suitable as a decision-making document. It reminds me more of a party post than of an objective representation. This is what is at the heart of the conflict, which Knut Storberget was also involved in. The conflict has emerged, confidence has disappeared – in total, environmental policies are very harmful. The notes in the setting speak a clear language.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e574	When I have been listening to this debate, I am a little surprised – amazed that we, who are a little critical of having wolves on the doorstep, and who are a little critical of the grazing animals being able to feed a predator, are called ignorant. When you compare a flyingbird and a killing machine like a wolf and call others unknowing, it's allowed to question it. When you also say that there is a lot of pressure on agriculture within the wolf zone and at the same time say that there is little damage outside the zone, I ask you what is the basis for this. If you look at the extent of the damage that has been done there is a wolf, i.e. within the zone, it's true that the damage within the zone has gone down. But there's nothing strange, because soon there's no grazing animal left to take there. As a result, the extent of damage outside the zone has increased considerably, for there are grazing animals left – yet. How long it goes on, with the wolf administration that's been there, it's okay to ask questions about it. So you also say that it's enough deer game to take off, that the wolf can get. It gets smaller and smaller, there's no doubt about, as the wolf population increases. In a hunting area in Sweden, they fell 17 000 moose a year a few years ago. Now they're down to 3,000. What is the significance of this exercise and its ring-fence around the fact that it is also a food resource? It's a little amazing to hear that we who have lived with the wolf, have seen the wolf and know what the wolf can do, are criticized as unknowingly. When we say that the wolf takes a walk into a sheep's nest and takes sheep and pulls it out, we're ignorant – but we've seen it for ourselves. What I am very pleased about is the introduction to the representative Elvesuen and his clarification, where he repeatedly says that this agreement we have now reached will lead to a reduction in the wolf population. I am extremely pleased with that, because it has been the intention of the Progress Party in this whole matter, and we have made it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e588	Morten Ørsal Johansen represents the government party Progress Party. Gunnar Gundersen represents Ring 3-Right, who has now had an impact on this matter. There is no doubt that the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party was initially even more far-reaching than what is now being adopted. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have moderated what I have called Ring 3-Right and Government-FrP, so that the proposal for a decision becomes a little less extreme than the government itself would. What is sad in this case is that this will be a decision that will maintain the level of conflict. It won't be any better for those who practice grazing. There won't be anything better for those who lose hunting rights. It won't be any better for those who get their private ownership weakened. It doesn't get any better for those who run outdoors. This is a major, major intervention – and this is because we are going to reintroduce a species, as it says in the opinion of the majority of the nutrition committee. And that's no Norwegian responsibility. We have many Norwegian responsibilities that exceed 25 pst. the population is in Norway. Then it is natural to introduce additional measures. Whether it's owls, wild bogs or estuaries – we have a whole range of Norwegian responsibilities. But then we also have a blacklist. It says wild boar. Wild boars all agree to be a replication of a species in Norway, which has also been in Norway before, but we have made a political choice that we do not want. But in the case of the Finnish-Russian wolf, we have made a political choice that we want it. There's no difference between wild boar and wolf except that it's more symbolic to say that you're too wolf than for wild boar. None of the two species are endangered, but you want to reintroduce them. And if you're going to reintroduce them, you should at least be able to see the people who take the consequences of it, in their eyes. It has been dramatic for those who live in the wolf zone in my constituency. People have changed their lives altogether — from using the field as an economic pathway, as a leisure path, and as a definition for their whole lives, to taking it away from them. And then at least it should be because we want to take care of something special. I met the Swedish Minister of Agriculture when the Senter Party was in government, and he was quite clear that they had their own postponement project on the wolf because they were to secure the species. You should put out the wolf. But it was stopped because one animal man was killed by one wolf. So to those who have said that it is nonsense that there is being put out wolf on the Swedish side: it is a fact. And if you ask the Swedish government, they say it quite openly, that it has been part of their adopted policy. There have been waves, but the last project was stopped because of the tragic accident that actually happened. And if you read the MD's website, you'll see for yourself that it says that you have transported wolves from North Sweden to South Sweden. So it's a biological experiment. It's not an experiment to ensure species diversity, it's to reintroduce a species. We should rather use resources in Norwegian responsibilities rather than in a species that creates as many challenges as it actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e599	There is no doubt that predatory policies are demanding. It is also in our state, and it was with great wonder many environments in Uppland as the wolf message that came from the government. I don't think any of those who were surprised by the content of that message experience as some bear service that today the bulk of the population has significantly improved that message, because in large parts of the country, agriculture is an important industry. Many live on animal husbandry, and the use of pasture beets is necessary — necessary because it contributes to animal welfare and to the quality of the meat produced, because in parts of the country it is not possible to use the land for production other than grass, and necessary because agriculture is a large part of domestic employment. I've traveled a lot in the Gudbrand valley in the last few years, and I've met farmers who have had to give up the livestock because of predatory game. It's pretty tough to meet them, go behind the barn and see heaps of sheep lying there, which are torn in the heels of predators. That's why it's so important that we can now move on and get to a better management of the wolf. Although Uppland is not part of the wolf zone, it is such that many reptiles also enter Uppland, and the analyses of the wolves taken in Uppland show that they are likely to come from Sweden. That's why I think it's absolutely right that you now get a greater awareness that you have to see the wolf tribe in Sweden in connection with the Norwegian. The wolves and predators in Uppland often do great damage, and therefore it is so important that we have a predictability of withdrawals. Then I believe that we need to put greater emphasis on local knowledge, which is owned by predators. It is important that they have the necessary powers for us to quickly extract pests, and it is important that there is predictability in the relevant procedural rules. I have to say that it was surprising to see that the Council of State directly intervened in granting some permission to be killed. It was disturbing, it was surprising. I expect that the procedures to be used below will be more predictable, so that people know how to behave, and then I believe that more attention needs to be paid to the knowledge and work of the predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e608	Few things have engaged more than this – in the media, out among the people and here on the Stortinget. This is probably where the distinction between the city and the country has become clearer than in many other cases. We need to respect the fact that the discussion about wolves affects many, and in particular those who live with predators closely. That is why I am very pleased that the position that has now been presented to Stortinget is broadly politically anchored and has an intensification in relation to what has been practised up to now. Nevertheless, we have a settlement that is enshrined in the 2004 Robbery Agreement. I am very pleased that the majority in this case is so clear that the management of the wolf tribe aims to create confidence and respect in the population and seek to mitigate the level of conflict. It underlines the importance of dialogue and local involvement for both management and interested interests, so that the challenges of some can be addressed as best as possible. The majority point out that respect for private property rights must also be enshrined in the robberies management. It is also important to stress that the management of breeding permits is now added to the regional predatory game subject when the wolf population is within the stock target. Regional governance is an important principle, as it is more aware of the challenges and can make the best decisions within the national framework. It is also good that the powers to take decisions relating to cross-border viruses are now transferred from the Directorate for the Environment to the denominators, and that this is done as soon as possible. In my meetings with the grazing industry, I feel a great acceptance that we should have predators here in the country. There is an understanding that there should be room for both grazing animals and predators. The dissemble lies on the follow-up of the authorities with regard to the collection of pests. Harm animals must be removed quickly and efficiently without red tape delaying the process and must be hunted in a humane manner. For these reasons, the emphasis on effective management and keeping the stock target as important. The same is the actual intensification in relation to the former – smaller wolvesone, all young people should be counted, and the border virus should be introduced. In addition to the efficient extraction of pests and a more trust-based management, good and fair compensation mechanisms are essential to mitigate conflicts. The establishment of wolves has significant consequences for the individual rightholder and is an interference with ownership. Therefore, it is fair and reasonable for the State to provide full compensation for losses and accompanying costs when domestic animals and domestic animals are killed by predators. I hope that today's decisions can help us to have more efficient predator management, and that the follow-up to the predatory game settlement can be even better. We should be able to have both predators and grazing animals in this country. Then some measures must be taken, and we do so in this case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e625	I think it is good that a fairly broad majority have gathered together, and in addition, there have been restrictions on Norwegian wolf policy in the future in relation to what was presented by the government – the stock targets and the restriction of wolf zones. It is also useful for a majority to stress the importance of maximising regional governance and therefore believe that regional administration should have the power to take decisions on killing and on whether the wolf population is within both the stock target and national objectives. I want to make it clear that the stock must be perceived as a minimum and a maximum target, and that this has been achieved when one has passed four and should not exceed six. Actions will then be taken. It is also good that the Energy and Environment Committee writes that the stock target should be based on the actual number of juveniles each year. I would like to stress that Stortinget has a goal of increasing Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. This will also require the provision of grazing resources and the exploitation of them. In this context, it is therefore important to bear in mind that the objective of Norwegian predatory policy is twofold: to balance the consideration of predatory game with that of grazing. I would also like to clarify in this context the importance of loss being and having to be fully replaced. West Agder, where I come from, belongs to the wolf-free son. Nevertheless, in recent years and each year, several reptiles have been seriously injured, to the dismay of the industry. I hope and believe that the decisions taken today – the reduction of the wolf zone and the establishment of a stock target, where, once it has been achieved, action will be taken – along with other measures in the conciliation process, which the rapporteur explained well, will improve the situation for the industry, while also finding a good balance for Norwegian wolf policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e638	Throughout generations, sheep farming has been a traditionally important part of agriculture in my region and in my municipality, Eidsvoll. I want the agriculture that I know, and the cultural landscape that it contributes well to in Akershus, to continue to exist. It looks very nice on the paper when a reader is going to manage predators and grazing animals as separate as possible. Nevertheless, it is not everyday in the pasture areas in which I live. My field outside the wolf zone is covered by wolves, and there is a lot of suffering both for sheep and for owners. It also makes a very big impression on us others when we travel in our beautiful forest areas in Eidsvoll and see dead or shy sheep suffering. It impresses me when the farmer in my neighborhood tells me that in 2014 he lost 120 animals to pasture. It makes the same impression on me when Hans Petter Klockkerengen, the robber's contact with the State's natural supervision in Eidsvoll, tells how he feels to have to slaughter these grazing animals. His job is to document the damage and tell the hunting teams where the last sheep has been taken. He's going to be with the sheep farmer out to kill the sheep, and he obsesses and documents that there's predatory game that has damaged the sheep. When he says he's 100 pst. Make sure there's bit marks and the wolf's killing pattern, I'm sure he knows his business. Last year he told my local Eidsvoll Ullensaker Blad that since 1992 he has slaughtered almost 2,500 sheep injured in grazing areas. Last week we had visited the wolf a few hundred meters from where I live in a building field, and it's not only sheep beans that can then become anxious, but also us. Now we're in front of a summer when the sheep farmers, with great doubt again, do it generations before they have done: let their animals out on the field. It is likely that there will be shorter and shorter pasture grazing on the animals and early collection in the harvest. I can therefore feel that I am being slightly provoked by the poetry that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is trying on in his post today. Thus, it is not the case in the pasture-priority areas of Eidsvoll that you experience the blessing of nature when the wolf visits us. It leaves itself shy and very suffering animals, peasants crying over their suffering animals, and farmers who consider ending the livestock they've been with for generations. There is also a lot of resources to hunt whoever kills, and he's often good at hiding. I'm glad that the majority today is finding a solution to population goals that we can accept, and is in favour of a broader investigation of the wolf's genetic origin. So I'm satisfied that several areas have been taken out of the wolf zone, and then we're going to hope that it keeps the wolf a little further east, that it doesn't move over the next natural barrier, which is eleven Vorma, so that it'll threaten the existence of even more sheep bones within the grazing priority area. Of wolves and sheep I still hold the tab high because it is the sheep that is an eel-ridden animal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e655	Firstly, to comment on the debate, I must say that I am pleased that the representative Rasmus Hansson is still giving us new arguments – and good arguments – against a Norwegian EU membership. It is probably right that if we were within the EU, there would have been an even more expansive wolf policy than it is when we are outside. It is often so that the farther away the power is from those who are actually affected by something, the easier it is also to make three decisions downwards on people. It is a common experience in the field of predatory wildlife policy. I have noted that some speakers believe that what is now going to become policy is going to become clearer than what has happened in the past. But it is the way in which the Council of State already contributes to creating uncertainty with its many reservations about how to understand a new range target – we have to take into account that there is a new type of target, we have to take into account the dialogue with Sweden, etc., etc. So that this should be so much clearer, I'm very uncertain about. There have been very many good contributions on grazing, but the many speakers from the majority parties who here value agriculture and grazing should also think twice. This stock target will help to increase conflicts, and it will help to continue to weaken confidence. It is such that the extent of damage outside the wolf zone increases considerably. It's one of the big problems we're experiencing. We got an example of this this weekend: when one from Uppland applies on Saturday for a penitentiary permit on a wolf that is in an area where sheep are released on the same day, a rejection from the State of Uppland is due to the fact that there are no wolf injuries yet. However, it is directly contrary to item 2.2.19 of the Robbery Agreement, which reads as follows: ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals.’ Then one is also going to get that killing permit, and the fact that one does not get it, creates exactly the mistrust between the environmental management and the pasturage users that many people here have had. So I'm going to challenge the Council of State on that, because he has other issues relating to permission to be killed, among other things. the case of sheep boars having a right-wing membership has been very rapid on the trigger to grant a breeding permit. The question that I believe the Council of State has to answer here today is: Will the grazing priority area in Uppland be granted permission before any damage occurs, when the sheep are released? That would have been in line with item 2.2.19 of the Robbery Agreement. I believe that the Council of State here today should answer straight up and down to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e671	I have followed the debate, and I must say he has been a sad sight. A highly threatened animal species is now going out and hunting, not because it has a professional basis, not because the government has suggested it, but because a strong conspiracy theory and a high-sounding minority have been given the right to run. The government provided a knowledge base in the form of a big message, which was good and could provide a basis for a broad settlement. What's going on? What's happening is that the government and the Environment Minister are becoming humble, not only by a large majority, but a large majority led by their own party. It's eye-catching. Not enough of this: after one has softened the government and government policies in the Energy and Environment Committee, the Business Committee reports and criticises the Energy and Environment Committee that one does not have enough soft government. The majority wrote in the comments of the Business Committee: ‘The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that, in general terms, environmental protection such as the reintroduction of wolves is not a good environmental protection.’ And on the other hand, ‘The majority of the committee believes that it would simplify the management and understanding of the stock target if there were no designation of helenian juveniles.’ It is difficult to conclude in any other way than that here the government has no basis at all in its own mainstreaming of the policies they propose. The thing we're dealing with now is a setback for Norwegian predator policy, not only because one now no longer has a broad majority around politics, which one has had for 12 years, but because one also ignores professional advice. Finally, I would like to point out a trend I think is generally scary in politics. It's this notion that my few are as valid as your knowledge. So here, representatives from the Central Party go to the pulpit and ask for a new research because they don't trust what they call the well-known disciplines in Scandinavia. So the center party thinks that knowledge is not good enough. They want another research, because they're not any of the research they're saying. The kind of approach to politics is going crazy. Now it leads us to a place where we will have a smaller wolf tribe, contrary to our international obligations, and contrary to what should be a decent Norwegian predator policy. There's every reason to complain about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e694	At least it is good to know that the distance between SV, MDG and the Central Party is getting bigger and bigger the longer this debate is going on. I don't think it's so hard for anyone to understand that the central party has been in government with SV for eight years and used almost every opportunity to improve predatory policies, including the wolf policy, is helping to express the debate we have today. The representative, Elvesuen, took up and boasted violently about the tranquillity we have had in Norway about wolf management, and referred to the comparisons from both 2004 and 2011. Yes, it is well possible that there has been peace at Stortinget, it is well possible that there has been peace in Oslo, and it is well possible that there has been peace in Frogner Park, but for those who live and live where the son is, or in the border viruses of the son, there has not been much peace and quiet. There's been nothing but conflicts all along. So you can start to think about what it looks like. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås pointed out that in Norway we had only had three coals of bilge bird or three coals of mountain reefs, we could not accept it. That's quite correct, but I guess we couldn't accept six coals of loon or mountain reefs, as SV suggests about wolf. This is where the representative Eidsvoll Holmås goes wild in the woods when he believes that the management of the wolf is comparable to the management of the flyingbird and mountain reefs. I don't know if he goes wild in the Hackground Forest or in the Hundremeter Forest, but I find that he doesn't see the forest for just trees. The representative Rasmus Hansson, as we have heard several times, is a major agricultural reformer, who wants to transform the entire Norwegian agricultural policy of grazing animals, and that farmers are not even allowed to decide what kind of buffalo they want, also went completely away here today. He tells us that we must take care of God the creation of our Lord. Yeah, let's do that. God Our Lord has set men to care for both buffalo and predators, and we have done so for many thousand years, both through shepherds and herdsmen and through management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e705	There have been several articles suggesting that the Right has fallen down for those who are opposed to the wolf, in this case. I will strongly reject that. If we go to our programme, it is fairly clear. We're going to ‘safe and viable populations of the large wild game species, in cooperation with all our neighbouring countries, within the natural range of species’. [[...]] The Declaration of Government is even clearer: ‘The Government will ensure the viability of populations of the major predatory game species under the Robbery Agreement and seek to reduce the level of conflict’.» Through the agreement we have between the four parties, I believe we are safe within our program, our government statement and earlier settlement. Today's goal, with three heroic young people, we continue. If it was within our obligations, both internationally and otherwise, before today's decision, it must also apply after today's decision. The centre party will continue today's stock targets, but include the cross-border fleets. This means that there does not have to be heroic young people, and the Center Party thus leaves all responsibility to Sweden. The Left, SV and the Green Party, which, in the name of propriety, did not participate in the comparisons in 2004 and 2011, want a doubling of Hellenic juveniles in relation to today and a corresponding doubling of the border reviruses. It is high above what the Storting has agreed on in the past and will make it even more difficult to achieve the two-part objective of both predators and deer. There are also allegations that with this we will virtually eradicate the wolf in Norway. No, this doesn't. As I was in my previous post, today's stock situation will mean that the denominators can open up to take out three heroic wolf flocks within the wolf zone, with the administration we have today, while our proposal involves three to six wolf flocks, including the border reviruses. Regardless of old or new management, the names can now open up for hunting within the zone for the first time in history. I think that's a good news. Hunting itself is one of the most conflict-relieving measures available, because those living within the zone can actively participate in keeping the population at the level set by the Stortinget. Finally, a little bit more power is now given to environmental authorities with the new stock target: no, they don't. They are now responsible for all wolf management in Norway once the target has been reached. It involves more local government. I believe that it obliges us all to mitigate the level of conflict in both directions in this debate. We're going to have wolves in Norway, we're going to have them now, and we're going to have them in the future. And what is adopted today is based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e726	I'm not going to go into whether the Right makes a kneecap, but the Right at least goes away from what the government is proposing, and goes into a proposal that reduces the number of wolves in Norway. You move down dangerously towards what is the Berne Convention's obligation, and it will then be a matter of whether you actually go under the obligation in the administration. It will be interesting to see not only the Norwegian reaction, but also the international reaction when the consequences of the decision are taken – if it is followed up with the trigger it opens. There's also another thing that the Right does with this decision. It undermines the knowledge-based, professional management of wolves that we have had in Norway, by entering into decisions that question the professional environments in which we have genetics, but also far beyond it, because there are none of the descriptions or figures that you really believe in, nor the hunting grounds. The report says that yes, there are changes in the elk population where there is a wolf, but at the municipality level no change can be seen. It's not like there's going to be less elk in the areas where you have the wolf zone. You can also compensate by the way you put up the hunt, to keep up these populations. It is well described in the message, and it is possible to do so. Yes, this is how you describe the extent of damage within the zone, of course, has gone down. It just shows that you can have a good administration. The left fully agrees that the prevention measures in the wolf zone need to be strengthened, and we have proposals to do so, both in support of the municipalities of the state budget, by establishing a national programme for the systematic development of harm prevention measures for the grazing industry and by asking the government to start testing risk-based compensation schemes. The majority want fewer wolves to limit the damage. With the policy we are pursuing, I think we can quickly get wrong. It is such that the extent of grazing animals is naturally the largest outside the wolf zone. But the wolf that causes that damage is largely reptiles from Sweden and border areas, and these will not be reduced by the policies we are currently pursuing. On the contrary, Sweden may quickly have to compensate for the tightening up that Norway is now doing to ensure that we have, and follow-up, the stock targets we need to maintain the southern Scandinavian wolf population. The consequence will be that the amount of damage can increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e743	The fact that we have predators in Norwegian nature is bloody serious for many people who live with it. I've met people, talking to them, seeing the turmoil, the mind, which they could even have against me as Minister for the Environment, the sheep farmers who came, the ears they had cut off and showed me, from the sheep they had lost to the wolf. This is bloody serious. Although you are, in fact, a greater challenge than wolf, it is bloody serious for those who live where there is wolf. It's bloody serious on the other side too. It's bloody serious for everyone who's concerned that we should take care of a critical extinction threat, and that we, together with other countries, should take responsibility for it. After all, for a decade now, what the Stortinget has done is to act relatively state-leading and try to tie these concerns together – yes, even in the last round to bring all the parties to a settlement, where we could get as much as we could, managed to maintain the opposite direction. Now we've disconnected from it and actually gave up that attempt. The centre party really jumped off several years ago because they wanted to run an electoral campaign on this matter instead of directing it. But now the majority have disconnected – the environmental party as well. In this case, I am particularly surprised by the governmental parties Right and Workers' Party, which are usually the bearers of trying to be different. What are we going to do with a government-managing party if you can't act a little government-managing when you need it? So it's a shame that we're now back in a full phase of conflict, where everyone cracks up on all sides. I think that the conciliation that the plural will adopt today is particularly critical on three points. Fortunately, it is very rare that we in Norway adopt things that we openly know – confirmed by the Council of State – can be contrary to international conventions, and challenge them. It happens, but it happens very rarely, and it happens very rarely with knowing and willing. It's also very rare that we adopt something that we know is in conflict with the majority of people want, in repeated measurements. I've heard more articles here that a little bit of civic research says the opposite, that people don't want them here. It's completely wrong. It is a significant empirical basis from repeated surveys that, across the country, in different types of regions, it is a clear multiplicity of viable populations. And there's a number that wants a more liberal predator policy, that is, a predator policy with more predators than the opposite, despite the fact that many people feel the opposite when talking to their neighbors. Thirdly, fear is real. The representative, Gundersen, said it well: maybe not rational, but real. Fear is real, and hence it must be taken into consideration. But should we base our policy on this fear? We can't do that. That is why I think it is regrettable that we are going from wide-ranging comparisons that take different consideration, to a policy that will give less wolves and more conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e756	At first, I was going to congratulate the government, which has finally managed to deliver a message about the wolf. I remember asking the first climate and environmental councils, Sundtoft, about when they were going to submit a message about the wolf, since this question was to be resolved by the end of 2013 – this was in the autumn of 2013. Now it's been three years, and a wolf message has come – and a settlement. There is a message that the government's spokesmen here in Stortinget have thought is so bad that they wanted to send it back to the Council of State. The representatives Gundersen and Ørsal Johansen thought when the message came, that they did not take account of anything but the predators, while forgetting all other interests. Ørsal Johansen said it so striking to the newspaper DG: ‘In this message, there is much that is not at stake.’ – All other interests have been forgotten. – ‘The use of foreign resources, hunting, industrial interests, the economy and the burden on people. And they completely drop the question as to whether this is the reintroduction of a species." That is why he wanted to send the message back. This was not the case, and I doubt that the quality of the message had become so much better when it was sent back. These are wild inscriptions, which are read through and accepted by political leadership, which probably have little knowledge of the situation of those who live and try to live off the soil and sheep and grazing in the areas that are most burdensome. So to the representative Arnstad said instead: It is probably more than I have received an e-mail today that there was an application for a penitentiary permit on the wolf on 4 June, i.e. two days ago, on the wolf observed a few kilometres from sheep that were released on the field the same day, in priority grazing area. This application was rejected by the State of Oppland because there is no wolf injury yet. It is no wonder that many people feel that this breaks with the predatory game agreement that is already under way today. In point 2.2.19, it states: ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and calving areas for domestic animals.’ I would also like to ask the Council of State, as the representative Arnstad did earlier: Will an application for damages prevention be granted in pasture areas? We know that the Directorate-General for the Environment has problems at all in responding to such enquiries regarding you, so I ask the Council of State: will damage prevention be authorised for the killing of wolves in grazing priority areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e775	The definition of knowledge, if we go to Sveinung Rotevatn, is well if you can hold an academic post on a Civita lunch. Well, that's what the definition of knowledge is, because he accused all of us who have a different view than him, of lack of knowledge and of «ability» – we who did not want the predatory policy that Sveinung Rotevatn wanted from Left and Sogn and Fjordane wanted. Not all of us may have made so many academic posts on Civita frogs as Rotevatn has done, but many of us have met those who are affected by predatory policies over and over again, and it has also given knowledge. In addition, we have met representatives from the Swedish government, read the various reports from Skandulv and see what is written there. It has also provided knowledge of the challenges this poses, and that it is not about taking care of a particular southern Scandinavian wolf tribe, it is about a reintroduction. If you read the reports from Petter Wabakken from Skandulv, they're completely honest about it, too. It's not about taking care of a particular strain, it's about a reintroduction. It can be for – that’s of course an honest stand, it – or you can be against it, and it’s also an honest stand. But saying that this is a particularly endangered species is wrong. In direct contact with the Swedish government, they say that they have a programme to deploy new wolves from Swedish zoos – the fact. When you read the Skandulv report, it says that some of the animals have received a small ‘help’ in the last bit – they have been transported from South Sweden to North Sweden. It's a fact. But you might think that's right, and you might think that's wrong. We believe that this is wrong. It is also a fact that wild boar, which has also been in the Scandinavian fauna and was in Norway before, is blacklisted. It's also a reintroduction of a species that we've politically chosen to blacklist. There's nothing more unique about wild boar than with wolf, but wolf is a more symbolic animal. But wolves create an enormous amount of trouble, which many do not take inward. For example, Ola Elvesuen from the Left – again – says that the wolf has no impact on the elk population. Then he has not been much in the woods in Hedmark and Uppland and discussed this. Take Trysil, which was the largest elk municipality: there's the quota almost halved. One can go from municipality to municipality, because according to Rovdata is 95 pst. of the food of the wolf elk. Of course it'll be less elk then. You have to be honest about that, because that's actually what happens. I challenge Vidar Helgesen as the Council of State to come to an open meeting in Hedmark and meet the people that this is actually about – discuss, look them in the eye and defend the policy he stands for. Vidar Helgesen has not yet done so. He was in on a little symbol visit to Finnskogen just to say that he has done it. As a government council, you should not fear the people, but take a trip to Trysil, invite the people and say, "What do you mean?" And why is it that even within a predator-proof fence, there should be no standing moat permit? That should be explained to those who are affected, and not to fear the people, for here the people have a lot of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e788	I thought I would take the floor almost to the end and note that the debate went to the end, but it is not certain that it does. The debate I could have thanked for, not necessarily because it has been so good, but because it to those degrees has emphasized how difficult it is to unite the parties in the Great Britain in this very matter. When I hear those asking for a settlement, I basically agree with that. It could have been an advantage to have a total accumulation in something that is so difficult, as complicated and not least as emotional as predatory management, especially towards wolves. There is no doubt about the reality. We don't get rid of the conflicts, like that. The centre party assesses the matter, before the wolf is out of Norway. It is a reality. Then someone has a much greater need to show that they are very much for wolves in Norway. When it is referred to negotiations where the SV and the Central Party believe that the majority withdrew, I believe it is wrong. We sat and discussed, discussed, what different inputs we had, and we were going to test it out. We came back and reported the views of the respective parties, and what has emerged is – let's say – well within what is the party program for the Workers' Party. And the reality we discussed -- I can open up by saying that -- that was the recording in the message, was five to eight family groups, or four to six young people, on whom we landed. Then I wonder, how do you expect it to become black-and-white in the presentation from Left and SV? Then you want to add conflict to this topic. Or it's to help create inequalities and differences between the games that are larger than what they actually were when we sat and talked. I'm not sure if the change that was in the big message, from five to eight groups, until what the majority is for, four to six young people, is going to change the number of wolves dramatically. There's someone here who's obtrusive that it's going so far above the border that one's about to eradicate the wolf from Norwegian nature. I believe that is a little knowledge-based expression in this debate. I am pleased that we have managed to create a broad majority for a difficult matter, a sensitive matter, but a matter in which we clearly have a responsibility to care for our predatory game in a good way. We think we're doing it now in the case of wolves. Then it'll be exciting to see if what we've contributed together to, actually dampen the conflicts, because that's one of the purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e797	This has gone from being a debate based on ability to become a debate based on ruling techniques. Social violence Vedum is up in the pulpit and uses it as an argument to keep academic posts on Civita breakfasts. In fact, I believe that the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum has kept more articles on the Civita breakfasts than the signatures have done – without it having anything to do with what we are now discussing. The rule technique that goes back a lot more is all those who go to the pulpit and talk about it, feel and do inside Ring 3, in Frogner Park – in those parts of the country that don't have wolves. I would like to say to the representatives of Hedmark, Oppland, Akershus, Østfold and Oslo, that they are warmly welcome to be present in mass debate on oil business, on race-tracking, on small airports, on fisheries management, and on yews that take sheep in Sogn and Fjordane, because we are the national assembly in the country, and we are discussing national issues. And if we're going to take responsibility for the species that are in our nature or not, it's a national question, even though of course I understand that those who live in the areas where this species exists have strong meaning about him. Nevertheless, as the representative Solhjell rightly points out, in the whole country, even in the areas where there are wolves, the great majority of the people are in order for Norway to have a viable wolf tribe. In the first post, Gunnar Gundersen's representative was up and said that the fear that people feel may not be rational, but she's real. Yeah, that's possible. But then the question is, what is the task of the politicians? Is it to light up under what they admit is an irrational fear, or is it to respond to the fear of knowledge, to explain what are the realities, and to put up a long-term resilient policy based on research? In today's edition of the Newspaper Nations, the representative Pollestad says: ‘The big question, which only the Centre Party dares to address, is whether the wolf belongs in Norwegian nature.’ And one must dare to take that debate. We must dare to take the debate if we are to eradicate a endangered species from Norwegian nature. That's not my definition of daring, that's my definition of cowardice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e813	It's quite a wonder I'm listening to Rotevatn. It's rare I hear so much arrogance. There is no doubt that everyone should be able to participate in all debates – but ‘attain’ and ‘rule’ techniques? We're talking about what you do when you meet a young mother who has kids, who says exactly what Rotevatn says, that it's not dangerous to have wolves around the corner of the house. But then the kids go in and search the Internet and find some kind of attack. Then the kids don't go out and use nature as they've done before. There's a lot of stories about this. When I hear Rotevatn, I also wonder when it became immature to fight for Norway to actually be used? There is no doubt that Norway is being set up, where the wolf establishes a reviral system. That's also why the damage figures go down, which Morten Ørsal Johansen was in. When did it become so immature to defend that there actually needs to be very good reasons why Norway should set aside its old traditions – the consideration of the southern, the wild and all of this? We're actually forbidding moondogs. I belong to those who are very excited about what the genetic research is going to show. I notice that the most in-depth study done, at Uppsala University in 2001, is not being discussed. So it suggests a geographic origin that doesn't match any of the theories you're holding on to in this hall. So a small matter of opinion polls: it's very special that Erik Dalen, who is the director of Ipsos, one of Norway's best polling institutes, has to stand up at the hearing of the nutrition committee to tell us that his figures are used incorrectly. I've never experienced that before. That's pretty special. He says that the majority you claim doesn't exist, and it doesn't take much statistical knowledge to find out that those polls are fairly manipulated. I agree with Terje Aasland that there is a gap going through the country. I have chosen to stand with the majority and work through this majority. I think we have come a long way in terms of change. I have been asked several times if I am voting in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. I'm not going to, precisely because I think the most important thing is to work through the majority and stick to the consensus you have there. It's obvious: what do you have to do with a predatorproof fence if you're going to allow them to be there? But I feel that all of this lies within what is now stated in the remarks that the government is going to investigate. That is why I think it is very good that a large part of the Storting has come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e824	I take the word just to stress that Stortinget has adopted a target of increasing Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. There are grazing resources and a central part. Then we cannot have a predatory policy that undermines that possibility. I respect that there is a majority in this case, but there are only two issues that I want to address. One is that when the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment writes that ‘the target should be based on the actual number of young people each year’, I see that it is in contrast to the government that wants to base an average of three years. To clarify that uncertainty, I would like to challenge the Council of State to determine whether he perceives that it is ‘every year’ that applies, or whether there is a need to establish — as we have done in proposal No. 16 – that one shall ‘base a population based on the actual number of juveniles each year and not an average of the last three years documented data’. If you look at the post from Gunnar Gundersen's representative earlier, where he said it was settled within the conciliation, it might be okay if the Council could also clarify whether it was, that it is natural to grant standing permission for the killing of wild game fences. It has to be clear that when we accept major natural interventions, when we spend a lot of money establishing predatory fences – and then one has to start a discussion and a process when the wolf supplies sheep within predatory fences – then there has to be a standing permission for killing. So I think it's important to back up under proposal No. 14, from the Central Party, and it will help to strengthen legitimacy in the countryside of the predatory policy of the leader. I don't think that nature conservation bureaucrats will read the decisions and comments made by the Storting, with the eyes of the villagers – they will be read with the Ring 3 glasses. And it will be in the wolf's favor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e835	Let me bore down and explain some contexts related to questions from, among other things. Arnstad and Tingelstad Wøien – and also a comment on the last post, from the representative Pollestad. With regard to the question of the victimisation of wolves, it is the County that now has the power to take decisions on the victimisation of wolves in Uppland, on the basis of the injury trap rate adopted by the predatory game subject. A complaint to this effect shall be dealt with by the Directorate for the Environment and not by the Ministry. In each case, the counties must assess whether there is a basis for permitting killing, inter alia. in the light of the existence of a potential for damage in the area. Whether or not this is a potential damage will depend, inter alia, on: on geography and the likelihood that the predator has wandered out of the pasture. In addition to that, I do not find it natural to express myself in a specific case where there is an application for withdrawal. So briefly to the question from Pollestad about standing breeding permits: there is no basis for allowing standing breeding permits, nor within predator-repellent fences. Nor will it comply with our obligations under the Berne Convention. Folding may only be permitted if the extraction does not threaten the survival of the stock and the purpose cannot be achieved in any other satisfactory way. It is said that there is usually a much lower threshold for off-takes within such a fence than outside, precisely for the sake of the damage potential. Therefore, breeding authorisations are generally granted quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e846	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e849	The representative Gundersen asked me for advice on what he should say to those who are afraid to go out because the wolf is out there. One suggestion could be to say that no one has been killed by wolves in this country since it was called Denmark-Norway. I would also have said that there is a real conflict between domestic animals and wolves, and the wolf takes a lot of domestic animals and a lot of sheep. But so do the other predators we have in this country, without the Senter party and others suggesting that one should not have that species in Norwegian nature. We have found a balance between the two things that have been good, which have been the mark, and which left the great majority today. It's a shame that one of you can look away from the latest research, which is summed up in the proposition from the department, but it's a responsibility that the majority of people have to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e856	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e860	First to Aasland: I've never commented on the negotiations, I've commented on the realities of what the majority decides, and there the Central Party believes that the goals and the way they are designed are going to be conflict-provoking in the future. Rotevatn has been able to talk about other people's ruling techniques, but his ruling technique is about saying that I'm saying that we should have wanted other knowledge. I never said that. I never used the term ‘other’ knowledge, I said ‘independent’ knowledge, and I think there is a need in this case. Otherwise, I have to say that the centre party has proposed many measures to reduce the damage potential of a number of predators, not just in the case of wolves, and that is because there are too many livestock being killed. The agreement on predators is not being followed up today in the manner that it should be followed up, in the case of neither yerv, bear or wolf. And finally, to Fredriksen, I just want to say that there is a great distance between the Center Party and SV in this case – about the same distance as there is between Fredriksen and Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e871	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e874	State Council Helgesen stated that there was no basis for granting standing permission for killing within predator-proof fences. That's what's the big advantage of being a Council of State, that you can actually suggest that it becomes a basis of trust. That's also the great advantage of being a member of the legislative assembly, that we can adopt it. So if it's will, it's zero problem. I guarantee it'll get a majority. If the Right and Advance Party come forward with a proposal to provide the basis for the granting of standing breeding permits in predatorproof fences, it will become a majority. Saying that there is no basis for law enforcement is a way of shifting responsibility away. My challenge to Helgesen is: Does Helgesen think it would make sense, when the state has spent a lot of resources, that the predator-proof fences should be granted standing permission for killing? And if he thinks it makes sense, then it becomes the majority for it and we get it fixed. Finally, in the debate, I would like to say that I think it is sad that we are once again having decisions in the Storting that are going to create a lot of conflicts in the future. I believe that we are using environmental protection completely wrong when we say that reintroducing a species that is not endangered is the most important environmental issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e883	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e886	Finally, Ulv is part of Norwegian nature and has always been part of Norwegian nature, and we want to do ours for it to be in the future. I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good basis in the big message. I believe he gives a very good overview. He even gives good advice, which the Greens, the Greens, and the SV have chosen to follow in the proposals that we have made. So to the representative of Aasland, there's no doubt that we went into this to figure out a balance point, and we found that, all parties, including SV and Left. And we went to our party groups to get a continuation at about the level that is today, but with changes. The left's group said yes, and the SV's group said yes. The Right Party, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party said no, because they were going to reduce the number of wolves in Norway, and with a reduction, we obviously could not be involved. In the end, I would like to say that in the east of Oslo, there is also a wolf, and it is a very popular open-air area. It's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e897	I'll just briefly comment on some challenges that have come along. One is from Terje Aasland. To Terje Aasland, I would just like to say that it is clear that a species that is critically threatened by the Norwegian Red List is threatened with extinction in Norwegian nature. You don't get any closer to extinction than to be critically threatened. That should be okay. The second is the question of juveniles. On the question of whether there is a dramatic difference between five-eight family groups and four-six young people, the answer is that there is no dramatic difference, but there is a small trick in the wrong direction – a small and significant trick in the wrong direction. In the position and on the professional basis of the big message that was presented, and later on on the question that I and the committee asked, and that was answered, related to the core question, whether we comply with the Berne Convention, it is very clear that with the common wolf tribe that exists in Sweden and Norway, it would be doubtful to reduce the number of wolves. And then when you do a trick, like the Workers' Party and Terje Aasland, as case rapporteur, in order for the Workers' Party to do in this case, that is, shoot more wolves, that means that you reduce the population in Norway, you do it the fuck that makes us fall over the line that is the Bern Convention. I believe that this was the wrong direction. I respect Terje Aasland's opinion that this is okay. There is no dramatic difference, but it is dramatic how Norway is fulfilling its obligations in international context. But it's clear that Terje Aasland is absolutely right, the littering permit granted to wolves during the harvest that comes comes, comes as a result of choosing not to go for SV, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens' proposals for a moderate increase in what we think we should have from wolf, and it is more consistent with the number we actually have in Norway today. In other words, the big difference is that you continue about the level of the day. This leads to many killing permits being granted, hunting a lot on the wolf and being shot a lot of wolf during the fall, but the little trick in difference, from having today's level, which would be about five-eight family groups, to having four-six young people, is a trick in the wrong direction, and it has been exemplary to the government, as the Secretariat of the Great Britain, where they have been responsible for providing correct information to the Great Britain, to inform the Great Britain about the size of it. Finally, I just have to comment a little bit, because I think it's a little funny with Trygve Magnus Battle Force Vedum, who calls the proposal that the government has made, extraordinarily. But it's a proposal that lies 'pretty much' at the same level as the government he himself was part of, agreed on in the broad wolf settlement we've had up until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e910	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum challenged me as to whether the government wanted to change the basis of the law regarding standing permits for killing. It is true that the government can propose a new basis of jurisdiction, but that should only be done if it would be within the framework of our international commitments. And that's the second point I actually made, namely that it wouldn't be in line with the Bern Convention. In this context, it may be natural to quote from the 2011 Robbery Agreement: «Norway has an obligation under the Berne Convention to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature.» This was all at the back of the game, including the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e920	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e934	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e941	Today, we are considering a proposal from the Central Party on measures to reduce predatory problems for Sami reindeer farming. As in all cases dealing with predators, the Right believes that the policy should be consistent with the 2004 and 2011 predatory game comparisons and within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the two-part objective of having predators as well as grazing animals in Norway. This is agreed by an overall committee. The right also agrees with the Committee that all predator management should be based on scientific and experience-based knowledge, regional governance, respect for property rights and that we should seek to reduce conflicts. Knowledge of management is important, but also knowledge of its implications for grazing and for individuals. Only in the last few days have two reports been made that will be important for the future development of predatory policies. On 1 June, a report was presented on the importance of predatory game populations for agriculture and food production, and on 2 June, a report was presented evaluating the regional predatory wildlife populations. I think both of these reports will be thoroughly reviewed by departments, professional authorities, organisations and politicians in the future. Nor do I ignore the fact that further investigations will be needed, based on findings in the reports, and look forward to the conclusions that will eventually be drawn by the government. This government has followed up all the predators and asked them for clear zone management, which is, of course, the whole basis of administration in Norway. In grazing priority areas, it shall be easy to extract pests. Within predatory priority areas, the threshold shall be much higher. It is important to maintain the principle that responsibility lies with the denominators for determining the priority zones and making the necessary balances between grazing and established stocking targets. The setting addresses several proposals promoted by the Centre Party and partly SV. I expect representatives from these parties to justify the proposals themselves, but I note that none of them will have a majority here in the Chamber, if then nothing else would come up in the debate. In the case of royal eagles, new figures from 2015 show that in the last five years there have been 963 breeding pairs of queens in Norway. The stock is thus good within the Stortinget target set in 2004, of 850-1 200 pairs. The majority of the Committee therefore sees no need to consider a new stock target for queens in Norway. The ‘Midt-Norway project on king eagle as a loss cause for sheep and lamb’ was carried out under the auspices of NINA in Red Sea grazing areas 2014 and 2015. Preliminary conclusions show that as much as 5–6 pst. by the lambs which were released on pasture, was taken by the king's eagle. This is new knowledge, because in the past it was assumed that only 0 to 2.5 pst. the losses could be related to the royal eagle. Considerations are now being made by the government as to whether changes should be made to the administration of the monarchy and the majority of the committee agrees that proposals for amendments may be submitted at the hearing of the ministry. This work is under way, regardless of the case we are dealing with today, and the Contact Committee for Civil Aviation Management, which consists of many different organisations, has been asked to give an opinion. The Committee will follow this with great interest. In areas of particular damage, it is necessary to reduce losses, although it is also important to recognise that the king eagle is a protected species in Norway. A majority of the parties in the Committee believe that a testing scheme should be initiated in some areas with specific stress, bounded by Fosenhalvøya and Troms. It is a prerequisite that such a pilot scheme should be within the framework of the predatory game settlement. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on constructive input and a great deal of new knowledge that has been gained in the course of the debate and recommend that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e967	In the world today, we have two major crises to deal with. One is the climate crisis, and it is the other crisis with loss of biodiversity and endangered species. It was with that reason that in 1968 they chose to peace the king eagle, because they saw that it was a historically low number of nestling pairs, and that something had to be done if you were to have a king eagle in Norway. That's why they made it through St.meld. No 15 for 2003–2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, the first predatory game agreement, which dealt with the administration zones of the monarchy, to a large extent covered by this proposal for a representative. This is especially for one region, because after the 2011 agreement it was agreed that more knowledge was needed because the farmers, especially on the Fosen peninsula, expressed that they suffered great losses of lambs to the king eagle. We've now gained that knowledge, and so we've met the robberies agreement in 2011 that we should have a larger amount of knowledge. On the basis of this, the County of Southern Trondelag has also granted the king-horn's permission to be killed, which has subsequently been suspended by the Directorate, and has subsequently rejected a bedding request. That's part of the reason why the Workers' Party joined in the comment that says we have to look at, and ask the government to send a new wording on the fallacy of the monarch. What's interesting, on the other hand, are the comments that we, because we didn't get good enough answers in the committee, could not join. This is what management practices are all about, and here two new management schemes are being launched for Fosenhalvøya and for Troms. The whole point of the injury prevention system is to take out an eagle — which, after all, is protected in Norway — that has been proven to have caused damage. If you work hard to prove it, you have to continue the project, which we jointly establish, all parties except the Green Party have established that this is a problem that the Committee wants to address. But is there a license hunt you want to open up? Is that quota hunting? What are the administrative practices that you really want? Is this a hidden rematch on the 2004 rapprochement? Today, the NHO Trondelag is clearly heading towards such a licence hunt, for example, as they see an increasing degree of eagle tourism in Trondelag. And just to make it clear: this is not a problem that is linked to the hake, which has been proven by knowledge acquisition to be unleaded, and thus is not a problem. This applies to the queen eagle. So it also has to be distinguished in this case, and I'm glad that the majority of the committee does not choose to accept the proposals that I would characterise as secondary. I would like to think that both the government parties and, for that matter, the Christian People's Party explain what they are putting into this change in administrative practices, and what they see. Do they imagine such a kind of hunting, and thus a fight over the areas and how we manage the king’s eagle today? And are we going to take it up in a whole new predatory game deal, or do they see for themselves to do it over the table, as it's almost suggested here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e982	Some of the proposals contained in this document have already been addressed in the main message on wolves. Furthermore, the Committee refers to document 8:163 S for 2010–2011, point 2.2.8, which says: ‘The necessary measures shall be implemented both within the framework of predator management and reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of South Saami domestic reindeer operation.’;» That's exactly what the majority in the agreement on wolf does, because there will be no expansion of the wolf zone north of Hedmark. On the contrary, the majority of the conciliation takes out Zone 7 so that the level of conflict will be reduced. Furthermore, it is the case that the Storting leadership for a clear zone management has been followed up by the fact that all predators have been asked for the zone divisions to be managed even more clearly. There shall be a low threshold for the collection of pests in priority grazing areas and licensing shall be the main instrument in the stock management of predatory game. Furthermore, damage is being done every year by youives, but it should also be said that keeping the stock low enough has been very challenging. But it is also such that according to the Nature Diversity Act you can make the fall of yours. An authorisation may be granted for the prevention of damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. However, what more recent research shows, through, for example: NINA's project in Middle Norway is that the eagle is a larger predator for sheep and lamb than has been previously detected. That is why a majority wants to continue this project, but also now with a trial project in Troms, where the eagle is gradually a huge challenge for the grazing industry, as the eagle also takes tamrein and calves. The majority are concerned that the king eagle is a peaceful species, but that it is important to have low losses of sheep and domestic animals for eagles, and that full compensation should be provided where grazing animals are lost to the king eagle. The majority ask the Ministry of Climate and Environment to submit, at the hearing, proposals for amendments to the provisions on harmful traps which can contribute targetedly to the reduction of the loss of grazing animals to the royal eagle in areas with a specific damage coverage. The majority of the Committee also asks the Government to set up a pilot scheme for the administration of the royal eagle, a scheme limited to the Fosenhalvøya and Troms. Such a pilot scheme will contribute to valuable knowledge of administrative practices. In conclusion, I see that what I call the urban parties, the Greens, SV and the Left, is not going to support and give priority to the comments that lie here. Clearly, they also want to give priority to predators over business and rural settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1004	In this case, the Committee would point out that the predatory animal policy pursued in Norway is in line with the 2004 and 2011 predatory game comparisons and within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the two-part objective of having predators and grazing animals in Norway. All predator management shall be based on scientific and experience-based knowledge. Furthermore, emphasis shall be placed on regional governance, respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and local communities. It is important to continue working on the objective of reducing conflicts. A particular consideration is to ensure the situation of southern Sami reindeer operations. The previous zone management decision of the Storting has been followed up by all the predatory wildlife subjects. The principle behind the trade in predatory animals in 2004 and 2011 is clearly established. As mentioned in the previous case, when predators are on the agenda, high shoulders and high temperatures become rapidly high. We've had a predatory policy that's worked for decades. It also brings with it some challenges. Among other things, it is gratifying that the population of the royal eagle has taken a strong stand, and that the numbers of populations are within the goal of the Stortinget. We are aware that in parts of the country the eagle is responsible for some loss of sheep and lamb. We therefore support the fact that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is now looking at whether changes should be made to the administration of the royal eagle and have noted that it may be particularly sensible to carry out trials in the framework of the breeding game agreement on the Fosen peninsula and in the Troms, where the royal eagle is on occasion a major challenge for grazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1015	The background to this proposal by the Central Party was the situation of the Sami reindeer industry, in particular the southern Sami reindeer industry, and the challenges they face in terms of the predatory policy. It is regulated, as some have mentioned, in today’s looting game settlements in point 2.2.8 that one should take into account the interests of the Sami population in the looting game management. The problem is that many places experience Sami reindeer management as a combination of several predators, which provides a predatory pressure that is incredibly difficult to handle. In my own state, Southern reindeer drift is at the heart of the bear, it's a big problem for you, and in addition, you're going to have a king eagle problem. Together, the combination of different predators in the same area is a major challenge for the reindeer management environment in the county. This also applies to other counties, including: Finnmark and Hedmark and also further northwards, Troms and Nordland. Our proposal is not just about royalty. It is also about other instruments. Some of the problem we think is that you have failed year after year, you only take out 30-35 pst. of the allowance. This means that it is by no means unproblematic for those who live in those areas when you do not take out the exclusion that you think should be safe to take out. It also means that in the calving areas in the spring you get big problems with yours when the quotas are not removed. The central party therefore believes that new measures need to be implemented in order to have effective governance, measures beyond those put in place by the government, and should, in particular, focus on the southern reindeer industry and the period of the year in which the pure is most vulnerable, namely during the calving period. In the case of royal eagles, there are several who have said that it is a pleasure that the royal eagle population has taken up and now is larger than it has been in many, many years. The administration of the royal eagle was never clarified in connection with the robberies settlement and the debate on the robberies settlement in 2011 and 2004. This does not mean that, in the case of queen eagles, one must not be able to look at a government that can reduce the conflicts between grazing and king eagles, when it is actually proven that the king eagle takes domestic animals – and not only domestic animals, but also reincalves. Then it must be possible to discuss whether one should also have a administration of the king eagle. NINA's project, which has been carried out in Fosen, clearly shows that the king eagle causes significant losses of lambs in the area that was examined, and I think that's reason to believe that this is also the case in other areas of sheep farming, but also in areas where you have reincalving. Therefore, there is a need to address that problem in a much better way than before. The centre party is therefore pleased that a test scheme for the administration of the royal eagle will be in place, and we believe it is fully possible to do so within the framework of today's wild game settlement. We are a little surprised that you want to limit it to Fosenhalvøya and Troms, because I believe that in the case of southern Sami reindeer feeding and the losses you see from reindeer calves each of ours are, for example, The Namdalen is just as vulnerable as the Troms and Fosen are, and should therefore be included in such a scheme. Southern Sami administration is not just Hedmark, which we have discussed earlier in connection with wolf zones. It extends all the way northwards, through both the South and North Trunde layers and up along Helgeland. With that, I would like to address the suggestions in the matter that the Central Party has on its own or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1032	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1035	I would first like to say that there is one thing I fully agree with the Central Party in this matter, and that is that it is important to maintain Sami reindeer. There we have common interests. It is also important for the Left to increase our knowledge of the impact of predatory policies on the reindeer industry. There's no disagreement. As others have pointed out here, the administration we are going to have must be in line with both the rapprochement we have and the international commitments we have – both the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, which we have in Norway. On the other hand, where we disagree with the Central Party, it is when it comes to the proposals. Together with the majority of the Committee, we will point out that there are many processes in progress to gain more knowledge, both on the importance of predators for the reindeer industry and on the farming and grazing industries more generally. In this case, reference is made to a national monitoring programme for tamrein, which started with the aim of monitoring and calculating production and losses in reindeer management as a result of predatory game. The majority also refers to a scientific review of the importance of wild game populations for different parts of agriculture, including Sami reindeer farming — where there has just been a report. We agree that there is no basis for launching a new evaluation of the Sami reindeer industry until the projects already in progress have been completed and evaluated. That is also the whole basis that we need to have a professional basis for the administration we are going to run. It is the responsibility of the Directorate for the Environment, and there is a great responsibility for predators around the country, because we must have the two-sided objective of predator management, that we must have the four large predators, and that we must have grazing, grazing and reindeer farming in Norway. Then we have to find the right balance to achieve these two objectives. So to the king: now from Fredriksen it was again referred to the so-called city parties – Left, Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. It's obviously part of a new rhetoric. First of all, what we're saying about the king eagle is that it's nice that we've increased the population, so it's now at 963 nesting pairs. The entire committee also asks that the project be continued on Fosen and in Troms, so that we get knowledge of royal eagles as pests on grazing animals in place. That is what we want too. Nor are we opposed to changes in the management and possibly in the civil liability rules. But what we're concerned about is that this has to happen within a systematic already in place. Projects are under way here, and professional assessments are being carried out. We shall have respect for the assessments and conclusions that emerge on a professional basis, but on the part of Stortingen to go in and advance those assessments – decide by a note that we should make changes – the Left does not agree that we should do so. Now we have to have the processes that are in progress. I believe that proper recommendations are made on how to handle the royal eagle, and the need to make changes in order to avoid too much damage to the tamrein, by following a process – and not by following a comment without a case-by-case basis in a private proposal from the Central Party in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1048	Later today, the Storting will decide that we are going to halve the number of Hellenic breeding pairs of wolves. We're going to open up more hunting for royalty through local government in a pilot project, where I have a lot of questions to the Council of State about what he really perceives that that means. And certainly my hat the Environment Directorate has sent a proposal to consult that opens up the search for songbirds as solid and blackhearted. Next year, Norway may become the country where we halve the share of Norwegian breeding wolves. We can start shooting royal eagles on a larger scale and songbirds in our forests. There's a reason to ask if there's this that's the green shift that the government's adding up to, or whether it's something else. I expect that I will get a good explanation from the Council of State afterwards. From that side of the case to another: I would say to the representative Marit Arnstad and the Central Party, who has promoted this proposal, that I think it is good that they raise the question, based on the knowledge that now exists, on the type of damage caused by predators. I think it's good that they take this up and want to have a debate on it. That is why we support the proposal of the Centre to have an assessment of the impact of predatory policies on the southern reindeer industry and on the reindeer industry in general, because we should look at what measures can be taken. Then maybe the Center Party and we'll disagree on what measures to target eagles and any predators that are involved. But we're looking at this, because no one could have hurt that we're bringing up knowledge of what we can do to maintain a strong-pressed industry. Then I'm talking about the southern reindeer industry in particular. Let me go on and say that, like Ola Elvestuen, I am very pleased, and I think we have reason to clapp ourselves on our shoulders and say that we made sensible decisions when we were at peace with the queen. We made reasonable decisions and have provided for the administration of the king eagle that means that we reach the objectives of the king eagle and make sure that we have a bunch of king eagles around our country. I think those who call us who are to take care of the king's eagle, for city parties, as the Progress Party does, should think about and see themselves in the mirror. It is the industry in the districts, i.e. the NHO Travel Life, that gives notice that they are at risk of loss and that it is negative and that it creates a negative reputation. In addition, the possibility of using predatory safari is being weakened, in this context royal safari. I have to admit that there are a few things I have experienced more strongly in dealing with predators in wild nature than getting across a thunderstorm heading down towards Gryllefjord on Senja, on the old road across the mountain – which is now in the tunnel because we have provided for racial protection there – and experiencing a royal eagle. Now I can't guarantee that it was a king eagle, maybe it was a oat eagle, but it was an eagle that lighted and looked me deep into the eyes. I think it's good. I have a lot of understanding that this is something that travel life sees the potential. So to my question, the majority write in the setting that they ask the government to launch a pilot project for the administration of the royal eagle in the framework of the predatory settlement, but it's very unclear what this means. The 2004 and 2011 animal comparisons do not allow for licence hunting or exceptional withdrawals from the royal eagle, so it is unclear what kind of administration this is about. That's why I'm asking the Council of State, what does that really mean? What does he think such a pilot project should contain? Should there be a license hunt on the king eagle? Should exceptional off-takes be provided to reduce the loss of tamrein? So what does that mean? Are we talking about withdrawals of 5, 10, 100 royal eagles to reduce the number of domestic animals in common? All of these things are unclear and stand unanswered after Storting's setting, and it would have been all right if the council could tell what he thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1065	I can confirm that for a councillor it also makes a great impression to be stared into the eyes of Heikki Holmås. [[Laughter]] Moreover, with all due respect for the SV, the Left and the Greens, there are a few more people living in the city than these three parties deserve the designation of city parties alone. Right is a city and country party, and is very pleased with it. To the matter: The government is emphasising the conduct of a predatory game policy that is in line with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the 2004 and 2011 wild game likes. This government is pursuing a predatory policy in accordance with our international obligations. Robbery has a natural place in Norwegian nature, and there is agreement that they are not only an important part of the ecosystem, but that they also have a self-value. Wolves, bears, yerves and royal eagles are protected species, and the species wolf, bear, yerves and gloats today have no greater populations than they are actually threatened by extinction in Norway. We therefore have an extra great responsibility to establish an administration that helps the species to continue to live within their borders. At the same time, predatory game is one of several factors affecting Sami domestic domestic operations. It is therefore important that Sami interests in general and reindeer management should have and have an active role in caring for their interests, both in terms of the conservation of predatory game and in ensuring the sustainable development of domestic practices. The pooling and other Sami interests directly affected by a predatory action shall be consulted. Representatives of the Sameting have also been appointed to all surveying game subjects relating to Sami domestic domestic areas. It is challenging to take care of both predators and grazing animals, including not least tamrein. However, I stress that we should work knowledge-based, predictable and have a long-term perspective. Only in this way can we achieve the broadest possible acceptance of the policy pursued. I am pleased that a broad majority of the committee shares the government's assessment of most of the proposals that have been promoted. I also notice that a majority of the committee with a background in the up-to-date population does not consider that there is any basis for considering a new stock target for the king eagle. In recent years, the administration has strengthened efforts to monitor and monitor the royal eagle population and its impact on Sami domestic farming. In the light of the position of the majority of the committee, I will examine and, at the hearing, send a proposal for a pilot scheme for the management of the royal eagle and measures to reduce the loss of the predatory game within the framework of the predatory game settlement. Such a project must be designed in such a way that researchers, grazing users, hunters and administrators can work together to look at different causes of loss of domestic animals and to look at instruments related to both queens and grazing animals that can reduce the number of injuries. We already have some knowledge of this that will provide a valuable basis for further work. There is no entry into the quota or licensing agreement of the king eagle in accordance with today's legislation, but it is possible to apply for a perpetrator's permit to stop an ongoing damage situation. I will now examine in more detail a change in today's claims settlement for the royal eagle that can contribute purposely to the reduction of the loss of grazing animals to the royal eagle in areas of particular damage, and send such a proposal for a regulatory amendment to the hearing. It is also gratifying that the majority of the committee believes that there can be even clearer zone management than today, but that this responsibility lies with regional predators. This is fully consistent with government policy, and it is important that predators follow this up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1097	The Council of State is committed to this pilot scheme, and then my question becomes to the Council of State: What are the most relevant instruments in such a pilot scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1102	Let me first say that the king eagle is a peaceful species, and it is important – as the committee points out – that a project like this is held within the framework of the predatory game settlement and is in accordance with the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. A project relating to a protected species must be designed in such a way that the various actors can work together to address the different causes and the use of instruments. What kind of instruments can this be about, we need to look at. Although it is already clear that there is a large majority here and this is a general attempt, it has to be consulted. It is important to hear the different actors, so that we get the best possible basis for designing a test scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1109	This case, particularly relating to the royal eagle, has arisen because of the rejection at the latest from the County State and the previous approval which the directorate has lifted. Now, in his statement, the Council of State says that he will send a proposal for a change in the practice of harm-reduction at the hearing. Will the Council of State wait with such a pilot scheme until after we have seen the effect of the new harm-reduction scheme, or will he have it at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1114	It is natural when Stortinget asks us to put in place a trial plan, that we undertake the work on it as soon as possible. At the same time, it's important that we get the question heard, and that we balance the different interests here. So that's the way I noticed from the committee, that a majority of us believe that we should keep today's stock targets for royalty. The tests that need to be carried out must then have a transfer value, so that trials can contribute to knowledge that ensures that we can stay within the range target on a national basis. Of course, what comes in the consultation round will also determine how much work will be required to design the trial scheme and when it can come into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1119	Does not the Council of State at all see any harm done and such a new management system for these areas in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1124	I definitely see this in context. What I'm saying is that we want to take up the work as quickly as it can be done, and go to a hearing. Then, on the basis of what we get from hearing opinions, we will do the work that needs to be done to ensure that we have a system that follows up the Storting's intentions and the Storing's decision, while at the same time we are sure that we do not go under today's stock targets for the royal eagle, because the Storing wants to preserve today's stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1129	I just want to ask an initial question: is it at all relevant to consider opening a licence hunt on the king eagle as part of a pilot project?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1134	What we have to do now is go into the process of following up on the decision of the Storting. That means we have to look at the different options and then get this out for consultation. I don't want to say today that one thing or the other is out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1139	It is positive that there should be a testing scheme. I believe that the studies on NINA that they carried out around the major losses have been important. It's not just nature photographers in Flatanger who like financial loss. It can actually also be done by sheep farmers, and it can be done by the reindeer industry. Suffering if you haven't figured out if it's more or less than the 700,000 kroner that the nature photographer in Flatanger talked about, it might also be significant. My question really depends on why one has chosen just Troms and Fosen. In Namdalen, an area is strongly characterised, and it is a central area of the southern Sami reindeer industry. There lives the southern Sami reindeer industry with both bear and yerv and now also with royal eagle. Why can they not also be included in such an experimental scheme? That is the big question, because they may be more affected than many in the other two areas mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1146	From the government's side, we're going to deal with what we're asked for from the Storting. So there's tests in the Fozen and in the Troms. As I see it, one test shall be started with the queen and herd in Fozen and one in Troms. We have a project in Middle Norway that has studied royal eagle as a loss cause for sheep and lamb. It ended in 2015. As far as I know, there has not been any similar studies in Troms in the past. This will be a whole new field of study. That's what we're dealing with. Then the question of why Namdalen was not included is addressed to those who have been involved in the Committee's discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1154	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås receives a reply. Depending on the size of the lots, the centre lot should have two possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1157	That's very good, because it gives me a chance to follow up. The government platform states that predators are to be grounded. It could be said that the predator agreement did not play such a big role for the parties in the previous round when we discussed wolves, but we are still on the predatory settlement, tied up with the management of other stocks of predators. In this case, an experimental system is opened up, and it is pushed through by a majority, but not by all the parties behind the predatory settlement. My question then is: will the Council of State try to ensure that the pilot scheme that is being developed is a pilot scheme that will be sought to discuss with all the parties that formed the predatory agreement in 2004 and 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1166	It is as the Committee points out that the project to which it will be addressed is to be held within the framework of the predatory agreement and is in accordance with the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. It will also be a completely natural starting point for the government. It's important when this is a project that relates to a peaceful species, that we design it in a way that includes as much as possible of the central actors. Because this is an attempt of a general nature — even in the case of a limited area — it has to be consulted. That means we're going to get input from the most concerned central agencies. But as we stick to the framework for the predatory settlement, we consider it to be respected. This means, among other things: that we should not undertake trials that contribute to the management of ourselves above or below the stock target.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1171	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1176	The issue of reindeer management is a topic that deserves our attention, as it is important for the framework conditions for the sustainable development of the industry in the future. It is not only the direct loss of animals, and especially of mammals, which is the challenge, but also the indirect loss by the disappearance of large proportions of the female animals, which one needs to re-emphasize. In this way, the individual reindeer owner, or sheep owner for that part, cannot carry out the necessary and desirable breeding work. For this reason, an unimproved animal material, which is necessary to produce better and more efficiently, does not have the option to choose the animals that grow best, are at least sick, are the best parents, and come home from grazing after the end of the grazing season. When predators take out important breeding material, it is not the farmer or the reindeer who determines the livestock, but the predators. I feel confident that such a situation would not be accepted in other industries. That is why I am pleased that one in this matter four queens, as an increasingly important source of predatory losses, attention. In the agreement on predators, it says: ‘Congealers must be included in the surveillance programme in line with the other predatory species and screening must be completed as soon as possible.’ [[...]] The robber agreement also points to the need for new knowledge about royal eagles as pests on grazing animals. That's what we've got through the Middle Norway project on Fosen, where lambs have been radio-labelled, so that one has the opportunity to find cadavers and try to find the cause of the death. This project is important to continue, so that we get even more knowledge about eagles as damage. The project shows that there is a large number of losses that a very likely person can assume is indirectly caused by eagles. Eagles can scare lambs and calve away from their mothers. The small and weak animals do not get vital breast milk, become sick and die. In addition, we see that there are abnormally many lambs who are exposed to accidents – as if they have been frightened. Reports from farmers tell, and last of all today in the NRK Trundellag, that eagle takes lamb on the inward leg. It is therefore important that we keep an eye on the development of the population, and that one is given the opportunity to take out harms. That's why I'm glad that someone will now look at changed administration of the king eagle. We have the task of facilitating the development within which the reindeer industry and other grazing industries develop. We do that best with good knowledge and effective management, which we are facilitating with the case here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1194	Through the debates in previous cases, we have heard a lot about the satisfaction of the bulk of the population with their predatory policies. It is a satisfaction that does not reach far beyond these four walls – at least not my home area. I think most people here are aware of that, but it's a shame that too many magnificence representatives don't want to listen to the experiences they have, those who actually live in these predatory areas. Nor in this case, where, as proposers, we ask the Stortinget to ensure that a number of measures are put in place by the government to ensure the conditions for the continuation of South Saami domestic operations, it is particularly important to have. I think that's sad. There is a consensus that we should facilitate Sami domestic operations, but there are zero measures. The Committee points out in its recommendation that the predatory policy pursued in Norway should be in line with the predatory game agreement reached by the Stortinget and that it should be within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the two-part objective of having predators and grazing animals in Norway. The dilemma is that the objective of having room for both predators and grazing animals is not particularly achievable as long as the animals share the same areas. This experience the reindeer industry, and this experience those engaged in active land grazing, as the southern Sami industry. We refer to international conventions on the requirements to maintain a predatory stock, but we are also subject to international conventions on the protection of indigenous peoples' rights, including the possibility of continuing Sami reindeer farming. I am disappointed that the bulk of the population is expressed in such vague terms when they mention our responsibility for the reindeer industry, and in the mention of the measures that could have contributed to this. I also notice that it has become almost a habit to carefully demonstrate that we are using considerable resources over the state budget to prevent damage to domestic animals and domestic animals and to mitigate conflicts. That's the same thing in the manufacture here. It would have been much more credible if the majority had problematised the lack of consistency between appropriations and reduced predatory problems. As proposers, we have made many proposals that would have systematicised the experience of predatory policies. We have also proposed concrete measures that are strongly sought in the reindeer industry. It is good that measures are promoted in relation to the queen of Fosen and Troms, but this is a problem all the way down to the Five. Finally, I must say that I agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås in one thing – hunting songbirds is a little topical. They constitute, to my knowledge, no threat neither to domestic animals nor to other grazing animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1211	I just felt the need to clear up a little after the debate on exactly the questions that went on the trial scheme. On my first question, the Council of State would not rule out the possibility of licensing a queen, and in answer to my second question, he said it was time-ready – that is. he did not correctly use the term ‘clock-ready’ – that he was to stay within the predatory agreement and that it was a premise. Since it is a premise from the Council of State, and since it is such that there is no opening for either exceptional withdrawals or licence hunts on the queen of the predatory settlement, I assume that the Council of State – since he will stick to the agreement on predators – will not submit to the hearing a proposal involving any of the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1230	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1237	Then we go over to a matter that at least there is something more agreement about. These relate to changes to the Market Act and to compensation rules under it. The Marka Act entered into force in 2009 and Section 11 provides for protection of natural areas for outdoor purposes, which is something new, and on which there has also been some discussion. However, what this case is about is that the protection provisions of Section 11 of the Land Law are very similar to the protection provisions for nature reserves in the Nature Diversity Act in terms of the level of restrictions and consequences for landowners. The proposal is to be entitled to compensation under the law on the land, as is the case when it is protected under the law on biodiversity. It is a reality that since the Land Act came into force – although the County of Oslo and Akershus have initiated protection processes for 28 areas – only four areas are protected by law and where the purpose is open-air life. For these four areas this was done in the autumn of 2013, by the then City Council for Environment and Transport, namely myself. The four areas are Schännungsåsen, Godbecken, Hauktjern and Spinneren. After that, 8 of the 28 sites have been protected anyway, but then they are protected under the Nature Diversity Act, as a nature reserve. But it creates a number of problems, because it is clear that nature reserves are aimed at a much more stringent protection than for the purpose of outdoor life, which was the purpose of the law on the land. What this has done is that, where protected by the Nature Diversity Act, many adaptations to protective provisions have been required to take account of outdoor life and sport. There is an overall committee in favour of making this change – that it should also be possible to obtain compensation when it is protected by the law of the market, where the purpose is open-air life. This is of great importance to the landowner. If we look at Oslo Municipality's property that's protected, it's probably worth about 35 million. kr, and in the case of course Oslo Municipality wants the change to be applied retroactively. It does not support either the Left or any others in the Committee. But I have to say that it is a thought-seeker, which you might want to raise later, that the only actor who has been willing to follow the protection according to the purpose of the law is the actor and the owner who ends up not getting any compensation. At least from the Left side, we will consider whether Oslo should, however, be given discretionary compensation, which does not have its basis in law, but on the basis of a reasonable consideration. That's something we should be looking at in the future. The matter as such is considered quite uncontroversial. It will result in more areas being replaced for outdoor purposes. It could be replaced. Several landowners will be interested that it will be a protection. I think that the disagreement is probably more about whether it is in itself right to protect for outdoor purposes or whether there are only natural qualities that should be the basis for national protection. I'm not going into that discussion right now. I'm dealing with the Marka Act being there. It has a protection purpose for open-air purposes. When it does, we support what is proposed by the government, that then landowners should also receive the same compensation under the law on land as under the law on biodiversity, since the restrictions on protection are very similar to those in force under the law on biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1250	This is a matter of fundamental importance, much more important than what the setting provides. There is a question of the basis for the protection of forests and of the grounds for substitution. There is no overall committee behind the configuration. The centre party is going to vote against the proposal. What's going to be completely understated in the setting is that here one goes away from what's agreed otherwise, that logging out of use, i.e. forest protection, is going to be done in a scientific and verifiable way. That's what's at the heart of it all. The use of the Nature Diversity Act means that one must be able to prove in a verifiable way that rare plants, animals or habitat types are to be protected and that the plants, animals or nature types are to be protected in the sense that they are to be protected, not just today, but for all future. What we're talking about here is the protection under the Marka Act, where there are no requirements for professional criteria and scientific evidence. It's a good idea, and that's what the nature protection movement has been like: we have to get this kind of protection, because then we get away from the Latin Force. The Latin equivalent is understood as a release to prove, through the Latin names of the different plants, that it is the plants or animals to be protected. That is why this is a very important matter in principle. What constitutes the basis for the emergence of that type of protection is the way in which forest management operates in the urban areas. As the economy in forestry is developing today, it is so economically under pressure that it is pressing for more and more forest-based practices. There are multi-use reasons that are the healthy management strategy for forest use, where one takes care of both animal and plant life and outdoor life, but this must mean that there is an economy and a care that allows it to be implemented. It is the big thing that should have been up and forth, and where there should be a clear and strong alliance between the interests of the open air, which will see that the forest is being cut in a way that respects the need for multifunctional use, while providing an economic basis for the forest owners who do. That debate is completely absent. We know that there are many interests, not least within the ranks of the Federation of Nature Conservation, who want to get markalovers not only in Oslo-marka, which include the provinces of Oslo, Akershus, Oppland and Buskerud, but also associated landmarks around other cities and agglomerations in Norway. It is a completely misguided strategy, in the opinion of the Centre Party. We need to safeguard the interests of outdoors for the sake of multifunctionality, and then we need to ensure the protection of the rare occurrences by means of the Nature Diversity Act. That's where the nucleus lies. The Nature Diversity Act provides a basis for this. Then it's pretty strong to learn that many people talk about a scientific basis for protection, and then one comes to this area, where it's not at all about it. In my opinion, this cannot continue, because it is clear that when protection under the law on land protection can be provided in practice as under the law on biodiversity, it will be much easier to go to a law on land protection, because there is no requirement for evidence. It will erode the whole basis for and the opening up of protection in Norway if one goes into that point. We're going to be aware that the proposal that just got a majority here in the Chamber, in 10 pst. the protection of coniferous forests, as far as the Law on Natural Diversity is concerned, while what we are talking about now, is an addition to the law on the land. There are many people who want to protect 1 pst in the field. of the area. There are no restrictions on what is now adopted, and I believe that there will be a need for protection around all major cities around Norway. We're on the wrong track. We have to base science on protection. That's the Center Party's position, and here we want to be in alliance with the value conservatives in the forest management, along with the most powerful scientific environments. It provides a basis for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1267	I have put forward a bill that means that forest owners who get their forest protection as an open-air area under the law of the land are compensated in the same way as forest owners who get their forest protection as a nature reserve under the Nature Diversity Act. The Marka Act § 11 provides for a special type of protection, namely protection as an open-air area. The condition for the protection of such areas is that, due to their natural experience, they have specific qualities in the open air. The purpose of protection is open-air and natural experience and is therefore different from the protection provisions for territorial protection under the Nature Diversity Act. The main consequence of such protection is that it protects the areas from being hoarded. So far, four such areas are protected. It happened in 2013: Godbecken, above Sognsvån, Schännungsåsen, Hauktjern in Østmarka and Spinneren, south of Östmarka. All areas are owned by the Municipality of Oslo. The fact that there are no more is due, in particular, to the provision of compensation by the Marka Act. Until now, the law on the land has been designed in such a way that economic losses resulting from protection such as the open-air area can only be required to be replaced by ‘in accordance with general legal principles’, as stated in the law. This is a reference to the rule on compensation for available regulation developed through case law, which is the general rule on compensation for available regulation in Norwegian law. The threshold for compensation under this provision is high and means in practice that forest owners will not be compensated for areas protected as open-air areas. This has made it difficult to apply the law on land in order to protect open-air areas. We have, as we know, a practice and a desire for the protection of forests to be voluntary. In the case of protection under the Nature Diversity Act, the landowner has, according to § 50, a stronger claim for compensation from the State than that of the general rule mentioned above. If the protection results in a restriction on the current use, full compensation is provided by the State. This provision for compensation constitutes a unique exception to the general rule of Norwegian law on compensation in the event of supply adjustments. In practice, the level of restriction of a landowner for a protected open-air area will most often be at about the same level as for a nature reserve. There are drifting timbers that are usually the most important economic resource to link, both in outdoor areas and in nature reserves. This argues that the compensation rules should be the same. This change will make it possible in practice to apply the provision on outdoor protection under the law of the land in areas where this form of protection is better suited than nature reserve protection. This is important for example: in the interests of sport and outdoor life, because the purpose of the protection is different. In particular, the sports organisations and the partially open-air organisations have called for a change in the provision of compensation in the Landa Act. I'm sure this is a law change that will be well received by the vast majority, including the landowners, if not by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1285	The aim of the amendment is that one should be able to use the Land Act for more adventure forest protection, i.e. forest protection, to deforestation without any professional basis. I would like to ask a simple question to the Council of State: What is, at the discretion of the Council of State, an adventure forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1292	I have to admit, I'm a little in doubt about what a fairy-tale forest is. There's a lot of forest in folk adventures and other adventures, and it's clear that you can have an adventurous experience in the woods, but what's up here is that this is an opportunity to protect areas with an outdoor purpose. It is quite right that you do not have the same criteria as under the Nature Diversity Act, where it is protection for other purposes. Both parts are forest protection, but the forest is a resource for both nature diversity and people's recreation and outdoor life, and therefore it is a good idea to allow protection for sports and outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1297	We're now at the core, that the Council of State is in doubt about what an adventure forest is. That's a wise answer. Some see adventures to the north; others see them to the south. At the same time, we agree that one can have fairytale experiences in the forest, without either the area or the experiences being part of a law. The core of the Council's response is open-air. It is open-air forestry for all over the country. It is open-air throughout the country in terms of safeguarding the interests of the public. My next question is: Where can one not use open-air life as an argument for this protection, according to the Council of State's principle view, when talking about outdoor purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1306	The purpose of outdoor life cannot be an independent basis for protection under the Nature Diversity Act, for example: I understand the question from the representative Lundtigen that he is anxious for a political or legal infective effect in this extension of access to compensation. That risk exists, but is quite limited. The protection provision in paragraph 11 of the Marka Act is equal to the protection provision in the Nature Diversity Act with regard to the level and consistency of the restriction, because it is driftingly drained to a large extent. But the conditions are different, and that is why I find it difficult to explain the difference in the level of compensation between these different protective provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1311	I agree that the level of restriction in many respects is the same, whether it is under the Nature Diversity Act or the Marka Act. But the fundamental difference is that a protection under the Nature Diversity Act is scientifically documented, it is verifiable, there is a set of instruments put in place to realise that the purpose is being safeguarded for all future. While what we're talking about here is something completely different, because it's protection by something undefined, and the undefined thing is to take care of the outdoor interests, but it's a purpose that you have around all the cities. And my next question is, what's the reason why not introduce a corresponding law of law around e.g. The drama or Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1317	The fact that we have a law on marks has a very peculiar history. Now we have a law on land, and it lays down conditions for the protection of areas with natural experience, and because of it has special qualities for outdoor life. It's not so indefinable. It's true that this is the mark, but it's no more indefinable than many hundreds of thousands of Norwegians enjoying this most definite experience every week. Outdoors and natural experiences are an important resource and an important value, and then we have to live with the fact that there are completely different protection provisions than for area protection under the Nature Diversity Act, but when the consequences of the protection are more or less the same, there is every reason that the compensation rules are also similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1322	I listen very carefully to what the council here says, but there is no particular need for adventure forest protection in Oslo other than that there are more people living in the surrounding area than there are elsewhere. But every person's need to experience adventures, or to experience forestry that ensures the interests of outdoor life, is not different. So the big paradox is why the Right here adds up to a policy that belongs to the most extreme forces of nature protection, which goes away from the scientifically verifiable nature protection, how the Right can join that fundamental vision of government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1332	I have to repeat that the protection under the Marka Act is a special type of protection. It is not nature conservation as a nature reserve; it is protected as an open-air area. Then there are other criteria that apply. It is no more extreme than the fact that the Marka Act is a common commodity between multiple lots and nothing belonging to the lot Right. But what we're saying is that when the consequences of protection are the same, it's natural that the compensation provisions for those who agree to protection are also similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1337	The representative Lundtigen has a point, which I believe is also agreed by the State Council of Helgesen, namely that it is special with the mark and the protection of open-air life in the field that we have the Marka Act, and that is what lies there. Lundtigen believes that there is too little science around the protection, so I ask the Council of State: What kind of guidelines does he think should be related to protection under the law of the land? Is the universal guidelines, which he believes have a universal and verifiable design?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1344	Thus, as mentioned above, the condition of protection is that there are areas with natural experience that provide special qualities for outdoor life. When the government protected areas like nature reserves in the spring of 2015, we had a thorough dialogue with sports and outdoor organisations about the rules that would apply to the use of these areas for sports and outdoor activities. The final provisions for the protection of these reserves show that the Nature Diversity Act provides a good space for action to take account of sports and outdoor activities, which can be continued mainly in the protected nature reserves as before without an application. This applies then to the protection under the Nature Diversity Act and gives a good argument that you can protect under the Nature Diversity Act and provide good outdoor life results elsewhere. In terms of terms and conditions for the protection purposes of outdoor life and natural experience, it is again different on the Criterion side, but the results are largely the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1349	I thank you for your answer. What is well the follow-up question, which was also addressed by the representative Lundtegen, is when we protect to preserve the natural experience. I fully agree with the Council of State that when you protect by the law on natural diversity, you get a bunch of positive things on the purchase, so to speak, among other things. natural experiences. That's part of the reason I was a follower of a 10 pst. goal. But when we protect by the law of the Marka, is it such that the Council of State perceives that we have crystal clear, verifiable guidelines for what's going on about natural experiences, or does the Council of State think that there's an area where it would be wise or sensible to look into whether there's a need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1354	It is natural that when protected by natural experience and outdoor qualities, the experience of operators in the open air, not least the outdoor organisations, will be of great importance, and that it will be somewhat less objective, which the representative Lundtigen was also involved in, than protection according to criteria managed by natural and environmental authorities. However, it will not be new in legislative practice to have standards that can be interpreted and applied in different ways from law to law. A very important consideration, which is also reflected in the news of outdoor life being treated in Stortinget, is the great need for open-air areas near the major cities. That's actually a starting point for the law on marks. The criteria may have less sharp edges than in the Nature Diversity Act, but their purpose is therefore very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1359	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1364	I think I should have a little comment. I think the debate that Lundtigen addresses is interesting, but there's something about this intense commitment, because when we look at the Marka Act, this was, after all, a proposal made by the Red-Green Government, in which the Senter Party sat. There were many back in 2009 who had critical comments on the Marka Act, both on how it red tapes many simple processes and actions you can do in the marketplace, and on how it shifts so much power. Not only is it a question of being able to say no to projects, which could also be done in the past with the old rules on land, but it also shifts power from local authorities to say yes to projects in the Ministry of the Environment at that time. This has resulted in improvements in the fields, for example: on the south bank, which is larger than the municipality of Oslo would ever have accepted, where one would have checked with the law on land to expand more. Nor did the relationship between the priority objective of a protected area under the Nature Diversity Act, such as landscape protection areas, or under the Land Act be clarified at the time. You have things that are unclear in the Marka Act. All of this was pointed out by the Municipality of Oslo at the time and was part of the debate, without any changes. I think it's an interesting discussion to be able to protect for purposes other than the pure nature values. I even agree – when it comes to it – that you can set aside areas for outdoor life, but it is not really the same way of protecting. If there is protection, the natural values shall be taken into account. But when that is said, this law on land has now been adopted, and for landowners who get their areas tied up – and this is also about volunteering here, as it is under the Nature Diversity Act – I think it is quite reasonable that since it gives the same restrictions, you should get the same compensation as you do under the Nature Diversity Act. If you disagree with that, the whole law you have to look at whether you want to change, not that there is something wrong with getting compensation as a landowner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1373	I would like to thank the representative Elvesuen for addressing the question – as one of the few – for this issue is much more important than that. The core of it is that any coniferous protection means taking the area out of production, taking it out of use. Then there's a question of what the purpose of taking it out of production is. If the purpose is not clearly defined, it is impossible to verify whether the purpose is being pursued. And further, if the objective is not clearly defined, it is very difficult to ensure that the development of the area is in line with the purpose, and it is very difficult to ensure that long-term management of the area according to the purpose when the purpose is unclear. So we're at the heart of what's an important part of nature protection: when one takes an area out of production, it has to be very clearly defined, so that one can ensure that those values are preserved forever. So what we're in here is an adventure forest. One can discuss what's in it, but it's at least in that there's a type of forest where there's been little activity and little human influence. One could say that in order for an area of nature protection to be defined as an adventure forest, it must have little human activity in it. That was also the reason why, when you got the law on the land with the change in the law that you could protect an adventure forest for outdoor purposes, it was basically because there would be little traffic in the area. Thus, one came right away in conflict with, among other things, skiing in winter in that area. The whole core of it was that what is quality is qualities that are guaranteed if there are no people there. It's going to be very hard to make sure, because here you're adding that there's going to be something special that's going to attract people, at the same time as you don't want people into it. When the Council of State says it's somewhat less objective, it's a statement that doesn't have coverage. There are no objective criteria here, and further progress should be made by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1397	There is a broad consensus within the Committee on how to comment on this management report. Let me begin by saying that it is very valuable that, some time after a reform has been launched, one looks at whether it also corresponds to the expectations and assumptions that the Storing has in its time agreed on, and even based upon, once they have adopted the reform. If we go back a little bit, you'll remember that the Storting in connection with the treatment of Prop. 91 L for 2010–2011 saw, in particular, that this interaction reform would reduce the growth in the use of hospital services, by providing a greater proportion of healthcare services, with equal quality or better quality, i.e. the provision of health services. also a higher cost-effectiveness, through more integrated and coordinated services for patients and users. There were also a few so - called grips in this regard. It was the introduction of three new principles for organisation from 1 January 2012: first, municipal responsibility for patients who are ready to print, second, municipal obligation from 2016 to provide daily subsistence for patients in need of immediate assistance and third, municipal co-financing. This is how the survey item changes slightly as it is examined, so you will see it quite shortly after seeing the third element realized on a full scale, namely municipal duty from 2016 to offer daily stays to patients with a need for immediate help. Then, relatively early, the idea of municipal co-financing has also been ignored. It really means that there is a slightly different organisation and a slightly different reform than the one the Biggest has adopted, which is now being evaluated, and that it presents some methodological challenges. Nevertheless, the Committee feels that there are many interesting findings in the report, based on the assumptions I mentioned. However, a majority of the committee, except for one member, would point out that, when significant preconditions for the reform have changed quite recently, there will be no basis for assessing whether the interaction reform is working properly, as the current model has been modified – the closure of municipal co-financing, which would in particular stimulate preventive public health work in the municipalities and, as I mentioned, immediate daily help. And then you've also looked at the user statements that have been collected. The local authorities have been asked how to look at the reform from their point of view, and they have asked the local authorities how to look at the reform from their point of view. Then we can say that we have noticed that approx. 60 pst. by the municipalities, they believe that in some, large or to a very large extent, they have established several short-term sites after the implementation of the interaction reform. This is also supported by KOSTRA numbers, which show that about 60 pst. by municipalities, the number of short-term places in hospitals has increased since the introduction of the interaction reform. A majority of municipalities have to a small or very small extent established several reinforced short-term, rehabilitation or care centres. The Committee also took note – and it is a unanimous committee – of the 90 pst. the municipalities indicate that they have to a small or very small extent created more long-term places in hospitals after the introduction of the reform. Similarly, the Committee has confirmed that several health firms indicate that many municipalities need to strengthen the supply of patients who are too sick to be at home but too healthy to be hospitalised. It is precisely this transitional regime that poses challenges. If we stick to the findings of the management report, there is cause for concern when half of health businesses experience that municipalities have built up little healthcare that has helped relieve them in the period following the introduction of the reform. It is important to clarify whether this is a picture of a transition process in which offers are gradually falling into place or whether a lasting phenomenon is involved. We expect the department to follow developments closely in this respect. We have also noted, with regard to the Health Directorate's annual reports, that the review of the National Audit Office for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 showed that the Ministry has received little information on the impact of key instruments through the annual reports in the first two years. In the 2014 annual report, the directorate of the management parameters reports the number of renovations, the number of hospitalisations/situation daily services in municipalities, and according to the directorate, the amount of renovations increased by almost 2 percentage points from 2012 to 2014. If you don't just look at percentage points, but the rate rise, it goes from 17.7 pst. up to 19.5 pst. We have found in our consideration of the matter that the frequency of cleaning will be regarded as a central and rather objective measure of quality, and that an increase in the frequency of the order of magnitude that I can record here provides a basis for concern. Finally, I would like to point out that the conclusion of the management audit report that government authorities do not have sufficient information on the quality of municipal care services is a lack that could have been expected to have been remedied at an earlier stage. Although the instruments affect the provision of services to municipalities, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has received little information on how the quality of the community health service has developed after the introduction of the reform. The Health Directorate was commissioned in 2013 to develop quality indicators in order to better measure the quality of healthcare, but this work does not seem to have produced concrete results, so we are expecting them to be put in place. It is clear that, if these criteria have not been developed, the possibility of responsible State authorities following the development of the quality of municipal health care can be weakened. I will end by estimating a little bit of the tone that we had during the review of the Committee, that we are very pleased that the Riksrevision has taken up this reform for a critical review. There's a lot of learning in this. At the same time, we are constantly reminded that there are differences in the assumptions we have here in the hall, where you almost assume a one-to-one relationship between what we make of plans and what is being implemented. The reality is often more contentious than this, and then, of course, the best way to deal with it, to act on the basis of new knowledge and, if necessary, to adjust the course as well. I guess that's also what we sensed happened, by being willing to modify a few of the main steps, or one of the main steps, when the interaction reform was adopted here in the hall. Moreover, I believe that where there has been a minority in the Committee, they will be able to make an excellent presentation of their particular points in the matter. But otherwise, there is quite a consensus on the main lines in this attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1423	I can first refer to the rapporteur's statement. As he quite rightly says, there has been a thorough review of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and, in general, a broad consensus has been reached on some important conclusions. The nature of the matter is nevertheless such, because it is a very important matter for the population, that I, in the case of the Workers' Party, go through a number of reasonings relating to the present position. The management report we have now received from the National Audit Office is the first important feedback on the achievement of the health policy objectives behind the interaction reform. And that's an important thing. That is an important issue, because the objective of the reform was to ensure the sustainable development of the health and care sector and to contribute to more efficient use of resources. It was a co-ordinated magnification that ended up on this overall goal. As the rapporteur said, when the reform was adopted in 2010, the background was a presumption that many patients were treated in hospitals when the offer could instead be given in a better and more cost-effective way in the municipalities. The reform reaffirmed the overall objective of reducing social health inequalities in the population and of providing an equivalent level of provision and equal access to healthcare. The reform was then referred to as a policy reform in which the instruments had to be continuously evaluated against the objectives. It is important to have a genuine political will to assess, and, if necessary, to change the instruments and measures as needed as we become aware of the development and impact of the reform in services. The reform took the view that the expected growth in the needs of an overall healthcare system should as far as possible find its solution in the municipalities and that a greater proportion of the resource growth in the health sector must come there in the coming years. Specific consideration was given to the fact that the growth of medical resources would mainly come in municipalities to meet increased needs and help to ensure better time for the patient and strengthen general medical public tasks. The intentions and main challenges of the inter-operation reform are and were both correct and necessary. An increased commitment to community health services, better prevention and better interaction remains a key challenge in healthcare. In order to ensure the sustainability of future healthcare provision and to reduce disease and health inequalities in the population, it is necessary that the implementation of the interaction reform is effectively successful. The basic idea of the interaction reform is that everyone should receive the treatment, care and follow-up needed, in the right place and in the right time. The main idea of the Stoltenberg II government in implementing the reform was that we had to expand the health service in the municipalities. The National Audit Office's report is therefore not a pleasant reading at this point. And there should be a strong warning to the Minister of Health and his Department, who is responsible for the follow-up to the reform. The Labour Party is part of the majority in the vote which considers that the Riksrevision findings are serious and that the Riksrevision recommendations must be actively followed up by the government. Furthermore, the Workers' Party and the Centre are of the opinion that the government's winding up of the municipal co-financing, which was correctly pointed out by the case-rapporteur, was a step in the wrong direction. He didn't say that, but I'm saying it. By transferring 5.7 billion. kr from the municipal framework to the hospital framework in 2015 removed the government's intention to think about prevention and to build up the offer more closely where people live. We have been surprised that such a major change was made, all the time that had not been taken, as the rapporteur said, to reap sufficient experience from such an allocation. Co-financing was primarily designed to strengthen the prevention and health promotion of municipalities, so that possible effects on specific lifestyle diseases, such as coal, diabetes, heart, car and lung diseases, could be seen in the next instance. Now the evaluation of the instruments is not completed in the interaction reform, and the impact of the reform is more difficult to measure. It is also worth noting that the government's grip on this point has caused several municipalities, which had made a very good effort, to be deprived of their reward. This treats the Working Party as unlucky. The majority of the Committee has also noted, as the rapporteur said, with regard to the remaining main action in the reform, namely the creation of an immediate daily community service, that a majority of health care establishments report that the OHD offer has so far not contributed to reducing the number of hospital emergencies. None of the health establishments has significantly reduced their capacity in their emergency reception afterwards. Furthermore, the majority have taken note of the assessment that caregivers and medical practitioners are important prerequisites for the functioning of the ØHD. The report shows that probably 40 pst. the decision-makers consider that lack of knowledge of the treatments carried out is the reason why they do not refer to the offer. Around the same number consider that the offer is not adapted to the needs of the inhabitants. This of course gives cause for concern. The Workers' Party believes this is a clear signal to the responsible Minister and urges the Council of State to take this with it when the Committee's investigation is to be followed up. It is clear from the statement that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, considers it serious when the Riksrevision so clearly points out that the capacity of the Municipal Health Service has been strengthened to a small extent. This is fundamentally contrary to the stated objectives of the reform and must lead to changes and adjustments to the measures. Among other things, it is alarming when it is signaled that there has been a greater difficulty in getting sicker places, that this applies to both short-term and long-term places, and that the reform has not led to a significant increase in the number of year-old jobs in the home or in the hospital. We also point to the clear objective of the interaction reform that increases in year-on-year work should come in the municipalities. It turns out to be about the same, not bigger for the municipalities, as the reform put it. Half of the municipalities also report lack of nursing care, and the majority of the municipalities say that they have only limitedly strengthened the competence of employees through continuing or continuing training. Then, of course, it is alarming that the Right has run from several of its promises to strengthen continuing training for this particular group. They also recently voted on a Document 8 proposal from the Workers' Party on continuing training for nurses. We notice this in this context. The Labour Party agrees with the National Audit Office’s assessment of the need to follow developments closely, both in terms of whether patients are transferred too quickly to municipalities and in terms of the ability of municipalities to receive patients in a proper manner. I am referring to the fact that the legal requirement to conclude cooperation agreements between the primary and specialist health services was intended to ensure comprehensive and coordinated services for the patient and predictability of the municipalities against the health companies, and that many municipalities believe they clarify the division of tasks and responsibilities, especially for somatic patients. The statutory cooperation agreements are an important step, but the Riksrevision report shows that they need to be improved, developed and not least respected. In particular, the area of ‘information’ needs to be improved, as half of the municipalities view the lack of information as a major problem. There is information about drugs, but also about the level of function. Lack of information on the patient could undermine the ability of the municipality to provide good and adapted services for the patient in the municipality. Lack of information and poor cooperation between administrative levels clearly pose a risk to patient safety, according to the Riksrevision. That's a serious word. Another objective of the interaction reform was that a large part of the patient’s course should take place in the municipalities, including rehabilitation. The National Audit Office’s report states that a majority of municipalities have, to a small extent or to a very small extent, established rehabilitation sites. Only about half of the municipalities report offering day-to-day rehabilitation in their homes and day-to-day care. A good rehabilitation service is important to reduce the need for other health and care services. It is worth taking these references from the Riksrevision, especially in the light of the fact that we are now waiting for an escalating plan for the rehabilitation field. The final note points out that the Council of State should have clearly clarified how the Ministry will follow up the Riksrevision's comments and recommendations. Reference is made to the fact that the Council of State, inter alia: has not commented on whether the Ministry will assess whether it has economic instruments that contribute to the use of municipal help-day services in line with its intention or how the quality of the offer will be further explored. Nor can the Council of State adequately respond to the resolution of the cooperation problems identified in many ways. The National Audit Office calls for concrete action from the Ministry at this point. The Labour Party for its part agrees to this, in addition to all the National Audit Office's recommendations, and assumes that the Council of State and the Ministry are following them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1469	At the right time and at the right level, services are the main principle of the interaction reform. Better interaction across different sectors and levels is a crucial tool. The reform must be systematically followed up with the assessment of resource allocations. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the concrete division of labour must be able to be adapted and varied according to different assumptions and travel distances. The interaction reform has many good intentions and actions. The aim is to provide more seamless healthcare and better use of healthcare in society. The idea that prevention is better than treatment, and that treatment as close as possible to the patient is the best resource use, is an important basis for funding healthcare in the future. However, the reform has not taken into account the need to finance both hospital treatment and the building-up of municipal services, as well as both prevention, rehabilitation and treatment. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important that the interaction reform is a binding quality reform, which must be followed up with real cost calculations. When transferring services from the specialist health service to the municipality, it is important that the quality of the offer is not reduced. Unfortunately, it may seem that there is some of this that is happening too much and that we can see documented in the National Audit Office's report. Different relief measures across sectors need to cooperate more closely on good arrangements for individuals, whether individuals are physically or mentally ill. The national audit has examined the extent to which key assumptions for achieving the objectives are in place. We are talking about the prerequisites for better use of resources and better quality services. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: looking at the provision of services in municipalities, competence and training, cooperation and information exchange. The report contains several interesting findings. It appears, among other things, that that the State has little knowledge of the quality of the services of patients taken over by the municipalities. It turns out that community immediate assistance is not used in a good enough way and that cooperation on patients with needs for services from several levels of service is not good enough. In the area of drugs and psychiatry, provision in municipalities is also not strengthened as it should be. Municipalities have increased their capacity and increased their competence to a lesser extent. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, there is reason to follow developments closely, both in the case of patients being transferred too quickly to municipalities, and in the case of municipalities being able to receive more and more patients in a good way. The Christian People's Party shares these assessments. We need a system that addresses the real needs, where supply and tools are adapted to the needs of users and with sufficient resources. In the case of the drugs and psychiatry area, the Riksrevision report shows that the provision of services in the municipalities has not been strengthened in line with the reduction of daily places in the specialist health service. In this context, it should be recalled, as the Committee also does in the setting, that both the municipalities and the specialist healthcare service are responsible for providing services to people with mental or drug problems. Although the patient group is not covered by the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print, the intention of the reform also applies to these groups. Finally, I would like to thank the National Auditorate for a good job in this matter as well. It is important to continue to ensure that the intention of the interaction reform is fully met. I refer you to the rapporteur's examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1488	St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Interaction Reform, outlined the following main challenges: Health services are under-represented in order to reduce and prevent disease. Patients’ need for comprehensive and coordinated services is not adequately addressed. Demographic development and change in the disease picture mean that we need to change the way we provide health care. The reform was referred to, as many have said, as a policy reform which had to constantly evaluate the instruments against the objectives. The reform took the view that the expected growth in the needs of an overall healthcare service should as far as possible find its solution in the municipalities and that a greater proportion of the resource growth in the health sector would come there in the coming years. Specific consideration was given to the fact that the growth of medical resources would mainly come in municipalities to meet increased needs and help to ensure better time for the patient and to strengthen general medical public tasks. The Central Party will stress that the intentions and main functions of the interaction reform are and were both correct and necessary. An increased commitment to community health services, better prevention and increased interaction remains a key challenge in healthcare. In order to ensure the sustainability of future health and care services and to reduce disease and health inequalities in the population, it is necessary to ensure the successful implementation of the interaction reform. We believe that the Riksrevision has pointed out findings that are very serious. The liquidation of municipal co-financing by the government was a step in the wrong direction, as the representative Kolberg also said. By transferring 5.7 billion. From the municipal framework to the hospital framework, the government removed the municipality's incentive to think about prevention and to build up offers where people live. And all the time you hadn't had to reap experience with such a grant, you can't evaluate it all either. The co-financing scheme was primarily designed to strengthen the prevention and health promotion of municipalities, so that the next step could be to see possible effects on the particular lifestyle diseases, such as COPD, diabetes, heart and lung diseases. The municipalities that had made a very good effort were also deprived of their reward, and the Senter party regrets that that change was implemented. We are also particularly concerned that the reform may have contributed to the indebtedness of sleep in Norwegian hospitals, in a situation where Norway has among the shortest lay times in hospitals among OECD countries. Only Turkey and Israel have shorter bedtime for patients in hospitals. The centre party would stress that it was a clear goal of the reform that ready-to-print patients – and I stress more clearly – should leave hospitals and be transferred to the municipalities. But it was not an objective, a purpose of the reform, that the actual treatment period, the necessary treatment period, i.e. the number of days spent in hospitals, should be shortened. That's an important difference. Feedback from pre-depreciation and unlucky redundancies is a cause for concern. The fact that many municipalities report that patients are now being printed so early that it is difficult for municipalities to offer a good service offer indicates that hospitals may have changed their printing practices. I expect the Council of State will answer that, because that is a central point of the review that we now have. I would also like to say that the economic incentive that the charge for patients who are ready to print does not seem to build up under the cooperation agreements and the need for increased cooperation, but primarily contributes to the faster movement of patients between hospitals and municipalities. This development needs to be corrected, and in particular I want attention in one central area, and there are older, fragile patients in the final phase of life. Where there is a lack of cooperation, many movements and transports and cleaning, which is particularly challenging both medically and medically, a question mark must be put to the system. One has to question whether to pay for ready-to-print so-called fragile elderly patients, who are believed to have a short period of time left to live, should be abolished. This is really central. Anyone who has been in a hospital knows how many older people are in such a difficult, demanding situation, where dignity is required during treatment. Another point that I want to pay attention to is that health care companies have transferred 1.5 billion. kr to municipal immediate help daily, so-called ØHD beds, for the period 2012–2014. It is important for the use of the offer that the decision-maker is well aware of the patients that can be admitted to the offer and that the OHD offer is ensured of good competence and the recruitment of the necessary medical expertise, and the Central Party assumes that the critical comments and improvement points of the report of the Riksrevision on the OHD offer are taken seriously and corrected. It is important that the Council of State has a central role. Sjøl if the Council of State considers that the municipalities have not increased their staffing in the area of mental health work in the municipalities in the period 2010–2014, the Senterpartie believes that there is no basis for saying that the offer is not strengthened. The central party responds to the Council of State’s assessment of the current situation. The National Audit Service points out that municipalities experience that the cooperation agreements do not clarify the division of tasks and responsibilities between the specialist health services and the municipalities in the Russian and psychiatry fields, and we believe that the Department needs to assess measures to ensure that drug and psychiatry patients receive a good offer when needed for services from both the municipality and the specialist health service. We refer to the Government's references to Report. St. 26 for 2014–2015, the Primary Health Service of the Future – the proximity and overall requirement of psychologist competence in municipalities, the creation of outreach treatment teams and the payment of ready to print patients in drug and psychiatry, but considers that this is not a response to the challenges posed by this national audit report. We agree with all of the National Audit Office's recommendations and assume that the Council of State and the Department fully follow up these recommendations. Finally. We have noticed that both the Health Authority and the National Audit Office – and I would like to stress both the Health Authority and the National Audit Office – have criticised that the objectives of the reform have not been achieved. The objectives in themselves are broadly agreed, and the central party believes that the objectives have not been achieved shows that there is a need for more interaction, not less. The interaction reform paved the way for the proper use of our common values to ensure good health care for the population, and it is the Minister of Health who has the overall responsibility for ensuring compliance with the cooperation agreements between the hospital and the community health service and ensuring adequate resources for the community health service. And it cannot be stressed enough that local health services need to be provided with sufficient resources to take their responsibilities and also need to be guaranteed competence in order to meet the tasks they are assigned to carry out. The answer to the problems is not to go away from the idea of extending the offer in the municipal health service, but to ensure that it does – and that is, as I said, government and the Council of State are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1511	The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough review of the interaction reform and points to key health and care development points. The report of the National Audit Office, the annual interaction statistics report of the Health Directorate, the follow-up research under the direction of the Research Council and feedback from the Health Authority – are all good contributions to the creation and development of the patient’s health service. The National Audit Office points out that, following the interaction reform, the municipalities have taken over patients who were previously treated in hospital. This is a desired development, but there are still some challenges before we are fully in the goal. Among other things, this applies to the competence of the municipal health and care services, as pointed out by the National Audit Office. Proper competence plays a major role in the quality and capacity of the offer. Strengthening the competence of health and care services requires systematic measures that make it attractive to work in the municipality and further develop as an employee in that service. The government has launched Competencelift 2020, and only in 2016 do we use the earmarked 1.2 billion. to follow this up as a plan for the recruitment, competence and professional development of municipal health and care services. I am therefore not familiar with the presentation by the representative Kolberg that the government does not follow its promises in this area. The aim of the plan is to contribute to a professionally strong service and to ensure that municipal health and care services have adequate and competent staff. The statutory cooperation agreements shall contribute to better interaction between service levels and ensure coherent and well-coordinated services. The cooperation agreements have produced results in the form of more cross-actions. A study from Deloitte and feedback from the National Network for the Implementation of the Interaction Reform is available. Good management, governance, management and development require that the municipality has access to data on the content, activity and performance of the services. Today, we are significantly lacking that type of data for parts of the service, but this knowledge base should be improved. We are now working on establishing a municipal patient and user register, on which the committee gave a positive attitude last week. The establishment shall take place in stages and the first version shall be planned to be operational in 2017. Data from the new register will provide new knowledge of the health status of the population and factors affecting it. The type of knowledge is useful in the planning, governance, financing and evaluation of services – and thus for innovation and quality development. The information contained in the register shall also be used for statistics, health analysis, quality improvement, preparedness, prevention and research. The register shall be open. Both authorities, patients and the general public will have access to the data. The establishment shall take place in stages and, as I said, the first version is planned to be operational until next year. The National Audit Office writes that the supply of patients with drug dependence and mental health challenges is not strengthened as daily space in specialist health services is reduced. From the moment we joined the government, we have been quite clear that we are prioritizing mental health and intoxication. At the same time, we do patients and the professional community a bear service if we only talk about daily places in the specialist health service. Evaluation of outreach treatment teams shows that the need for 24-hour settings decreases if treatment is more adapted to the individual patient’s needs. Although the number of daily positions in specialist health services has decreased, the number of outsourcings and outpatient consultations has increased. In other words, there are several patients who get help in the specialist health service. I have faith that the municipalities will give priority to mental health and drug work, but the previous government lacked the willingness to include mental health and drugs when the instruments of the interaction reform were introduced, and this has had consequences for the priorities of the municipalities – it shows this report. So let's do something about that. We have abolished municipal co-financing, and we are now imposing obligations on municipal immediate help daily for mental health and drug use. The payment obligation for patients who are ready to print shall be imposed as soon as possible. I will come back later to some of the other instruments in this area. I also need to comment on the discussion about municipal co-financing. This was a point of the interaction reform when it was introduced, on which there was disagreement. The parties in government today, and our supporting parties, were also against municipal co-financing at that time. The reason for this was that it was limited to a few diagnostics that mainly hit our oldest patients. There was no professional basis at that time, nor now, to claim that elderly patients with these types of complex diagnoses come too early into the specialist healthcare system, on the contrary. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that they are late for specialist health care and have their disease situation clarified. Putting in place such a powerful tool economically so that these patients would be more and more detained in the community health service, it was not, and is not, the basis for, and therefore we fulfilled our election commitment to abolish municipal co-financing. The second was that I heard criticism that one should have waited for results. A similar but stronger system was introduced in Denmark, which has longer experience, and the scheme, as far as we see, had no proven effect in Denmark. In addition, the scheme resulted in significant uncertainty in very many municipalities because there were very many municipalities that experienced that their expenditure on municipal co-financing exceeded the funds transferred. It meant that, instead of doing as some representatives here, the municipalities are making what, in fact, to bet on positive and preventive measures, would have to cut their health and care services when they made up their budgets in order to budget with the uncertainty of the municipal co-financing. This, collectively, was the background for the abolition of the system by the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The setting-up of immediate community assistance 24-hours for patients with somatic diseases in the municipalities is one of the key instruments of the interaction reform. The impact of follow-up research varies, and the effect depends to a large extent on how the offer is organised and whether it is actually used. We know that the occupancy rate is low in many places, but it increases as the offer becomes known. The reason for the low number of coatings is, among other things, complex hospitalisation procedures and lack of involvement of prescribers. But we also know that the offer is being used by the right patients, and we know that immediate help admissions to hospitals go down where the municipal places are used. The offer is new and was first required by law on 1 January of this year. The assessment of the scheme must therefore take this into account. I am convinced that here we need to give municipalities and healthcare some better time to ensure better use of these places. Of course, it is demanding for hospitals that resources have been taken from them and transferred to the municipalities to establish these services that are not fully used, and at the same time the hospitals have the same access to patients, but we want to work to ensure that this offer is more widely used, and thus also to a greater extent relieves the needs of the specialist healthcare service. I am pleased that the National Audit Office is helping to put these issues on the agenda, but it is too early to draw the blatant conclusions on the effects of the instruments, but I am not in doubt that, as many people have said, this is a policy reform and a proper direction reform, but it is important to remember that this was a policy reform in which the economic instruments were given a very dominant place, while the content of the service was given a very limited place. This was also what the political discussion was about when the Stoltenberg II government presented the interaction reform, where the opposition gathered to negotiate with the government on the content of the reform, an invitation rejected by the then government. Many of the points on which the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left at that time agreed were absolutely necessary measures in addition to the financial instruments of the cooperation reform, show, in my view, that this national audit report was quite correct. It was a policy reform, but it largely lacked content in addition to the economic instruments. The content has been presented to a very large extent now and has gained its support in the Storting, not least through the wholesale notification of primary health services. What is the situation in which the history of the interaction reform is to be written is that the content of the reform, the conditions for the services required for municipalities to fulfil the intention of the reform, is the municipal reform that is now in place. I believe that a significant explanation of why the interaction reform contained a direction, but not a content, was the challenge of simply describing the scope of services in the municipalities that were necessary to succeed in the interaction reform in a government where there was no agreement on the need for a municipal reform. In my view, the primary health message and the interaction reform and the direction of the interaction reform are one of the most central and essential reasons for the municipal reform that is now in the process of being implemented. It will require a higher level of competence in municipalities, such as the law passed today at the hearing, requiring all municipalities to have doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and midwives from 2018, that all municipalities should have psychologists, ergot therapists and dentists from 2020, and that a requirement, which has now also been issued at the hearing, should be that all permanent practitioners should be specialists in general medicine or under specialisation. The escalation plan for the drug field to which Stortinget has joined, where we will spend a total of 2.4 billion over the next five years. This reform will require multi-disciplinary teams working with the specialist health service to interact with each other, but thus also broader competences in the municipalities than the existing municipal structure provides. It is therefore important that we now move on to what is really the content reform in the direction, and that is the implementation of the primary health notification and also the much clearer commitments to interaction that also follow from the national health and hospital plan. This has not been done overnight, but I am absolutely convinced that what is now being done is right – it should only have been started at the same time that the direction of the reform had been introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1543	When Stortinget adopted the cooperation reform, it was actually quite a big day, I thought. Then we should take a statement with the developments that had taken place in health care until then, i.e. that there had been an undue growth in the hospital sector, while the community health service was not developed in the way she should. Several have said that it was a direction reform, and yes, it was a direction reform. What we said was that the hospitals were going to get less, that the main weight of the growth in health services was now going to happen in the municipalities, and the background was that we had more preventive efforts, we had challenges in the community health services with several older people, and we had to set up our health services in a whole new way. It was very precisely outlined in the interaction reform that we saw lead us, and it is important that everyone has it clear. Then economic payment arrangements and financial arrangements were used to support the change that was to happen in the healthcare system. Now we've got a national audit report, and I'm very pleased, because with all this reform, it's very important to see that developments are going as we expected. I have to say that we can go into the details here of the various measures, but in general the national audit report shows that, given the most important aspects of the interaction reform, we have failed, when it is necessary to turn the health care sector from hospitals to municipalities, that the main growth is now to be done in the municipalities, this is where we are to have a capacity increase. What the Riksrevision points out is that precisely what was the premise for the whole reform has not happened, that the municipalities have increased their capacity to a small extent and strengthened their competence after the implementation of the interaction reform. When we can't do it, we can discuss and criticise why things are going to be as they are in the individual fields, but as long as the municipalities haven't gotten more capacity and strengthened their competence, we haven't been closed, and we have to work for that, otherwise this is no use here. Yes, the municipalities have taken over the patients who had been treated in the past, with no news. There was nothing new either when we introduced the interaction reform, it was the liability that would then apply from day one, it applied from day ten. The report to the Riksrevision shows that these have come out of hospital. That's good, they're better off in a municipality. But what is not good is what the representative, Mr Lundteg, said that we see that there may also be a change in the actual day of the day. Therefore, both permanents and hospitals report that many patients are so poor that they find it difficult to find a good enough supply in the municipalities. Then the National Auditor shows that there is little knowledge of quality. Yeah, that's not good either, of course. But what the council says is that now we're going to get a municipal patient and user register. Yes, in the long term we will get more knowledge about what is going on in the municipal health service, but I thought that I would wait two to three years to learn more about what is going on right now when it applies, for example. the patients who are ready to print are defensive. We also know that cleaning has increased by 2 pst. Reindeer and 2 pst. may sound innocent, but in the case of the elderly, there may be great ramifications. So for immediate community assistance daily, which was also a content of the cooperation reform. I want to distance myself from what the Council of State said that the interaction reform did not contain, that it was just the payment arrangement. Immediate daily help was a new service that came, a new responsibility that was added to the municipalities and was to be seen in conjunction with municipal co-financing, because then the municipalities had an alternative place to add a patient. Now when we see that it's not going to be used in any way or to an extent that the intention said, I agree with the council that we're going to give it a little bit more time. But what's serious is that the reason why I'm not adding is that one isn't quite sure about the quality of the supply and what kind of patient this is. What I think is irresponsible is that, in such a situation, the government is going to bring immediate community assistance to psychiatric patients from New Year's. No municipalities are forbidding it, and I fear that the patient supply may be suffering. When it comes to cooperation on patients, it's called the interaction reform, it's to improve interaction between municipalities and hospitals. It is in one way perhaps the most serious thing about the whole national audit report – at least it is one of the things I think is sad – that an interaction reform has not got a better structure on the very interaction. A law stating that there should be a cooperation agreement between the hospital and the municipality, and we believed that this should lead to that at least the municipalities were better equipped for the enterprise. But we also see from feedback that here one has to follow up even more closely, when it comes to this with individual planes, etc., that it is used in another way, and that one has to secure these holistic patient paths. This is a responsibility that I expect the Ministry of Health and Health to follow up. We have a legal basis for this cooperation, and we have to make sure that the cooperation agreements work as we thought. When it comes to the drugs and psychiatry area, many people say that these patients were not part of the interaction reform. That is not correct. They were not part of the payment arrangements, just as cancer patients were not part of the co-financing scheme, because this was a policy reform, and then one started with some patient groups. We stated when we adopted the interaction reform, that it was a clear goal to further develop this into the Russian and psychiatry field, and we actually got criticism from today's position party, i.e. the government party. When I am still concerned about introducing these payment schemes already in 2017 and 2018, it is precisely the Riksrevisions report that worries me about it. When they say that the supply of drugs and psychiatry is not strengthened in these years, that one has had a reduction in daily capacity, that is, beds, of 10 pst. for 4 years, from 2010 to 2014, reaches 70 pst. According to the municipalities, they have not increased the number of annual works, and when figures from the Statistical Central Bureau say that the annual work rate for mental health has not actually increased in the municipalities – by no means, at least – since 2008, the drug and psychiatry fields have a completely different starting point to that of the municipal health services and care for the elderly when we introduced it for the somatic patients. The council says in reply here that annual doesn't matter, or that he doesn't put such emphasis on it. I don't agree with that. When you look at what is said about prioritizing mental health in the enterprise with the golden rule, it is strongly criticised because it did not work. It's been a decline in 24 hours. I would like to stress that it has been a villa of professional and political degradation of dusks. What I'm criticising is that it happens without the municipalities building up their capacity in advance. When we know that our demands for increased capacity in the municipality have not been followed up, it is no wonder that one is told that there have not been more long-term places, there have been no more short-term places, there have not been any increases in medical work, there have been twice as many lay in hospitals in these years. What I was hoping for was that the Stortinge, when we discussed this national audit report, was completely in agreement with what we are about to do to secure the interaction, what we are about to do to secure the immediate aid supply, what we are going to do to ensure that the patients in writing, what we are going to do to avoid cleaning, and not least how we are going to ensure that the municipalities get the necessary growth to make these supplies. I found the Council of State in its article here underestimating the municipality of Norway and underestimating health professionals, laymen, nurses and such, given that they do not want to work in the municipalities, do not want to work in a small municipality, when he sees a sign of similarity between municipal reform and cooperation reform. I have not read one word in this report that says this is a problem in small municipalities and not in large ones. I have read some other evaluations of the interaction reform, and when it comes to paying for patients who are ready to print, it's the big city councils that have had the biggest problem. When it comes to these immediate help-beds, it was in my county at least Bergen that was all, at the very last to establish it. What was great about the interaction reform was that so many municipalities were very engaged and had a willingness to take more responsibility, to increase their competence, and we're going to stick to that. I have great faith that that will is there. It depends on the Storting making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1569	First, as a member of the Health and Care Committee, I have to say that it is very funny that the Riksrevision is going through our work – both because it is being seen with other eyes, and because we can see whether it has an effect, what is the will here in the Stortinget. So back to the goal of the interaction reform itself. There, the Workers' Party, which several have already been involved – not least the representative Kolberg – experiences that we have not achieved the objective of lifting up and strengthening the community health service to the extent that it was the intention behind the cooperation reform. It was the patient who was in focus, it was the patient who was going to get a better offer, and we were also going to get a better use of resources. It has been said that it was a policy reform. At that time I was a local politician, and then it was quite clear that it was a big shot to turn around to get that direction in place. Anyone who knows a little bit about shipping knows that clear management is needed, in this context political leadership is needed to manage to reverse it and lift it up. In terms of content, I think it's wise in this context to be a little humble. The working party, together with those who were then in government, was quite clear on how we also followed up the content of the interaction reform. It was supported by a greater focus on public health, which is the primary responsibility of the municipalities. We also followed up on the ICT field – one citizen, one journal. There we did not always agree with the bourgeois parties here in the Stortinget, but there they have turned. In terms of care and care, tomorrow's care, you also gave a very clear direction where you wanted to, and how to develop quality. The Competence Plan 2015 was to increase the competence of employees, and changes were also made to the municipal care law, etc. I believe that the Workers' Party has been clearly involved in all the areas that need to be lifted, both creating the right content, creating the legally correct framework and prioritizing resources. But as I said, it's a big shot to turn around, and then it takes a little while, so you also have to follow this important area carefully. There has been talk of municipal co-financing. Locally in Hordaland, there were two bourgeoisly run municipalities that went high on the track. One was the municipality of Fjell, which really took this into account and said quite clearly that municipal co-financing was the prerequisite and motivation for starting the change process. They were first out. Then we have Meland municipality, which did the opposite and just saw all the obstacles and how difficult everything was. At the first experience conference that I attended when I started here at Stortinget, it was quite clear that there were many positive aspects to this co-financing, using economic incentives, but of course there were some challenges along the way. And there we disagree. We believe that to turn a shot, it is wise and wise to use financial incentives and not least to promote the municipalities when they are able to implement positive measures, as we have done. In the case of immediate help points, it is only now that we have a regime change both in Bergen and in Oslo that they have finally got their offer. When you're about to develop a new offer, you're often a little dependent on the big engines, and they're in the big cities like Bergen and Oslo. There I have challenged the Council of State to be a little more clear about the content, and that after I have visited several of the immediate help offers, because they are a little bit sought after. It is good that they are seeking in a start-up phase, but very many offers have been very close to the hospitals and have become mini-sickness centres and not the new arenas that were wanted in the interaction reform. The answer so far is that it is the Medical Association that has been involved and helped to provide guidance. Perhaps there could be a clear message from the Council of State about what should be the content, so that it builds up under the intentions behind the interaction reform. So for a play list. Well, that's the area where we can best compare whether we're reaching an inequality between the specialist and the primary health field, and that's actually where we've at least succeeded both in lifting up the field with the content. When we are going to train the future doctors, the part that is targeted at the primary municipality and the municipalities, tour sites and practice has received the least attention and may also need to be supported financially. Health and care 21 was also initiated by the former government and now followed up by the current government. There was the intention to lift up the entire field of research related to the primary health field, and there we still have a way to go. All in all, the Labour Party believes that very well has happened in terms of the intentions behind the cooperation reform. It's a strong commitment in a lot of municipalities and in a lot of professional environments, but we have a good way to go, and leadership, political leadership, is absolutely crucial to achieving our goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1609	This is the second management report today, which has aroused interest and pleasure in the Committee. In this respect it is said that the committee is easy to enjoy. But these are very important reports, because the interaction reform was a huge effort. Here's how to take advantage of the component that is the most powerful input into providing good health care. We can also enjoy a great deal of convergence in our views in this matter. While the previous case we were dealing with had an unusually broad goal, it is said that precisely the management of the crew resources is one of several factors. Although it is an important factor, other factors, which are outside this report, also affect the final result. It can be anything from the physical appearance of the buildings, age, the availability of capital equipment – also called instruments – that is needed to provide these gradually very specialised services, but here, people are talking about: the care resources. We think, as I said, that there are some interesting points made. There are different emphasis and different majority in the committee, but at this point we have not disagreed: we want to remind ourselves that leadership is not just a technocratic exercise. It also has to do with general human qualities, how to lead, how to organize. There are at all some input factors that are related to management, which are not so easy to measure – just so that is said, and so that we are aware that there are more dimensions than what can be immediately read out of the report. With regard to the issues referred to in the management report, concepts such as ‘low productivity’ and ‘low labour productivity’ have been used. The members of the Committee have taken a slightly different view on this. I'm assuming that the minority will clarify its vision. But correctly understood, it means, of course, that we are interested in knowing how much is left over in relation to the use of resources, because resources can always be used as an alternative, and therefore we also have a great obligation to make sure that they are used, even though we have to use some technocratic concepts such as ‘work productivity’. Among the findings mentioned in the report is that bed beds have low productivity because they have a long sleep or low capacity utilisation. It is also noted that shorter bedtime will provide more patients with treatment and thus increase labour productivity. Overall, bed beds have high labour productivity, compared with similar bed beds with low labour productivity, more often fewer beds per bed, higher capacity utilisation and shorter bed rest periods. It sounds good if you do not lose sight of the fact that from the patient’s point of view there must also be limits on how short it should be, on how few it should be used and on how much capacity it should be used. As far as capacity utilisation is concerned, those who have been away from practical hospital operations will know that because of holiday settlements, summer holidays and so on, bed beds are closed and receive several corridor Asians. Once again, this may look good on paper, but it's not certain that those affected by such organizational adjustments experience it as a rise in quality, to say it very carefully. Therefore, these concepts must always be read with a critical background that professionally sound services are provided and that no compromise is reached at any time with patient safety. The Committee has also reflected on this. We agree with the Riksrevision that most bedposts have an efficiency potential, regardless of whether they are compared with themselves over time, which is the method chosen in this report. You can ask whether not also ‘benchmarking’, nationally and not least in the Nordic countries, towards countries with the same systems as ourselves, would also provide some interesting learning. The suggestion that a productivity gain of 5 pst could have been realised. The release of all the shift hours in the posts if you eliminate periods where you are below average may be correct, but at the same time we think that it seems like a very theoretical approach, and that you may not have quite realised that Health Norway is stretching over a lot of different institutions, and that there can often be some kind of relationship, which makes the results read so differently. At least it is not politically disputed that we want healthcare companies to use care resources effectively, that management information is best managed and should provide the best possible basis for effective management, and that it is an important task to raise awareness of management's ability to dimension manning from the patient coating, if at the same time the conditions I was in place. There's one thing that unfortunately falls outside this report, and that's that you haven't gone into the possibilities you have by changing some of the frames, for example. through agreed tour arrangements, by providing increased flexibility, of course in cooperation with employee organisations. Part of the framework has been taken for granted. It may also have contributed to the perception of choices as something more limited than they would actually have been if management had also seen it as their job – along with employees – to agree a little further on how to get good professional and efficient operation, which is for the benefit of both patients and patients who will later enter and possibly stand in line, and who thus get the pleasure of being taken away from that queue earlier because we have up-and-coming and effective institutions. Finally, I would also like to say that since this is basically an outline of a productivity assessment of hospitals, the Committee will also advertise a little for the very important investigations that have now come to the table. For the two positions of the Productivity Commission: NOW 2015: 1, called Productivity – the basis for growth and well-being. This is the first report of the Productivity Commission. It was followed up by NOU 2016: 3 At a turning point: from resource economy to knowledge economy. There are also very interesting things that also apply within our field, what has been presented here and that pertains to the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1642	I refer you here to the rapporteur's statement, which gave a good overview of the matter. I'm not going to start a discussion about the relationship between the productivity of health businesses and collective agreements and that kind of thing right now. I think we just have to say that the Riksrevision has no choice at this point. There they have to stick to the laws and rules that already exist. In this way, I understand how the National Audit Office has put its work into action. This is a report that is very important, as the rapporteur said. Both of these reports today mean a lot to the population and now to the efficiency and resource use of our large health businesses. It is, of course, about, for Storting, how resources can be used better. It's, as the Storting knows, very large sums are talking about here. 140 B.C.E. NOK and so it goes to the specialist health service, granted by this magnification. That's our common health service. We agree that these resources must be used in a good way; each crown must be used in a good way, as the report shows. When 70 pst. of course, the management of human resources is an important element in achieving the best possible health care for the appropriations. It is, as the rapporteur said, an overall committee that has pointed out that the management audit report itself only deals with a limited range of all the factors that could be chosen to assess whether healthcare is proportionate to resource use, but we are given the opportunity to focus on what the report is about now. We know that the specialist health service is one of the largest jobs in the country, and the competence of employees is the most important input in the sector. A good working environment and high motivation make hospitals stronger and treatment better. Reducing burdens and investing in health promotion jobs are therefore necessary. In many places, management gets this, but it's still a great potential for improvement, as the report shows. The working party has long been concerned with increasing attention to the value of culture and management. This priority is well in line with this report. Many are ultimately concerned with good organisation — through good management and involvement of employees at all stages. The Committee points out that the management audit report has found indications of variations between health enterprises in the efficiency of the use of human resources, but there is little information on the causes of these differences. The working party considers that the variations identified in the report need to be reviewed, and management management management information needs to provide a better basis for effective governance. It is an important task to raise awareness of management's ability to dimension manning from the patient coating if individual and local conditions are to be taken into account at the same time. The working party concludes, like the rest of the Committee, with the National Audit Office’s observation that management at different levels of health businesses must have sufficient knowledge of the operation of the business to gain insight into what works well and what should be improved. At the same time, there are methodological weaknesses in which the Riksrevision analysis should be strengthened and supported by further data before final conclusions can be drawn. Like the rest of the committee, the Labour Party believes that high levels of temporary work and high levels of sick leave are factors that reflect how effectively we use nursing resources in hospitals. Local management was pointed to in the report setting. St. 11 for 2015–2016, National Health and Hospital Plan, as a significant factor in the proper follow-up of the individual hospital. This, like solid ground staff and a good working environment, can contribute to low sick leave and professionally sound patient treatment. At the same time, the Labour Party has noticed the sharp increase in temporary employment in recent years. In three years, 2.7 billion has been used. NOK at the rental of temporary workers to cover what they call holes in tours. This corresponds to a great many years' work for health professionals and could have been used in a better way, according to the views of the Workers' Party. Temporary workers may also pose a risk to patient safety. Furthermore, in the current government, it is budgeted with reduced staffing in the long-term economic plans of enterprises. This does not correspond to the needs outlined in projections from, inter alia, SSB. The working party is part of the majority who have noticed that the study does not affect aspects related to the human resources composition of the various posts and departments. This may be crucial for the overall effort. The cooperation between, for example, primary and specialist health services and between outpatient and bedside facilities is also not affected. Overall, several elements should be included when assessing the management of nursing resources in health enterprises. In healthcare, we depend on knowing if the right patient is in the right place and whether the treatment is given at the right level to make good decisions. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the report has not assessed how the scope of action contained in the provisions of the Working Environment Act and collective agreements could have been used in cooperation with employees in order to ensure a better local adaptation to patient-oriented care, as the rapporteur also said. Employees and their competences are the health care's most important resource. Overall, Norway has a high level of health personnel coverage compared to other countries. The challenges are primarily linked to geographical variations in the availability of personnel and increasing demand for new competences. Figures from the SSB show that 110000 people currently work in the specialist health service. Projections show that by 2030 there will be a need for 30 000 more health workers, and by 2040 there will be a need for 40000 more. These projections show that continuous use and development of existing human resources must be undertaken. Medical development has always resulted in a division of tasks within occupational groups, between different occupational groups and between different levels of administration. Development has been dynamic and must remain dynamic. How we use the care resources in this labour-intensive sector is crucial for what we believe our common healthcare should look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1676	In Norway, we are in a privileged situation. We have a well-developed health system at all levels; we have a well-being system that should take care of each one of us when we need it most, when health fails physically or mentally. And we have a high level of competence among health workers, who stand on every single day, often under demanding conditions both materially, physically and mentally. That's why I want to say first of all: Norwegian health services consist of thousands of everyday heroes who give of themselves every day. A well-functioning healthcare system is one of the most important things we can offer the population. At the same time, well-developed health services will also need resources. Then it is important that we rig the systems so that we get as much health as possible again for each crown, while at the same time making it possible for the employees to do their job the best they can. Of course, efficiency requirements should not compromise the patient’s safety and safety. The efficiency requirement must not be at the expense of the quality of the service provision. The focus of the National Audit Office has been to study whether the management of care resources in healthcare enterprises contributes to the good use of resources and the efficient use of care resources. In 2015, the total expenditure of regional health enterprises is more than 130 billion. kr. The compensation of employees in the somatic specialist health service amounts to about 70 p.m. of the operating costs. Nursing and caregivers account for a large proportion of annual work and are therefore of great importance for the efficient use of the total resources. The aim of the study has been to explain how governance contributes to the effective use of nursing staff in healthcare businesses in order to achieve the SMO's assumption of efficient resource use. The survey covers six categories of somatic bedlinen during the period from January 2013 until January 2015. The report shows that there are wide variations in the effectiveness of healthcare providers in the use of nursing staff. A central finding is that the manning is not well enough adapted to the varying number of patients. Several health professionals have the same number of caregivers on the job every day, despite having more patients early in the week than near the weekend. More effective use can release resources for the treatment of multiple patients. More than half of the middle managers of the bed posts believe that they have sufficient information to assess whether the staff are being used effectively, shows the Riksrevisions report. It's a low number. The National Audit Office points out that cooperation and exchange of experience can contribute to a better and more efficient use of resources. The national audit report shows that the financial framework is largely determined on the basis of the previous year’s budget, and the budget is assessed on the basis of the results of previous years and patient coverage. On the other hand, information on manning and patient covering relationships, on lying times and care needs is used to a lesser extent. There is also evidence from the National Audit Office that there is a difference between high productivity bed items and low productivity. The most effective bedlinen cooperates with other units to manage sick leave and unforeseen variation in the number of patients. Only half of the bedposts with low productivity do the same thing. Bedholds with high productivity had fewer beds per bed and higher capacity utilisation. At the same time, their patients needed more care, but still less sleep. Then I notice that the Minister of Health and Care writes in his reply to the National Audit Office that the studies and recommendations provide useful knowledge, and that the Council of State will follow up in the governance dialogue with the health regions. That's good. I am sure that the knowledge we have gained from this report will be useful, and I am very confident that the Council of State will use this knowledge base that we have now gained from the Riksrevision, in its work towards the follow-up of health companies. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1699	I would like to thank the National Audit Office for having gone into the topic, sail if we from the Central Party do not agree with some of the recommendations that the Riksaudition has made, and that I will go into more detail. It is true, as many have said, that there are significant amounts spent on regional health businesses – 130 billion. kr in 2015 – but I would like to stress that in relation to other countries, relatively speaking, there is no high amount. Those countries that have a weaker public specialist health service offer have a higher share of expenditure on the tasks we are talking about. It is therefore a great advantage for Norway to have a pooling and strong, public offer, and that a dampening of the private entry and thus countering what is the right king’s idea, namely that an increasing proportion of the specialist health offer is to be made by private companies for the purpose of making money. It is the compensation of employees that accounts for the majority of the operating costs, about 70 p.m., and it is nurses, assistants and health professionals that account for the largest share of about 70000 annual works. So we're talking about an enormously large and important work force where it's absolutely vital how the human resources are managed so that we get both the quality and the most back for the money. As the rapporteur was involved, there is a limited range of areas affected by the Riksaudition, but what is then affected is what is related to people, it is linked to the human resources. I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that emphasizes that ‘The key to effectiveness in healthcare is primarily to ensure the organisation and management of the specialist healthcare service that triggers the motivation and willingness of employees to contribute’. Here we have the great potential for improvement in the public sector in general and in hospitals in particular. I'll get closer to it. In summing up the findings, the National Audit Office shows that management management information does not provide sufficient basis to ensure effective use of care resources. The national audit reports that the interview survey reveals that many bedpost managers have limited access to management information showing the relationship between patient cover and crew. We have just received a supervisory report from the Hospital Telemark HF, and the preliminary report of 21 April 2016, which is referred to in the resolution, states: ‘We find it critical in itself that healthcare companies do not have good enough systems to record patient coatings and that this makes it difficult for both the board members of the company, the supervisory authority, political authorities and others to have a proper understanding of the size of the patient coating.’ It was in the context that there was so much patient coverage that the audit pointed out the major danger to the high patient coverage and the lack of quality of services and serious consequences with several deaths at the Hospital Telemark. Now the report has come, and we will have a more detailed discussion about this. What is happening in this report is that the Riksrevision also points to the lack of governance data of health enterprises. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress that this is serious when it is the type of management information that a user is a significant criterion for operating its business. Health enterprises are managed according to a system where there is no satisfactory overview of staffing compared to patient coverings and patient coverings in relation to the number of bed places. Patient covering and staffing are factors that have a high impact on patient treatment quality and, in particular, patient safety. The efficient use of resources in healthcare businesses must be ensured in such a way as to ensure that the other purposes and requirements of the Special Health Service Act are also met, requirements relating to quality improvement requirements, patient safety and proper reception of patients for immediate assistance. Requirements for so-called labour productivity and efficient services must not be at the expense of the quality of service provision or the provision of services necessary for the care, care, treatment and follow-up of sick people. I noticed with interest what the case rapporteur, the representative Tetzschner, said on that point, which in its value basis was reasonably identical – as I understood it – with what I am now trying to present. The purpose of health enterprises is to provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it, whenever they need it, regardless of age, sex, residence, economy and ethnic background. It is important, then, to stress that anyone providing healthcare under the Special Health Services Act is to ensure that the activities work systematically with quality improvements and patient safety. It says that a worker works with patient safety and quality improvements, but one should not have been much inside a hospital to see how this works in practice, how it works in emergency situations, and how it works evening, night and holidays. Then the fine words are far weaker in practice, and we know a lot of professionals, many of the health professionals, who really feel like they're in trouble, because they have the nice words, but when there's really a need, there's often not enough professionals present. We also need, as I said now, to have quality in the immediate assistance, that hospitals and maternity wards should immediately receive patients who need somatic health care, when, after the information available, it must be assumed that the help the institution or department can provide is urgently needed. The centre party would stress that the National Audit Office’s report on the effectiveness of human resources use does not take into account the impact of care efficiency on the quality of supply or whether emergency planning and the requirements to receive unplanned interventions through immediate assistance are adequately addressed and met. This is very, very demanding. The centre party, together with SV, distances itself from using terms such as ‘work productivity’ to treat patients in the healthcare system. These are concepts that the Riksrevision has derived from the New Public Management philosophy, which assumes that the production of healthcare, if it is accurate enough, can be compared to the production of other goods and services. The centre party is aware that labour productivity should show how much patient treatment the bedlinen has done with the care resources used and that the care points per week in the report have been used as an indicator of labour productivity. The study uses a model where the productivity measure of care points per watch hour is divided into different factors. We point out that the model implies that long lay time or low capacity utilisation, patient coverings provide low productivity, while high patient coverings and short bedtime provide high labour productivity. We should be aware that Norway is already among the countries with the shortest lay time and thus early hospital discharge. Norway also has an average occupancy rate that is very high compared to other countries, about 93 pst. in 2013. The centre will show that both the Health Directorate and the Medical Association recommend an average coating of 85 pst. in hospitals, which are also a state of health hospital in England. Research shows that high occupancy rates, especially if higher than 92.5 pst., are clearly related to delays in patient progression, multiple hospital infections, employee disease and increased mortality for patients. So it's an incredibly demanding theme that we're in, so the central party doesn't belong to all of the National Audit Office's recommendations. We do not agree that one should provide guidance indicators like this, because it turns out to have a limited effect as it is today. We do not agree with the fact that experience from high labour productivity bed posts is transferred to other bed posts. We want it to be operated efficiently, we want you to get more money back, but as the system is today, the system is not suitable for triggering what I started with, namely the individual's sense of responsibility and initiative in the case. So we're going to go against these measurement methods and say that they're not suitable for health care. In our view, when a recommendation is based on the measurement of so-called labour productivity measured in care scores per shift in somatic bedding units, there is a far too narrow way of assessing care resources from the point of view. The method will include, inter alia: could favour hospital wards with high patient coverage, which we know is a direct threat to patient safety. And when the Riksrevision recommends that experience from high-labour-productive bedholds should be transferred to other bedholdings, this may mean recommending a medical practice that focuses on very early printings and generally high-patient coverage, including corridor Asians. Such a recommendation cannot be joined by the Centre Party. What's at the heart of it is leadership. The centre party agrees that good management, planning and management of the human resources are essential for health care enterprises to provide good and equivalent specialist health services. The Central Party recommends that the Ministry of Health and Welfare provide local management in all hospitals. What do we mean by local management? Yes, we mean a local leader who has responsibilities, professional responsibility and financial responsibility. We believe here that one must have a culture of fixed employment and a good basic staff, that one has a high professional level of employees, and that one has a culture in which one stimulates employees to take responsibility and think seas for the purpose that management has drawn up for the business. This is called in other contexts operational management. It's supposed to give them greater responsibilities and greater influence, depending on who's on the first line. It's a laborious process. It's the establishment of a culture that takes a long time, it requires a very conscious management, and it requires a management that has a closeness to the people who work. At that time, this with guidance indicators could be an aid, but the main thing is proximity. It is at the heart of this document that you need to focus more on getting that kind of management, and that the Ministry of Health and Health stimulates this kind of management to be transferred to other hospitals that have worse conditions in this area, so that you get more money back, and stimulate the quality and staff to do a good job. In every context here, we need to be aware that when we talk about the efficient operation of hospitals, we must never forget that 70 pst. hospitalisations are provided as immediate help. This makes it difficult to allow care resources to vary completely at all times according to the patient covering in question. All control indicators must take account of the fact that this is a service that has emergency responsibilities. Therefore, once again: preparedness, immediate assistance and the unforeseen, together with the high quality requirement, require that one has a management that can be better described as a responsibility management, a responsibility management that is close to what is happening, and continuously develops the activities of the patient’s situation for the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1750	The National Audit Office’s review of the management of care resources in healthcare companies shows that there is a potential for improvement in the specialist healthcare service. This I want to follow up. In my reply to the Riksrevision, dated 8 September last year, I therefore stated that the Riksrevision's comments and recommendations are a good contribution to further governance and improvement in the specialist health service. The results of the study provide useful input to hospital work on analysis, planning and manning against variations in activity needs. Work is in progress and must be followed up at all levels of hospitals, not least at department and post level. The National Audit Office’s study highlights management’s knowledge, tools and management information as key factors in achieving a more efficient use of nursing staff. I fully agree with that. However, it is not only about efficient resource use related to health professionals as an input factor, it is ultimately also about the quality of health care provided. In the national health and hospital plan, it was considered that good management and management of human resources are essential for the efficient provision of specialist health services. Managers must organise their work in such a way that staff are used as efficiently as possible and that they are used for the benefit of the patient. In this there are, among other things: good manning planning at individual posts, but also a complete look at the overall use of care resources at different bedside stations and between outpatients and bedside beds. Hospitals should be better placed to think about flexibility in both moving patients and exchanging personnel between posts. These are measures that could contribute to better management of both sick leave and unforeseen variation in patient care in hospitals. Through the follow-up and governance dialogue of the Department with the regional health companies, I have been informed that important actions related to staff planning have been implemented. All regional health businesses have worked over time with activity-based manning and resource planning, i.e. linking manning planning to activity and variation in patient coverage. However, these are relatively complex processes, which are not only about care resources but also about other personnel. Regional health establishments have facilitated improvement processes, procedures and process descriptions for good manning planning. Comprehensive ICT support and analyses have also been provided in this work. The National Audit Office’s survey refers to variations between hospital departments that are naturally comparable. They also point to the lack of a link between manning planning and activity and the lack of cross-cooperation between departments. These are areas in need of continuous improvement work to which health care businesses still need to pay great attention. Regional health regions and health businesses are responsible for dimensioning and organising patient treatment. Leaders and individual specialists in the specialist health service make daily decisions on priorities, and they must give priority within the given frameworks based on the governance information available. As Minister of Health and Care, I have an overall responsibility to establish clear principles and systems of prioritisation, and I have therefore submitted a new key message on priority – Values in the patient’s healthcare service. Furthermore, I have a general responsibility that the specialist health service has the resources, competences, tools and management information necessary to be able to work well to improve the quality and effectiveness of patient treatment from the first-line managers, who are the ones close to patient treatment, and right up to the top managers in these often very large businesses. It is a statutory responsibility for health regions to contribute to an equivalent service provision for the population while ensuring optimal use of resources. However, there is a wide variation in both waiting times and effectiveness between hospitals. Therefore, in the business meetings and in the mission document of the health regions in January 2015, I demanded that they implement measures to reduce variations in efficiency and waiting time between hospitals. An important element is to ensure the learning between departments and hospitals based on knowledge of best practice and a specific assessment of concrete measures necessary to reduce waiting times and increase the efficiency of units and departments. The national audit has shown, through several studies, that there are too many variations between the country’s hospitals and the country’s hospitals. This concerns waiting times, efficiency and the way in which you manage your care resources. I have followed up the results and recommendations of the National Audit Office in the business meetings in the health regions, in joint follow-up meetings and in the recommendations and measures contained in the National Health and Hospital Plan. I still want to ask for results that show that departments and hospitals are able to learn from each other, and through this help reduce the negative variations. One does not ask the hospital to do what is impossible, to compromise patient safety and quality. On the contrary, there is nothing to suggest that the departments that have managed to make good use of resources, reduce waiting times and increase activity go beyond quality. However, it is extremely important that hospitals — departments within hospitals, as well as hospitals among themselves — learn more and more quickly from those who succeed and learn to use more of the tools. This is something that is now being worked more systematically. The intervention of the representative Lundtigen could give a small impression that healthcare had a general challenge in emergency situations. I don't think that's the basis for saying that. In the situations we've had, and have, serious incidents, the general impression is that health services are handling situations well. Although, of course, there is always potential for improvement in all areas, this must not be an impression that remains after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1780	The size shall address the Riksrevision report on the study of management of care resources in healthcare professionals. I understand, and I think it's right that one looks at how one manages the money a permission for healthcare professionals. There are many billions, although we can discuss whether there is too much in relation to other countries, etc. However, the National Audit Office’s recommendation is that health professionals can use care resources more effectively, that the management information of the management of the management does not provide sufficient basis to ensure effective use of care resources, that planning of the staff is not sufficiently adapted to the variations in the patient’s cover, and that more cooperation between the beds can provide more efficient use of care resources. It is that the Centre Party cannot join all of these recommendations altogether. At least it's made me think: what are we actually going out to investigate, and what kind of premises are the ones behind the tests we do when it comes to the health care? I would first like to state that what is extremely important and, as I see it, it is a comitology note, is leadership and organisation; it is a guarantee of a leadership and organisation of the specialist services ‘that triggers the motivation and willingness of employees to contribute’. They are added to the will and motivation to do the best they can, it is important, and we must not forget these formulas that we are about to decide on today when it comes to so-called labour productivity. The National Audit Office writes that there are wide variations in what is called labour productivity, and in this context they recommend that health care providers can use care resources more effectively and that low-labour productivity departments need to be more effective. Labour productivity shows how much patient treatment the bed post has done with the care resources used. ‘Pleasants per week’ has been used as a change, as an indicator of labour productivity. It is said in the debate here that we can have different attitudes to labour productivity. I say, no, we don't have different attitudes, because when it's about labour productivity, it's exactly defined in the National Audit Office's report how to get to that change. There are four components that act on behavior points. They are the dimensioning – i.e. the crew that is adapted to the bed capacity – the need for care, the time of lie and the use of capacity, also called the occupancy rate, i.e. the actual number of days divided by capacity is on a day-to-day basis. Then we get a formula that is so that if you have fewer nurses per bed, you get a higher level of labour productivity, you have a higher rate of capacity utilization, that is, a higher rate of occupancy, and a shorter period of sleep for the patient. If a hospital bed post is to do as recommended by the National Audit Office and improve its efficiency – if one has low labour productivity – one can do so by reducing the number of people in the hospital by reducing the number of people in the hospital and by getting a higher number of patients. Such a one-sided focus on efficiency up against this is I'm concerned about, because the factors that then give the outcome in this measurement of labour productivity are factors that we know can be a threat to patient safety. Patient coverings are currently heavily discussed in Health-Noreg. The medical association is very eager that we have to impose a defensive limit on 85 p.m. coatings, but we have not heard from the government party. We are well above the level in the other OECD countries when it comes to how full hospitals we have, and we are the country – except Turkey and Israel – that has the shortest lay times. When it comes to bedtime and patient coverings, which are challenging enough today, it is recommended – if one can put this to the fore – to put it into use to an even greater extent. Patient coverings know that we lead to an increase in patient history, which may lead to more infections in hospitals, which may lead to more medical messages, and it is also seen in relation to the risk of death in patients. On Saturday, Varden wrote about the County Board's supervision report from the Hospital Telemark. It was after a message of concern from the trust elected members of the Association of Young People's Doctors that the Hospital Telemark will open system supervision. On the front of the paper, it said: ‘Nurses are so hectic that they can’t eat or go on doo. Someone's crying on their way home from work." The county doctor has concluded in his final report that the hospital Telemark has had too many patients and too few people added to the job. The patient covering is irresponsibly high in two bedposts. Patients are placed in bedrooms other than our own and are not given a defensive follow-up. In the report, three deaths are linked to situations with high levels of cover, and the background to supervision is that both doctors, nurses and other caregivers must have alerted the employer of the lease without any incident. The reason why I'm taking this up is that these Telemark departments are probably cutting to the top of the Riksrevision's investigation of how productive they are. For me, it's a big paradox that the Storting can really go in and tell us to recommend to the departments that have lower labour productivity, to look at Telemark. It's directly patient dangerous, so that part of the recommendation from the Riksrevision can't be supported. When leaders lack information for control, control and learning, which is also part of the National Audit Office's references, it is a more understandable recommendation. Of course, it must be that the rental has this kind of information, and it shows that it is too poor to rent the hospital today, and it is too poor to rent the patient. This recommendation is not possible if you do not get a real quiet rental at each hospital and at each major hospital department. When it comes to planning manning for variations in the week, there is also a theoretical approach that I have seen that the committee can not be that simple in practice. That's like 70 pst. is immediate help, and even if one in theory is going to print patients for the weekend, it doesn't always happen. However, many hospitals are doing well to try to get localized planning in line with this, and of course it is not the Center Party against this. It's positive. When interacting with other bed items, which is promoted as positive for efficiency, it may also be good. In the notes, we've written a lot of things. It is a value for a nurse to work at a heart mail, and one cannot automatically skip to other departments. It may go wrong, but one has to make it clear that in case this has to happen in collaboration with the people involved, so that one can guarantee that one has the competence to do what is to be done, because there may be some differences between the types of patients you have admitted. Those were my comments on this revision. As I said, this is the case with a coating percentage and shorter lay times that I found very problematic that the Stortinget now enters and recommends hospitals to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1810	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Case No. 7–14 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1906	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1912	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e1919	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament 7 to 15, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 16-18, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7-18, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that, in accordance with Article 9 of the Berne Convention, Norway may be exempted from liability for an autonomous wolf population for the purposes of property interests, livestock farming, grazing and Sami commercial interests.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks that, in line with Article 11 of the Berne Convention, a pilot study on the introduction of Finnish-Russian wolf in Norway is carried out in an efficient and acceptable way in relation to the impact on local population, industrial interests, Sami interests and private property.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to interpret the Berne Convention widely when it is used as a basis for predatory policy and to include Articles 2, 3, 9 and 11 as a basis for policy-making.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce equal hunting time for wolves throughout the country, from 1 October to 31 March.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the hunting of the wolf is carried out also within the management area of the wolf.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to allow the use of loose on a driven neck dog during the search for a licence and the fall for damage on a wolf.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to grant a penitentiary permit without prior application to wolves in priority grazing areas outside the wolf zone before and during the grazing season.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of standing grounding permits within the anti-tank fence.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start work to identify the proportion of wild game loss caused by predators.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to base a population based on the actual number of young people each year and not on the average of the last three years’ documented data.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought back if there is a potential risk that parasites and infectious diseases will be involved in the replication of wolves in Norway.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to pay greater attention to industrial development, property interests, livestock farming, pasturage and Sami industrial interests in the interpretation of the Berne Convention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2004	There is a vote on proposals Nos 1 to 6 from the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks for the first step in the escalation of the stock target for wolves in Norway to be set at 8 to 12 family groups including border revirons, of which at least 6 are native young.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks to change today’s wolf zone as follows: the areas located north of today’s wolf zone, bounded by Glomma, 30 and beyond along the road to the 217 district to the Nyseter basin, from the Nyseter basin in a straight line to the Stnerta bridge and further along the Trysil/Femund watercourse, are included in the new wolf zone. Furthermore, the areas west of Glomma in the municipalities of Kongsvinger, Grue and Süd-Odal in Hedmark, and those parts of Akershus located west of Glomma, north of Øyeren and east of Nitelva, and those parts of Trysil municipality bounded by the area lying north of a straight line from where Senna runs out in Trysil/Femundvassträget to where the municipality boundary between Trysil and Engerdal makes an angle at Littleshøye, shall be removed from the zone.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the wolf zone, and to come back with proposals to increase the responsibility of Norway for a viable Scandinavian wolf population.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a mechanism for the State budget to enable the municipalities in the wolf zone to apply for funds for conflict mitigation and loss prevention.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a national programme for the systematic development of harm prevention measures for the grazing industry.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests testing of risk-based substitution schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2079	It's going to add up to I and VI. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2093	It shall be added to II, III, IV and V. The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2138	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 3-7, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3-7, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the number of juveniles for the four large predators in Sami areas and to consider a reduction based on the burden-sharing principle.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the withdrawal of yew in the reindeer pastures prior to calving if the quotas for yews in the region have not been withdrawn during the ordinary licence hunt.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to establish a standing permission for the killing of you in southern Sami reindeer areas outside the predatory zone.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Namdalen is also included in the test scheme for the administration of the royal eagle, with a particular focus on the effects of the combination of the reindeer, bear and king eagle for the reindeer.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The decision asks the government to amend the Roofing Game Regulation § 12 in order to allow the killing of eagles to be granted before the occurrence of a damage.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2184	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the effects of predatory policies on the Sami reindeer industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for funds to be made available for exceptional preventive measures during the calving period for pure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2245	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2256	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The central party has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that there were 92 votes in favour and 6 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.32.18]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2267	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2272	Then we'll correct it. Then the law's title and the law in its entirety were passed by 93 votes to 6. The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2307	Case No. 7–14 concerns the second processing of legal acts and applies to the legislative acts from 71 to 78. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-06-06.ana.ud291e2422	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want something odd before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
