ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e93	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor and councillor Lars Roar Langslet is dead, 79 years old. Lars Roar Langslet was born in Nesbyen in Hallingdal on March 3, 1936. After graduating artium in 1953 and master's degree in 1962 he was a research fellow before he was appointed as a university lecturer in Idea History in 1968. During the study period, Langslet, among others, was Chairman of the Conservative Student Association and Chairman of the Norwegian Student Society. In 1957 he was the prime engine behind the establishment of Minervas Quarterly and was one of the editors until 1968. Lars Roar Langslet was elected to Stortinget from Oslo in 1969. He was on the Church and Education Committee from 1969 to 1980. He was chairman of the Committee from 1973 to the autumn of 1980, when he joined the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. When Kåre Willoch formed the government in the autumn of 1981, Langslet was appointed Minister of Culture and Science and had this post of government in the spring of 1986. Back on the Stortinget, Langslet sat first in the Consumer and Administrative Committee and then two years in the Church and Education Committee. He went out of the Storing in 1989. Of course, this brief summary of the Langslet Year of National Policy says little about his great – and sometimes crucial – significance in many areas. For many years he was the most important speaker in education policy and in cultural and media policy issues. As a state council, he was the man who dissolved the NRK monopoly. His council was also a time of flourishing in Norwegian culture and significant growth in research and higher education. The length was also one of the main contributors to the removal of the co-norm policy in Norway. After Langslet left Stortinget, he was first cultural director in Oslo and then long-standing cultural writer in the Evening Post. In 1997, he became a State Fellow. In these years he established himself as one of our leading cinemas – with an incredible breadth of subject selection – from Olav the Holy to John Lyng, among others. via Ludwig Holberg and King Christian Frederik. In addition, he wrote a number of books on art and culture and on political issues, including: on conservatism in Norway. Lars Roar Langslet had a number of public offices, including: as chairman of the National Committee for the Ibsen Anniversary and Chairman of the Management Board for Eidsvoll 2014. He received a number of honours and was among others. Commander of the Order of St. Olav and Commander of the Order of Dannebrog. We remember Lars Roar Langslet for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e112	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen, Gunvor Eldegard, Anette Trettebergstien, Else-May Botten, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Anna Ljunggren, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Bjørn Lødemel, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Sonja Mandt, Magne Rommetveir and Rasmus Hansson, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Filip Rygg, is now taking the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on welfare leave of the representative Iselin Nybø from 29 March onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on health leave for the representative Tor André Johnsen from 29 March onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Rogaland County: Svein Abrahamsen For Hedmark County: Hege Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e197	Svein Abrahamsen is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e205	The representative, Mr Micasen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e208	On behalf of the representatives of Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ruth Grung, Ingvild Kjerkol, Freddy de Ruiter, Kari Henriksen and myself, I am delighted to propose the implementation of mobile health technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e213	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e217	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Q. Raja, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on measures for women in refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e222	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e238	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e245	In the bill, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation proposes changes to the municipal law by suspending access to joint municipal councils. It is proposed that the change be implemented as soon as possible. The Ministry further proposes that existing joint municipal councils should be closed by 1 January 2020 at the latest. The legal provisions of the municipal law and the specific legislation relating to joint municipalities will apply to existing joint municipal cooperation until the winding-up is completed. The background for the closure of the joint municipality as a model is that there is now a municipal reform. It is a much better solution to make the municipalities large enough to perform the tasks and services they have done within the framework of a joint municipality. The co-municipal model leads to more complex management and may weaken transparency and control as important decisions are moved from elected bodies to autonomous inter-municipal cooperation. Local democracy, therefore, is better protected when one has a direct line from the voters to the political responsibility. The model is also very small in use. Only two joint municipal councils have been established since it was legalised in 2012, the Inherred joint municipal council and the Middle Namdal joint municipal council, both in my state. The proposal to wind up the model will reduce the total number of available inter-municipal cooperation models and thus simplify the legislation applicable to inter-municipal cooperation. The proposal will be implemented by repealing Chapter 5(B) of the Local Government Act. The proposal has met with few counter performances, and I note the recording from the Mid Namdal joint municipality. They write that they believe that the co-municipal model gives a stronger ownership of the services of the participating municipalities than the host municipality model provides. It tells me that larger communities with stronger trade unions provide a better service to their inhabitants, and then community reunification should be the solution for that region. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, note that KS, representing all Norwegian municipalities, wants to wind up the scheme. KS writes: The ‘KS’ principle view is that local democracy should be maintained through directly elected public bodies. KS therefore supports the proposal to repeal Chapter 5B of the Municipal Law – Samkommune.’.» Furthermore, the majority believe that when a joint municipal council is to be wound up, it is natural to view this as a reversal of the process of transferring authority to the joint municipal council. The authority and responsibility are returned to the individual municipality responsible for its inhabitants. The majority of the Committee understands the need for transitional arrangements for the smooth functioning of the activities of the two joint municipalities. It is planned to wind up on 1 January 2020, which will give municipalities time to find alternative solutions. Furthermore, the majority refer to the legislative proposal and to the special remarks in the proposal. The majority have also taken note of the proposal in I to amend Section 28-2(a). 1, so that there is no longer access to the establishment of joint municipal councils or to existing joint municipal cooperation. At the same time, there is a proposal in I to repeal Chapter 5 of the Samkommune. Proposals for legislative acts involve the repeal of a chapter of the law while amending one of the provisions of the same chapter. Since this might raise doubts as to the provisions of the Local Government Act to be applied, the majority of the Committee would point specifically to the relationship between I and VII. In VII it is stated that the King may implement the individual provisions at different times and that Chapter 5 B of the Municipal Law applies to existing municipalities until they are terminated. Furthermore, something that may be a misunderstanding has crept into the setting. The majority have presented in the configuration individual legislative and linguistic proposals for adjustment, including: in order to clarify the relationship between I and VII of the draft legislative act in order to avoid any doubt as to the provisions of the local law that apply. This majority comment also states that the Committee has proposed an amendment to VII. For the sake of order, it must be the majority who propose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e269	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the introduction and clarification – that was very nice. It is such that the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation in this proposal proposes to refuse further operation of the joint municipal model after 1 January 2020 and with this proposal runs completely over any decision in which local democracy itself has seen reason. The proposal is linked to the government's municipal reform and the government's strong desire to coerce municipalities, and that is also the only argument put forward by the department in this matter. That is an honest thing to say, but there is no particular trust in near-democracy. Here, municipalities have established forms of cooperation in which the municipalities involved seem to be satisfied. On the other hand, the Ministry and the government parties, together with the supporting parties, consider something different, and they force that cooperation to be phased out, with the sole reason that this does not fit in with the government's desire to bring together the most possible municipalities – regardless of what local democracy may think about it. This is also written by the department in this document, where it says that the department believes that a community merger is a better model. It is also worth noting that when the majority will adopt the winding-up of the joint municipal councils, these municipalities must themselves provide for the costs of winding-up determined by the majority of the population, and that these costs must be borne entirely by these municipalities. It could perhaps be expected that the Ministry, the Council of State and the majority could have assisted a little in terms of the costs of winding up which the municipalities themselves have not requested, but which they have introduced under a applicable law, for which there was a possibility. The Labour Party agrees that it should not be opened up for the establishment of new joint municipal councils. The possibility of this, as was said, has been in place since 2012, and it is quite easy to note that the upswing around the co-municipal model has been very limited. Therefore, in our comments on the matter, we have mentioned from the Labour Party that it should no longer be possible to establish new joint municipalities. The Labour Party therefore makes the following proposal in the case: ‘The government is asking for proposals to wind up the joint municipal model at the time when no municipality anymore uses the inter-municipal cooperation model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e283	I expect that the representative will also address the proposal that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e286	He will.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e291	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås then brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e294	The dissolution of the joint municipal model means the strengthening of the primary municipalities. The co-municipal model was a model designed to move direct elected power into a new autonomous administrative body. If, in its time, the scheme was intended as a defence against community reunification, it was at least not an alternative that strengthened the influence and transparency of the elected peoples on behalf of their citizens. In general, the scope of intercommunal cooperation schemes has slowed down in recent years — so not with the variant co-municipality, it is not very widespread, and there are probably good reasons why not many have tried it out. But it is also the case that all the arguments put forward to use the co-municipal model and to keep it, from those who want it, really only one conclusion – if the municipalities involved are unable to solve the tasks to be included in the co-municipality, itself, is the municipal merger that is the natural option. Intermunicipal cooperation has roughly two main reasons. One is a task which is a municipal responsibility, but which in its nature is, for example: has, or may have, a very large geographical distribution which allows it to be cost-effective and sensible for many reasons that several municipalities are joining forces to solve it. I think that in many places it would be said that renovation, for example, is such a task, not because the municipality has to, but because one chooses to say that this is practical, and that is appropriate. But the other reason given for intercommunal cooperation is when a municipality has to stretch its hands in the weather and say that this is a task that we do not have, our municipality is too small, we have too few resources, we are unable to take responsibility for this statutory task, and therefore we simply have to be forced – if you want – to enter into intercommunal cooperation. It's a kind of intermunicipal cooperation that shifts power and influence out of the municipalities. Childcare is a typical example of such a task in which many municipalities do not see themselves able to carry out an important statutory task for their citizens on their own. In the Right, we want strong municipalities that can solve their statutory tasks as much as possible and that can solve them themselves. When the extent of inter-municipal cooperation resulting from the failure of the municipality itself to fulfil its tasks becomes too extensive, the answer should not be to create ever-increasing new inter-municipal companies and cooperation arrangements that shift decision-making power, budgetary power and transparency away from elected bodies. The alternative is equally likely for the local government and local politicians to take control back, but to do so in a new and merged municipality that is large enough and strong enough to carry out its statutory tasks on its own. It is in this light that it is natural to wind up the joint municipal arrangement. If the co-operation needs are as wide as the co-operative system provided, the solution is not more complex management, less transparency and less popular control. Then the solution is to build a new municipality that can solve the problems for citizens and businesses, but with the local government and the directly elected people as the top responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e307	I want to start by thanking the case manager, André N. Skelstad, for a review of the case. The representative is perhaps the one who has the most knowledge and commitment to this liquidation and this matter, when both of the two copies of the joint municipal councils who have taken this paragraph into use are from his homeland, the Nord-Trundelag. The Committee was delighted to visit the Nord-Trøndelag some time ago and then received information on the joint municipal model. I have to say, for my part, that I was not impressed with the fact that this was a good model for how to solve the tasks for the local government sector. The fact that only two municipalities in Norway have implemented this scheme also indicates that very few people thought it was a good idea in the first place. I had the pleasure – when I told myself about this debate – to follow the debate from 2011, when one introduced this scheme in the municipal law, based first on a testing scheme. I have to say that this debate was a little bit strange. The working party was more doubtful about the co-municipal model at the time they are today – at least because of the impression I got from the post from Lauvås, they were much more doubtful at the time. When we see in the setting today that the Workers' Party is also united in liquidation, and we have read their twofold posts in 2011, one can almost assume that this was a Heart Child at the Center Party, which they got in that government cooperation, because very few others were followers of the community model. KS's main board was in agreement in 2011 – there was no call from Kommune-Noreg to get this system. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – it is called the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs at the time – chose to spend a lot of time and energy laying out and making a proposition that no one had asked for and that the Progress Party at the time warned that this was something that the municipalities would not use. We got it right. Therefore, it is nice that today we can resolve something that we said at the time would not be a success, and that we have seen is no success. The main reason why we were opposed in 2011 and that we are still opposed in 2016 is that the ombudsman role is important for the Progress Party, that there should be a link between the voters and those on the municipal board who are direct, and that in a way does not become indirect by the fact that it is others who choose the ones to make decisions. We see that many forms of intermunicipal cooperation weaken the direct connection between the voters and local government. The co-municipal model merges into a series of such cooperations that the electorate cannot meet their ombudsmen, who make decisions directly. This is the main reason why we think that a municipal merger is a much better arrangement, because then it is the voters who choose the local government who carry out the tasks for their constituents. As the joint municipal model and many other intercommunal cooperation work, the municipal government indirectly chooses those who make decisions on behalf of the inhabitants. It is a far worse model of democracy than the directly elected government, which we hold, and which is important to us. For this reason, our clear recommendation – when we have provided many carrots for the municipal merger – that there is a need to cooperate as much as the municipalities and many other intercommunal collaborations do – should be used rather than the possibility that one now has with the municipal reform, to ensure that the proper division can provide good services for the inhabitants in the future. We are glad today that we simplify the municipal law by removing the model that no one has asked for. And it's a pleasure that we with a good plural can also include the Workers' Party in saying that this was a bad idea, and that we can take this model away. The inconsistency goes on at what time we're taking him away. We have made it clear that we do not want more people to put it into practice, and that those in the scheme will have a reasonable transitional arrangement until 2020, which is the same time as we expect a new municipal reform to ensure that new borders are in place. Then have a good time to adapt. So I don't think we should talk about any major costs – and make it a big problem. Distinguishing the co-municipal model will be small money compared to what carrots a get if a rather municipal approximation, which is our recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e328	In this round it was not difficult for the Christian People's Party to come to a conclusion. This is a model that is only three to four years old — adopted in 2012 — and then there is reason to see how many people have ended up about this possibility. When we then see that there are only a few municipalities that have used the chance, there is every reason for the Stortinget to ask questions about whether this is something that will continue. So there has been very little interest in the scheme, and it may be related to the fact that there is little need for the scheme. I know many large and small municipalities that have different needs, different cooperation relationships, and that have different visions for their municipality, but no one has seriously assessed the joint municipal arrangement. In addition, the model may have been wrong, but it may also have had weaknesses as a control model, which has caused municipalities to say no. I have all the respect for the two municipalities that have chosen it, and that it seems to be a good arrangement until further notice. Then I have to explain the position of the Christian People's Party on the basis that we have entered into a cooperation relationship in this great period of a municipal reform. It takes into account much more extensive and longer-term arrangements, where we include: it has been clear that the winding-up of inter-municipal cooperation can be an advantage in strengthening municipal autonomy. We are aware that with extensive inter-municipal cooperation, often — or at least reduced — the popularised influence disappears and in some cases may even be powdered. When, in addition to the reform, we have put in place good reward schemes that can be used by municipalities, while at the same time thinking about the new reform in the long term, there is no doubt that the joint-communist model is going through as a form of organisation in terms of quality, according to my concepts. In addition, this reform will simplify legislation and it is an important principle in the organisation of Norway that laws and everything are simplified but not simplified to reduce local democracy. I'll come back to that a little bit. It is important to first put in place that the Storting has both the duty and the right to ensure that there are good arrangements for municipalities. As far as local democracy is concerned, it can work so well and even better in the new community reform. Now they can consider getting directly elected bodies instead of the joint municipal solution, so that local democracy has been most recently updated in the community reform. So those who criticize and say that taking away the co-municipal model is to get rid of local democracy, turn things upside down in my head. I also need to comment on the use of words such as ‘force’ and ‘force’, but according to my concepts this is an ordinary political treatment, where we are talking about an ordinary majority and a minority. We can't have such a language that every time we lose one thing, we call it coercion. This is ordinary political treatment, and I look forward to having a clean, principled language in this regard. In addition, it is not surprising that the co-municipalisation system is being abolished. The members of the Municipal Committee have been ready on this point for a long time – this is going to happen – and these municipalities have already known the future they are going to meet, and now they have four more years to put this in place. I want these two municipalities and others to be happy at work and will help to ensure that there are good transitional arrangements for these municipalities, so that they get a long-term and good solution for their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e347	The government doesn't like intermunicipal cooperation. It is clear from the premises of the municipal reform. At the same time, the government wants legal support in order to be able to impose inter-municipal cooperation if they believe that distance disadvantages make it difficult to require community reunification. I therefore think that the government's attitude towards inter-municipal cooperation is quite contradictory. I'm afraid the winding-up of the joint municipal model is the first step to restrict access to the establishment of intermunicipal cooperation. It is more a principle decision than a very decisive decision to limit the scope of formalised cooperation solutions between municipalities. As is known, only two joint municipalities are established, both in the Nord-Trøndelag, and both are established as pilot schemes before the model was legalised in 2012. According to the amendments to the laws, no new joint municipal councils are established. The fact that the co-municipal model has not been used by new municipalities since the legislation came into force probably has several reasons. This is a new scheme, which got its legal basis only in 2012. There were many more municipalities that considered the establishment of the joint municipal model as a current form of inter-municipal cooperation, but after the government so clearly went against inter-municipal solutions in general and the joint municipal model in particular, it was not appropriate to proceed with those plans. I think there is reason to mention that the government's fight against inter-municipal cooperation is far from supported in all countries. The municipal committee was recently in Italy. Italy is a country with many and small municipalities and has comparable tasks with the Norwegian municipalities. The average municipality in Norway is more than twice the average municipality in Italy. They also work with a municipal reform, but there they do not talk about merging municipalities, where they talk about stimulating more intermunicipal cooperation, and now they want to establish the joint municipality as an opportunity to organise intercommunal cooperation, to take care of the very small part of the municipal tasks that serve larger units, while at the same time being able to solve the big tasks in existing municipalities. The government's justification for taking the joint municipal model out of the municipal law is one-sidedly linked to the argument that the municipal merger is a better solution than intermunicipal cooperation. I believe that this is a far too narrow a basis for assessing the co-municipal model. In the consultation on the legislative proposal, the Ministry has received opinions from the municipalities behind the two joint municipalities, and they oppose the removal of the legal basis. They include: the co-municipal model provides a stronger sense of ownership for the services included in the cooperation than the host municipality model provides. They also believe that the joint municipal model provides better governance than other forms of inter-municipal cooperation. To this end, the Ministry argues that the option to joint municipal councils is a combination of municipalities, not other forms of intermunicipal cooperation. When we know that the co-municipalities solve problems that limit themselves to 7-8 pst. by the budget, this becomes a far too narrow an approach to meeting the arguments of the municipalities to continue this good model. The central party will oppose the government's proposal to remove access to Chapter 5(B) of the Municipal Law on the establishment of a joint municipality. We believe that any changes to the provisions of the municipal law on intermunicipal cooperation must be based on a comprehensive review of the law, the aim of which is to regulate relevant and functional intercommunal forms of cooperation between municipalities. Intermunicipal cooperation is not a threat to local democracy, but rather a strengthening of it in order to manage limited tasks effectively, for the benefit of citizens. This applies largely to approx. 5 pst. of the tasks of the municipalities. We believe that the solution of the heavy welfare tasks, such as school, care, etc., will be weakened if the municipalities are forced into large municipalities. So the central party wants to maintain the municipal law provisions on joint municipal councils, but in other words we want to support the Workers' Party's proposals, which do not deprive the established joint municipal councils of the possibility of continuing their activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e374	SV will also support the Workers' Party's proposals in the case. I guess not so many people have felt that the co-municipal model has been a child of the heart, but nevertheless I think it is a bad reason the government has when it wants to remove this and set such a tight deadline as it has done for the municipalities that are currently cooperating in this way. There are two such collaborations, so there are many more than two municipalities that have this cooperation. I think, like several of the other speakers, that very little – if any – emphasis has been placed on the points of view, or put in some kind of research effort or something like that, to find out what this actually is, while just sticking to one's own argument that you want community reunification at almost any cost, and that it's a strengthening of local democracy. One might wonder, when there will be many fewer local politicians, for example, or when the municipalities want other forms of cooperation where they see themselves serving it. I wonder when cooperation became negative, because as both the government and the supporting parties now speak, it seems that when someone cooperates, there is something negative, something scary, which destroys democracy, and which one should have less of, while from the SV we think that these are good solutions. Intermunicipal cooperation is also not something that disappears with larger municipalities. Large municipalities have a lot of intermunicipal cooperation and will have it in the future, because it is necessary to have it, if you do not dare to lift any of those tasks up to a county or region level. We're waiting in excitement to see what the government's going to do there. You should do that instead of talking that level down, because that could be an opportunity. But the way you talk about cooperation and problematize it very, matches very badly with the municipal map we have, and the municipal map we're going to get, because some of the big municipalities cooperate more with each other than the small municipalities do. You can also look at the quality of the cooperation that exists. Some of the government's argument is to strengthen the professional quality of some of the offers of a community merger, while very little attention is paid to the quality of the inter-communal collaborations that are actually taking place and that in my opinion are very good. To the question of economics, you can also wonder, because the municipalities that have been willing to join together have not only received carrots, but have also received extra gifts not long ago. Without any justification, they got 2 million municipalities. kr each, while municipalities which are now required and forced by this law either to settle in individual municipalities again, or to merge in a large municipality, shall not receive assistance from the State to finance the expenditure associated with it. I have to say that I think it's a little bit petty, simply, a little greedy. With regard to the transitional arrangements which have now been introduced as a decoy to the merged municipalities, the deadline expires on 1 July, so within that period it is absolutely impossible for these municipalities to merge. We haven't dealt with the income system. We'll see what the government comes with, but as it looks like right now, at the hearing, most of these municipalities will anyway lose on the system that the government and maybe the majority here in the Stortinget want. So when it comes to saying that there's kind of some good carrots for these municipalities when they merge, there's a lot of uncertainty about that. So I don't think you should say that until you put those numbers clearly on the table. In addition to these figures, it should also be shown what kind of effects a community merger will have on the system of reduced employers’ fees after 2021, because if a municipality with a low employer’s fee is taken together with a high employer’s fee, there is little evidence that not everyone will receive a high employer’s fee after 2021. There may be very large numbers for the companies in the municipalities, so all of these numbers should be put on the table before you claim that there are some positive carrots for these municipalities that are now co-municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e393	I can, in essence, join in the speech by the case-rapporteur, André N. Skkelstad, who gives a good reason why the joint municipal model should be abandoned. It is also true, as stated in the debate, that the liquidation of the joint municipal model is linked to the municipal reform that is now taking place. Since the previous municipal reform, which was carried out more than 50 years ago, municipalities have been given many new, important tasks, and it is a reality that many municipalities are too small for the major tasks they have been given responsibility for. That's why we've over time seen more state detail management and a great deal of inter-municipal cooperation. The government's ambition is to facilitate strong welfare municipalities and a living local democracy. We want to build on what is the Norwegian and Nordic tradition, that the municipalities have great local autonomy, and that they are responsible for many broad welfare tasks. It is amazing that the Central Party in this debate is beginning to use southern European countries as an example of local democracy in Norway. We want to build on what is the Norwegian tradition, and there we are facing a crossroads at both local and national level – either to continue a trend towards more state-level detailed governance, more inter-municipal cooperation, to move tasks from local democracy, or to build stronger welfare municipalities that can have a greater local autonomy. That's the real choice we're facing at large. Now, when we have chosen to propose to wind up the joint municipal model, it is because the joint municipal model provides for very broad cooperation and a more complex local administration. Of course, we will also have intercommunal cooperation after the municipal reform, but our ambition is that more tasks, more responsibility, should be moved back to the local government hall, where local elected representatives have responsibility, and not into various intercommunal cooperative constellations. We believe that bundling is a better solution for municipalities that need such extensive cooperation as the joint municipal council proposes. Let me also show that the government has notified over time that the joint municipality would be wound up. It was announced in a previous municipal bill, so this has been predictable for the municipalities. In the consultation round, 30 hearings have taken place. Of these, only 6 are essentially opposed to the proposal. And the government's proposal, to which a majority in the UK joins, also has the support of KS – the local government's own organisation. The Ministry also held its own hearing with the municipalities concerned. We now give municipalities a good liquidation period and good opportunities to assess other alternatives. Finally, let me just say to Karin Andersen, who raised the question of a differentiated employer's fee, that this question has been clarified by the government in letters to the municipalities and county councillors. And to Stein Erik Lauvås, who talks about the government's strong desire to coerce municipalities: Where did the representative come from? According to the Municipal Report, between 100 and 200 municipalities have now entered into commitment agreements to build stronger welfare municipalities. This shows that politicians locally from all parties are engaged in maintaining the Norwegian and Nordic tradition of strong welfare municipalities with large local autonomy. Our national task should be to promote those local politicians who are now taking the lead and building stronger welfare municipalities to the delight of their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e413	The council wondered where the undersigned had it from that the government was for the coercion of municipalities. Then I can only inform the Council of State that I have it from his own mouth and his own representatives. That is what they have said, and then you can look at the proposal for the income system that exists. But if we are going to stick to the case, which concerns the joint municipal/co-municipal model: it stands for fall – I think it is very clear to us. And maybe it might seem like a little detail, it was made like that, that the liquidation of this would not cost much money. Then I just want to ask the Council of State, does he have any idea what it will cost? If it costs NOK 1000, NOK 100000 or SEK 2 million. kr – which is already a known number – to liquidate this? And why does he think that the municipalities should stand for this themselves, when they now get this decision step down their heads? At least they didn't ask for it themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e420	Now, as it may seem, it is a majority in the Grand Duchy, the National Assembly of the country, which makes the decision that the joint municipal councils should be wound up. The reasons are given in the vote and also presented by the majority here in Stortinget. We haven't calculated what this will cost, but we assume that this can be covered within the municipalities' own revenues. They now have a good and predictable period to liquidate this. But when the representative Lauvås now repeats this with the government's strong desire to coerce municipalities and says that he has it from the Council of State's own mouth, I must almost ask the representative to document it. I have used the same wording as in the Workers' Party's Grand Election Programme, not the wording that the representative now puts in my mouth and in the mouth of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e425	The government comes up with ever new measures to force municipalities to merge, even if they don't want to. We've got the new income system, which is going to force through municipal mergers, and now there's going to be a constraint on continuing this model that we're discussing here today. After the government change in 2013, cooperation has become a musculoskeletal word. The government clearly gives the impression that inter-municipal cooperation is a herd. Municipalities, both small and large, believe that intermunicipal cooperation provides better services to citizens. Is it the case that the government will also tighten its feet under other inter-municipal cooperation models? It is true that municipalities believe they provide better services when they can make use of inter-municipal cooperation on the small percentage of five percent they think they are not doing the best on their own. Is it now that the Council of State is considering removing other models of inter-municipal cooperation as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e432	It is not true that the income system contributes to the coercion of municipalities. The challenge with today's income system is that it freezes into an obsolete municipal structure. An income system that makes it unprofitable for many municipalities to merge is contrary to the broad majority of the Storting that believes that we should have stronger welfare municipalities. Nor is it that the government is against cooperation. We're for cooperation. In some areas, inter-municipal cooperation can be sensible and appropriate. But it should also be a problem for the Central Party, which otherwise says that one is in favour of a living local democracy, to facilitate the lifting of more and more tasks out of the local government hall and into various intercommunal cooperation constellations. So this council has no plans to wind up other intercommunal cooperation arrangements. We will continue to have them, but it is our clear desire to strengthen local democracy and move more tasks and more of responsibility back to the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e441	I don't think we ever agree that coercion of municipalities is strengthening local democracy. Municipalities are now forced to join the municipality because of the income system and because they lose future income. I guess there's no doubt about it. I can therefore be absolutely sure that there will be no changes in other forms of inter-municipal cooperation, that the government will not consider the prohibition of other forms of inter-municipal cooperation, and that we will continue to have good inter-municipal cooperation in the future which will enable them to provide better services in the narrow areas of inter-municipal cooperation and better services in the broad areas because they will continue as their own municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e448	The last thing's not related. When municipalities can provide better services because of intermunicipal cooperation, this means that municipalities are too small. This is the reality: many municipalities are too small for the big tasks they are responsible for. This means that we've gained too much intercommunal cooperation. It is a problem that many municipalities face challenges in following and controlling intercommunal cooperation. An audit report for the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen concluded that local politicians were in a state of crisis due to the scale of inter-municipal cooperation. This should also concern the Centre Party. The alternative to stronger welfare municipalities is not that things continue as before. We are in a different situation now – the municipalities have received several tasks. We have a different economic outlook, which makes it challenging for the local economy in the years to come. This means that it is our responsibility as leading national politicians to think about how to facilitate a living local democracy and strong welfare communities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e453	Now a lot of studies show that it's not the size it depends on now on the quality of well-being. And there will be no less mountains and less distances in the country if you combine some municipalities that today have few people but large areas. When the government now clearly believes that there should be some sort of revolution in the ability to provide good services, it remains to explain how it should be done. Something else is that the income system that the government sent out at the hearing shows that all the municipalities that have about 10,000 to a little over 20,000 people, also going to lose. There are quite large municipalities in the Norwegian context. In my county, you can merge a lot of municipalities – almost half of South Norway – into a municipality without a population of 20,000. Does this mean that the government is going to hold on to the fact that all municipalities that are also in such a magnitude are going to lose on the new income system in order to force them to join together to become even larger?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e460	Now, I guess that question isn't exactly related to the proposition we're now discussing. The government has chosen to have the new income system consulted. Unlike what the Stoltenberg government did, we have chosen to send it out to the hearing. And when we have it out for consultation, we also intend to hear. So here there are assessments in the ministry and conversations with our cooperation parties, and then the matter is presented in the municipal proposition. Let me just show that the government from day one has been clear that the local reform must take account of Norway's diverse geography. That's why we haven't set an exact limit on how many people there should be. The same principle underlies the income system, where municipalities with few inhabitants, large areas, are well compensated – by maintaining regional policy subsidies, and by allowing municipalities with large distances to receive full basic subsidies and also to be compensated through the cost keys. We take into account Norway's diverse geography in the work of the community reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e472	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e477	It is a little surprising to hear from both the representative of Lauvås and the last, but not least the representative of Greni, who has a great tribute to indirect democracy. I thought that all three parties were strong supporters of local democracy and perhaps not least of building down double administration, which is partly also in the co-municipal model. But what surprises me the most is that when one is going to show the excellence of the model, one refers to the Italian administration, which is now obviously the leading star of the Center Party. I think that's amazing, but it's also very clarifying, when we're going to debate for the future, that the Italian administration is then the leader of the Center Party. KS was incredibly clear with regard to the joint municipal model. I've also taken note of that, that here you want to wind up. The representative, Karin Andersen, deals with this with cooperation. Yes, one has to cooperate further, regardless of the size of the municipalities. That is not the negative thing here – it is an indirect democracy that builds up some double bureaucracy, and it is not the left of it. Then I think it is fully possible, even in the future, to find good solutions for a differentiation of the employer's fee in municipalities that are merged. I think that's quite possible. And when one then goes empty of arguments in the line of argument around this resistance to the joint-communist, then one starts bringing in a lot of other themes. I thought first of all that it was the liquidation of the joint municipality that we were going to debate today, and I am glad that it is now happening, because it is part of strengthening local democracy around Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e490	The last talk made me have to take the word again. So, the main thread for the Center Party is good services for the inhabitants. The thread is respect for local democracy. And both of these things are missing in this discussion, both the one we have about the community reform, and the one we have here today. When I mentioned Italy in my post, it was almost a curiosity because the committee was there traveling just before Easter. They now had a form of municipal reform in which they tried to introduce a co-municipal model, because they thought the service was the best solution. What we're talking about, when we're discussing inter-municipal cooperation, is that approximately. 5 pst. by the tasks of a municipality are solved through inter-municipal cooperation, and approx. 95 pst. be resolved in its own municipality. What it's like now, I don't know, but at an earlier time, Trondheim and Bergen had intercommunal cooperation on the ICT side. It worked well, and it was a good solution for the two municipalities. There is no one in this room who thinks you should join Trondheim and Bergen for that reason. Intermunicipal cooperation has quite different sizes based on which services it is. Technical services such as: Renovation may have 10–15 municipalities together. The child protection system may have four to five municipalities together. In the trøndelagsfolken, both Nord- und Süd-Trøndelag, all municipalities have intermunicipal cooperation on archive services. Is it then intended that we merge all the municipalities in the Southern and Northern Tributes of one municipality in order to avoid inter-municipal cooperation? What's the problem in this case, especially with the community reform, is that it's not the inhabitants and the service production that's in focus, but it's the structure. There is no doubt that the major areas of service such as school, care for the elderly, home care, kindergarten, etc. best addressed when having services close to the population. Look at developments in Denmark after the municipal reform. What are their wages and salaries earned? Well, it's about the closure of schools, the closure of kindergartens, the closure of libraries, a greater distance from the services of the population. So intermunicipal cooperation, I hope we see at least as much of it in the future, because it provides better services to the inhabitants, not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e519	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to six lines, with replies from members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e526	The legislative changes to be adopted now are a direct follow-up to the Report. St. 18 for 2014-2015, on structural reform in the university and higher education sectors. I think it's worth mentioning that it's worked well with the committee, and I therefore thank you for good cooperation. The bill is about what should be the model of governance of the institutions – whether it should be an employee or an elected principal, and whether it should be an external director or an external director. It is proposed that the Governing Board should decide this by a simple majority, not by a two-thirds majority as in the past. At the same time, the majority proposes that the normal model in the sector should be employed by the Vice-Chancellor and the external director. There is no requirement for any institution to change its governance. If the majority wants to operate according to the governance model you have today, you can continue to do so. It is the Ministry that appoints the people of the Governing Board, but the Workers' Party will stress that it is wise to consult the institution in advance, so that current names from the point of view of the institution are included in the assessment. There is a difference of view as to whether one model of management is better than the other, and there are arguments both for and against. With this decision, institutions will remain free to choose, making it difficult to call it a dramatic change. But it'll be easier to change the model. What the Committee agrees on is that good strategic management is increasingly important. Institutions in the higher education sector are experiencing high expectations around them. They have a central role to play in knowledge development in most areas, while being very important in developing society and business in demanding and changing times. They live in an environment characterised by increased competition, internationalisation, demands for better quality in both research and education and increased expectations related to cooperation with industry and for the dissemination of research. In addition, it is the most important thing: they must train the labour force of the future. The political will to invest in this sector is strong, but with an increased financial framework, there are expectations and demands related to what universities and colleges provide. If the institutions are to succeed in the social mission, leaders are required to think strategically, who treat people well, and who manage the knowledge-intensive environments that they actually are. It must be possible to expect systematic work to limit the temporaryity of the sector and to increase diversity. Women's share is too low at the top of the academy, and it's more demanding to make academic careers with minority backgrounds. Both parts should be a management responsibility. For us as a society, it is essential that the best people choose to use their talent in research, knowledge development and education. Therefore, good personnel and knowledge management are very important characteristics of academic leaders. Regardless of the choice of the management model, the sector should note that the Committee is very concerned about this. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e552	The American politician and lawyer Wendell Willkie in his time stated that education is the mother of all good management. I think everyone will agree to that. In this context, it is also easy to see the importance of the optimal management of our educational institutions. Both the Productivity Commission and several others have pointed out how important it is for Norway and our future cultural and value creation that our educational institutions must be of high quality. Good governance and management are important for high-quality education and research. The Progress Party agrees with the Government that the model of external directors provides the most appropriate means of recruiting the best-qualified management and gives the Board a clearer and more independent role towards the day-to-day management of the institution. Good governance becomes more important and important to maintain legitimacy towards society, good financial management, delivering good candidates and ensuring good and relevant research. The progress party believes that the treatment of this matter has been good, and that we have achieved a good result, even though we would have liked to have been even clearer that it is the Vice-Chancellor and the external director to be in force. The result is in any case a big step in the right direction, with a high degree of cross-political digestion. We in the Progress Party are therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the amendment of the law that makes the head of staff and the external director of the board the main management model in this sector. However, it will be possible for those boards where a majority wishes to elect elected management to choose such a model, but the choice between the two different models will now become more real by determining the management model by a general majority rather than by a two-thirds majority. With regard to the appointment of the Governing Board, the majority agree that it would be both natural and wise for the Ministry to consult the institutions in an appropriate manner prior to the appointment, so as to be able to record possible names, both as Chairperson and as members of the Governing Board. The Progress Party is also pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal that the Department appoints the Chairperson on a free basis and without a proposal from the Vice-Chancellor, that the Board of Directors may change its composition by a general majority, and that the remuneration of the Board of Directors is determined by the Department. The Progress Party is clearly of the opinion that these proposals will provide the basis for good and strategic leadership at the country's higher education institutions, which will further contribute to achieving our goal of improving the quality of Norwegian research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e567	This is the second round in a very short time when the government is promoting proposals for changes in the procedures and composition of management at the national colleges and universities. In the examination of the structural notification last year, the Centre Party was among others: occupied by the appointment of the external members of the Management Board. We are committed to safeguarding the regional perspective, and we therefore made proposals in line with this at the time. The central party is concerned with the importance of the regional link between the educational institutions and the county municipalities as the regionally elected level. The county has, as is known, inter alia: responsibility for the competence of secondary and secondary schools and regional development. We therefore believed that it would be natural for regional governments to continue to have a formal influence on representation in the boards of universities and colleges, just as the central authorities of the department. Unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber chose to follow the government and to abolish this link. In the proposition currently under consideration, it is partly the same arguments that are being put forward. In the proposition, the government proposes to amend what the current law defines as the main model for the management structure of higher education institutions. In the law in force, as mentioned above, management has been chosen. Many institutions continue to elect Vice-Chancellors; others have once again transferred to senior management. In both cases, it is essential that management has a high level of competence and legitimacy. The central party believes that the institutions are best placed to assess which management is best suited to their place of study. Sickness if elected management is the main model today, it is fully possible for institutions to move to employee management if they so wish. The centre party sees advantages and disadvantages of both elected and employed management. The hearing also showed that different universities and higher education institutions have made different assessments. Since the law already opens for both models, the centre party believes that it is unnecessary to highlight one preferred model. We believe that both models should be equated. In this respect, I refer to the proposal from the Central Party and the SV and I am promoting this proposal. The proposal also proposes that the Governing Board should be able to adopt the governance model and changes in the composition of the Board by a general majority. The amendment to the majority requirement is justified by the desire to give institutions more autonomy of choice. This is in agreement with the Centre Party. In addition, I would like to add that both the freedom of choice in terms of the management model and the requirement for a simple majority will be important in order to underline the maritime position and the role of society of institutions. On this basis, it is incomprehensible to us that the government will limit the ability of management to propose candidates to the board. It is therefore proposed that institutions with an employed principal should no longer be able to propose to the head of the department when the board submits proposals to external members. The proposal is justified by the fact that the Ministry is required by law to appoint the Chairperson on a free basis. It's very funny, and the government is basically saying this just that it's bureaucracy and political leadership in the Ministry of Knowledge that knows best at all times, not those who sit tight on the institution – i.e. more centralisation of decisions. The central party believes that the changes in the law and structural change in the university and higher education sectors are enough to reduce the influence of the regions on the main knowledge and competence institutions regionally in favour of centralised sector governance. We believe this is both unwise and short-sighted. We are afraid it can lead to more uniformity of education and loss of innovation locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e584	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e587	The proposal under consideration today concerns several minor changes in the Law on Higher Education, which all have in common that they should contribute to strengthening the management of universities and colleges. The type of management that will be in place at universities and colleges has been discussed for a long time, and what we are talking about today is a slight rotation of the law, ranging from choosing management by the institution as the main model for the head of staff and external directors to be the main model for the management of the institution. However, the Governing Board will continue to be able to decide by the institution itself which model to apply, and it may do so on the basis of a general majority, not as at present, where a transition from elected to appointed principal must have two thirds of the voting rights of the Board in order to make the change. There are divided opinions about whether the best management of universities and colleges is achieved through democratically elected principal or by employing a leader through a thorough recruitment process. Some people think that the change proposed is rocking by democratic values. However, I can't see that having a model where the board can choose a model even by a simple majority is a matter of democratic principles. What is important is that we ensure that institutions are independent entities responsible for professional priorities and free research. A well-managed, well-managed and well-managed higher education sector is important for students, employees and society as a whole. I believe it is important that the management of universities and colleges, which are important social actors, have both the right and the high competence and are recruited for processes that have legitimacy both within and outside the institutions. The experience we have from today's system is that there are often low turnouts and few candidates who are present at Norwegian rectorial elections. That is why I think it should be easier to choose another management model, and that is exactly what we are doing in this case. There will always be advantages and disadvantages of different models, but I think a clear advantage of a management model where the principal is employed and one has an external director is that one gets a broader grasp of candidates, and one avoids that a principal who is elected acts both as a secretary and as a leader and at the same time is the one who is to implement the decisions made by the board. Today we have institutions where some of the principals are employed and others are elected. It is not possible to draw any conclusion from the examples we have today, but I think it is good that we now make those changes in the direction that it should be easier to go from one preferred model to another. It is also worth noting that a large majority of international leading institutions do not have schemes with elected principals similar to those we have in Norway. In both Sweden, Denmark and Finland, it is most common with an employed principal and external director. In addition, the Law of Higher Education amends the point where it no longer requires institutions to propose who should be the Chairman of the Board when submitting proposals to external directors to the departments. Changes will also be made to the majority requirement currently in force to change the composition of the Management Board. The Governing Board itself shall now be able to adopt, by a general majority, the changes in the composition of the Governing Board. Finally, changes will also be made to the person empowered to establish remuneration for the Management Board. Today, the board itself sets out its remuneration, and I agree that it may be fundamentally unlucky and therefore supports the proposal that it should be the department that determines this in the future. These changes in the Law on Higher Education are part of a wide range of quality promotion measures designed to facilitate more robust professional environments and the development of the university and higher education sectors. In the case of higher education and research, the government has strengthened the funding of universities and higher education institutions strongly since the government shift in 2013. In addition, the government has promoted a long-term research and higher education plan, a strategy to strengthen research and innovation efforts with the EU and a key communication on structural changes to ensure high quality in the university and higher education sectors. In the current year’s budget there is a significant increase in the appropriations for research and development. Public funding for research and development is now estimated for the first time at more than 1 pst. of gross domestic product. The government has also announced that there will be its own survey on quality in higher education. All of this helps us to be better equipped to meet the future, better equipped to create new jobs and develop those we already have, so that we can take care of the good welfare arrangements that characterize our society today. That's the knowledge we're going to live from, human capital is our greatest resource. Then it is important that we adapt, adjust the course and rate to what we know will be our priority – and that is in the light of what we are amending the Law on Higher Education: We want stronger and more robust institutions. These legislative changes will contribute to the overall strengthening of the governance and management of our universities and colleges and are an important part of strengthening the quality of our universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e613	In this case, the management model at colleges and universities has been the main issue. Should the principal model be chosen or employed? Should there be enough general majority to decide this? This has been discussed for a long time, and I notice that the hearing bodies are divided into views on this. The left supports the amendment of the law which makes the head of staff and the external director of the board the main management model in the sector, while allowing institutions to choose a model with the elected principal, if a majority of the board so wishes. Our starting point for this is that we will have several leading, internationalised and diverse research and education environments that will be represented among the world's leading. In this context, good governance models are one of several important instruments. I notice that an overall committee indicates that good strategic management of universities and colleges is of increasing importance, regardless of the choice of management model. Universities and colleges are complex organisations, and good leadership is required to best manage the wide range of tasks they have, and to adapt to ever-changing demands and expectations. This is not least important in the current structural reform of the sector, where just good leadership is a prerequisite for successful mergers. Today, through the Law of the University and Higher Education Act, the Stortinget has established that the principal model is elected by the Vice-Chancellor. Despite this, several universities and colleges have made their own assessments of what is best for them and have chosen to employ the principal. Even though the principal is now the main model of the law, it is important for us that the institutions can continue with the elected principal, or move on to it, if they consider it the best for their own institution. There are many examples from the sector that both the employee and the elected principal can work well. A 2013 NIFU report found that the institutions studied had improved on strategic governance. It seemed crucial not to be the management model itself, but rather to be the internal dynamics of the institutions. It is about changing relations with the Ministry of Knowledge and the professional and institutional traditions and history of the institutions. The left considers it important that institutions have real freedom to choose their own management model. Because even after the structural reform, universities and colleges will vary in size and in specialist services and have different priorities, ambitions and traditions. Here, each institution must make its choices, and with the requirement of a general rather than a qualified majority, there will be a more real choice. In conclusion, we also regard it as natural and wise in terms of the appointment of the Board, that the Department consults the institutions in advance in order to be able to record possible names.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e630	SV sees the advantages and disadvantages of both the governance models that are currently widespread in the UH sector in Norway, and for this very reason we do not see that it is well justified to change the main model in the direction proposed by the government. In practice, the size of the decision now being taken will signal a downgrading of the model of elected management, despite the fact that we are in a situation where the institutions are already free to choose the model they want, and where the experience with both models is good when they are adapted to the individual apprenticeship, the challenges of the apprenticeship and the local and professional peculiarities that characterise the different institutions. The Ministry’s consultation note states: ‘In the view of the Department, an appointed principal will have greater legitimacy from outside’. I think that's a statement that there's no evidence, either in what's presented to the Storting, or in the hearing note, in any kind of satisfactory way, and I think that's a rather strange argument. On the contrary, I believe that the system of elected management in which it is practised is involved in giving legitimacy, for example. to the major universities that have elected the principal, who has an open and democratic process associated with this election, which means that among employees and students there is a great commitment to and a great deal of ownership of the management being elected. On the contrary, I believe that in some contexts this particular way of choosing leadership can help to increase the legitimacy of these institutions, because it underlines the special social role that academia has, and the autonomy that our academic institutions should have. There is also a living and functioning internal democracy in several of these institutions. Now I am pleased that the change in direction of the headmaster as the main model will not deprive the institutions that want to continue with the elected principal, the possibility of it, and so on, this change does not have to be so dramatic, but I think there is still an example that the government parties are putting all possible measures under a heading that is about increasing quality, even if there are no flags of professional basis to say that these are quality promotions. It is simply a matter of the majority of the Stortinget, and then the government as well, prefers one model of governance to another – which is an honest matter – but without having good evidence to claim that one model offers better quality than the other. I think, on the contrary, we are well served with the freedom we have to choose different models at different schools. SV believes that there are good reasons why part of the institutions should continue with elected management, and therefore also that the Storting should not point to another model and say that it is a kind of preferred model. This is the starting point for SV to go against the amendments that have been promoted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e646	This is not a matter of the greatest political contradictions. It's okay with a quiet start after the Easter break. The representative Sandaune of the Progress Party believed that this was a major step in the right direction. So the rapporteur from the Labour Party says that this is a matter that is not very dramatic. It is very pleasant that the Progress Party is well pleased, and so am I, but I still agree most with the case rapporteur that this is not a very dramatic change after all. I personally believe that the Vice-Chancellor and elected Chairman is an appropriate management model, but at the same time I have great respect for the fact that some institutions make other assessments and want to keep what is today's normal model. That's why I'm very pleased that it's still going to be fully possible to choose both solutions. The representative of the Central Party points out that the county has a responsibility for the secondary schools and also, at least in part, for the vocational schools, and believes that they should also be responsible for the composition of the board at the colleges. A slight significant change there is that the county is also the owner of the secondary schools, while the state is the owner of the state colleges and universities. That is why I think it is reasonable that the department can appoint members of the board, I think it makes sense, and I think it is also neat that it is the department and not the board itself that determines the remuneration of the board members. But all in all, I think this is a little dramatic change that I think we can all – including the sector – live with very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e660	In this proposition, the government promotes a proposal for changes to the Law on Higher Education and, as it is also described, we believe it contributes to a better framework for governance in the sector. The rapporteur has explained well and thoroughly what the changes are, so I'm not going to repeat it, but just remind you, me too, that this is a follow-up to a discussion that we had in connection with the structural message, Report. St. 18 for 2014–2015, where several of these legislative changes were outlined. There is agreement – and I am very pleased – that it is absolutely crucial for universities and universities with good and strategic direction. It is crucial to achieve the objective of improving quality in higher education and research in Norway. We believe that university leaders should have both professional competence and managerial competence, and that this is necessary to further develop institutions in an increasingly global and competitive sector. The government believes that the head of staff and the external director appointed by the Ministry best prepares the basis for good recruitment processes where both good internal and good external candidates can compete for the top positions. A distinction between the Executive Director and the Chairperson will ensure that all authority and responsibilities, including: for day-to-day management supervision, do not accumulate in one hand. The board will thus have a stronger and more independent role when it is not managed by a principal elected by the employees, who will return to the professional environments after the head office has ended and who has a daily function at the institution. Professional priorities that are mutually considerate are always difficult. We are also at a time when priorities are needed for all institutions, in order to concentrate and profile their activities better. On this basis, the government’s clear preference is that higher education institutions consider a well-qualified principal to be the Executive Director and that the head of the institution’s board should be appointed by the Ministry. Of course, it has to be added, it is natural that you also listen to good advice and input. I mean anyway, and it's important to stress, that even though the appointment of the principal is the government's preferred model, we recognize that some institutions still want to choose the principal. There are many examples that elected principals have done a good job. There are examples that they have worked well with both the further development and the strengthening of their institution. So we want to give the board a more real freedom of choice in choosing a management model. The importance of this was also underlined by the Stortinget in the treatment of the structural notification. The Government therefore proposes that a decision on the management model be taken by a general majority of the Board of Directors, in contrast to today's requirement for a two-thirds majority. The Government proposes to maintain the current arrangements for institutions to make proposals for members of the board to be appointed by the Ministry, but that the institutions should not have to propose which of these may be the Chairman of the Board when the Department appoints them. The Ministry shall, as at present, appoint the Chairperson on a free basis and have the opportunity to assess several options according to the needs of the institution. Ideally, all those proposed should be suitable as directors, and it is unfortunate to give hope of executive positions, since the department in any case nominates on a free basis. The Government therefore considers that there should no longer be a legal obligation to make proposals, but that dialogue between the Ministry and the institution should of course be facilitated. In line with the government's objective of strengthening institutional autonomy, we also promote proposals for the Governing Board itself to be able to change its composition by a general majority. I stress that in all cases there should be satisfactory representation by all groups in the board, and that no group should be able to have a majority in the board alone. Major changes are taking place in the higher education sector. Structural changes are being implemented to provide a better framework for the institution's efforts to improve quality. Good governance and management are crucial. Students and employees are engaged in the selection and participation of governing bodies. The Ministry uses considerable resources to appoint members of the Governing Board, where the overall needs of the Board of Directors, the consideration of regional development and diversity are among the priorities. The proposed changes in the laws must, as a whole, provide better governance and management and are an important part of the overall quality work, although it is quite right, as it was said, that this is a moderate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e677	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e691	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e698	As rapporteur of the case, I will first spend some time on what the entire committee agrees on, and the background for the case, and come to the SV's own view afterwards. The starting point for the proposal is the great work that was done in NOU 2015: 2, belonging to – The instruments for a safe psychosocial school environment, which was handed over from the Djupedal Committee on 18 March 2015, i.e. just over a year ago. In this study, the sample points to five main challenges, which are also reflected in the proposals made in this proposal. It's about the legal certainty of the students, it's about school culture, it's about how to involve and cooperate with students and parents, it's about accountability and systematics, and it's about organisation and responsibilities in the support system. The committee made around 100 proposals which respond differently, and a pinch of them has been promoted in this proposal for a representative. In the vote, the Committee has referred to Norwegian and Swedish studies, highlighting the dramatic scale of bullying and highlighting the dramatic consequences of bullying for each student. These studies suggest that about 1.5 pst. For example, students in initial training experience extensive bullying over a long period of time, i.e. about 9 000 students in Norwegian primary schools. Figures from the student survey may suggest that the number is much higher. Anyway, we're talking about terrible human costs. We're talking about maybe the very most important question for us who want to create an inclusive school, a school that can create learning people. Without an environment where children can thrive, without basic security, it is also not possible to get to the school we want. It's our most dramatic challenge. It's about well-being and development. It is about the mental health of children and young people. But of course, it's also about learning and mastering. Whether this is a broad consensus in the committee, and all parties attend to the government's work on this and the overall follow-up promised during the spring. However, I would like to add, for the SV's part, that when we have decided to vote in favour of the proposals that the Labour Party has put forward in this proposal, it is because we believe that there is reason to express impatience. So we just have the anniversary – one year anniversary of the Djupedal Committee's investigation. The selection proposals are designed to enable them to be implemented quickly, precisely because this is so urgent for the children concerned. We also believe that the government should have acted more quickly, and that is the starting point for us to think it is right that the Stortinget send a signal about it. We will therefore also be voting in favour of all the proposals that are being put to the vote today. The most important recommendation of the Djupedal Committee, as I see it, is to focus on building broad competences at school. It may not be the proposal that is initially the most eye-catching or tabloid, but that's what will work the most, what's about building knowledge and competence in the college, in the collective, in each and every school. It takes a great deal of work to get it done, and it is important that government and population take on the leadership in their efforts to facilitate it. In addition, the selection is very concerned with better review procedures and that a new national review body will be empowered, for example: to issue fines in such a way as to ensure effective review. We support these proposals and hope that the government will follow up on what is coming. The research is unambiguous: that's what happens in the classroom, which is the most crucial thing. This is why this is linked to other important school policy debates — on teacher density, on the number of adults in other occupational groups involved in school, on the place of classroom management in teacher training and on continuing education, to mention something. With this I refer to the committee's setting and will also address the suggestions that SV is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e719	The representative Audun Lysbakken has taken up the proposals he referred to, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e722	I would like to begin by welcoming what tends to be one of Storting's most predictable debates, because when we discuss bullying in this room, we agree quite well. We say the same thing, refers to the same numbers, the same statistics and the same student surveys, and we say we're equally concerned about the consequences, because it's raised beyond any doubt that being bullied has great consequences for individuals, for people around individuals and for learning. Today is the first day of school after Easter holidays in many places. Many people have grudged themselves to this day because they are being bullied. According to student survey figures, as many as 60,000 students experience – 60,000! – various forms of bullying weekly or several times a month. There are large and serious figures — so serious that it overshadows the fact that there is a small decrease in the number of students who report being bullied in the last known student survey. Anyway, it's too many. It's about children who get constant comments on their looks, how they walk, how they talk, children who are pushed, beaten, kicked and spit on, children who experience systematic harassment, children who are kept out in the spare minutes, on the class tours, on the birthdays and on the Internet, children who feel that they are a nuisance and are a strain. Yes, worst of all, it’s about children who feel like they shouldn’t be here, children who think the school daily and the school way is a fight. It's serious enough in itself, and no less serious when we know what tracks this fight can put later in life. As politicians, we have a responsibility to prevent and stop bullying, so that students and parents can be absolutely sure that the students are well taken care of in school. The red-green government put down the Djupedal committee, and the sample would make recommendations on how we can limit bullying in school. We have not officially marked the one-year anniversary of the handover of the recommendations of the Djupedal Committee, but, as the rapporteur pointed out, it has passed, too far and in silence. The committee made 100 suggestions for improvements, it carried out a broad and thorough process, with recording meetings and hearings, and many of the 100 proposals were simply to be implemented. We waited in excitement for them to be followed up, but nothing happened. It was quiet from the state council, and we thought: he's saving himself safely for the state budget. But no then: the state budget came, and there was little to track, except for a few small measures and a web portal. The main lines of the Djupedal range were out of the question. At that time, our patience was over, and therefore we made 25 proposals, based on the recommendations of the Djupedal Committee and other known knowledge to limit bullying in school – proposals that, after all, do not get a majority here today: proposals for the development of skills for all school staff to be associated with preparedness teams against bullying proposals to recruit more social and environmental advisers to amend legislation and introduce the obligation of activity and the possibility of sanctions to transfer complaints from County Council to Children's Ombudsman proposals to improve school-home cooperation proposals to strengthen cooperation with voluntary organisations, inter alia. For several rounds and quite a long time, the Council of State has given signals about what he thinks he needs to do to stop bullying at school. Some of it has been unnecessary symbolism, and some of it has been quite wise. But it doesn't help that it's wise, as long as it's just talking. We do not need first and foremost striking problem descriptions and wise considerations. We need a government council that translates this into concrete measures to stop bullying at school. I record that the Council of State has said that there will be a package of measures, and I really hope that the time we have ahead of us will contribute to decisions and priorities that ensure our school children a safe and good start to their own lives. It doesn't help to say from, because they don't do anything about it anyway, said a young boy. It had disastrous consequences. We have to do what we can to prevent it from happening again – and it's urgent!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e763	As the previous speaker rightly pointed out, the bullies have been alarmingly stable. Although they go down somewhat in the student survey, we can in no way say that there is a sign that the problem is being solved, or a new and positive trend. That again means that too many students lie down every night with a lump in their stomach. They're afraid to go to school the next day. Too many look down in the floor as they walk through the canteen, instead of looking up with straight back. It's because they've let themselves be told that they're less valuable or don't have the same rights to be proud of themselves as other students, and at some point you start to think it's true. As the representative, Mr Bjørnø, rightly pointed out, this debate has been going on for many years, and it can be terribly predictable. There has also been no lack of action. Very often it has been about signing contracts in flashlights with soft cake and announcing that a contract must now be made against bullying – or another measure. There's nothing wrong with it, so far, but it hasn't reduced the bullying. That's why what's new, and that makes this debate and this handling of the bullying less predictable, is that we now have a knowledge minister who has decided to get into the problem carefully not only but also what actually works. The Djupedal Committee, set up by the previous government and carried on by it, has presented a large and comprehensive position, with many proposals meeting both support and counterclaims. It also requires thorough and proper treatment both from the department and from us as a staging before it is adopted. In addition to the setting of the Djupedal Committee, four listening conferences have been held, and other research available is carefully considered, precisely in order to avoid triggering measures for the purpose of the action, but to actually help students with lumps in their stomachs who are afraid to go to school. Then the whole follow-up that now comes from the Council of State is also to be dealt with in this room. That is why I think it is somewhat problematic if we are now to adopt many of these proposals, for which it may be easy to do so, but which may pre-empt the treatment of an overall follow-up to the Djupedal Committee, which has been reduced by the previous government and continued by it. And then there's already a lot of work done. Robbery attempts have already been made in four counties. It has to be carefully evaluated. Maybe this has an effect that makes it expand. There has been a sharp increase in support for health centres. It's important that it's not just the school that's the arena to fight bullying. The school may be an important venue to detect bullying, but students also have arenas outside the classroom and conversations with their own teacher to deal with problems are very important. We know that the boys in particular are struggling to talk about those problems. A project that has had great success is the Asker project, where you have simply set off a day of your own, every Wednesday, when only boys are allowed to visit the health centre. First came some guys, and they talked most about physical pangs, etc. They started to deal with mental problems too, and finally, the boys also came on the other days. In this way, you have managed to build down a threshold for a group in school that we know is struggling, and that is not good enough to talk about problems and to pick up, for example. bullying well enough. It can be a very important addition to the work done in school. Then, not least, there has been a significant increase in skills both at school and in kindergartens. The first line in the knowledge society is the teacher in the classroom or kindergarten assistant who's out there and makes sure that the kids are doing well when they're playing. Many trade unions say bullying can be detected long before it becomes bullying. They may point out that in a kindergarten you can early see which children are kept out, and which children keep other children out — not necessarily of bad will, but because it has become a chemistry that can develop to be bullying in school. So now we are going to have a large document for Stortinget, and we are going to discuss this matter thoroughly. I am very pleased that we are now doing this in a proper way instead of hastening us with measures that may not have the effect we want. When the representatives of the Workers' Party feel that this is going too slowly, it is worth reminding them that it was the government that is now running, that has accelerated the suspension of the Djupedal Committee, and that has spent the time after doing so thoroughly to get into exactly what measures are working. The foreseeable debate has to end, in which it is about throwing the most measures into the air for the sake of action. Now we have to do what helps the victims of bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e786	The government's work on measures against bullying is in full swing. The Labour Party has, fortunately, promoted a number of good measures in this Document 8. That there is much cross-political agreement that bullying is a serious problem is positive. What is not positive is that efforts to combat bullying have been on the agenda since the mid-1980s, i.e. for over 30 years, without giving any particular results. The student survey shows that as many as 60,000 students experience different forms of bullying weekly or several times a month. This shows that we can adopt action plans, anti- bullying programmes, bullying agents, etc., but it will not help unless responsibility is placed where it belongs, and lack of follow-up has no consequences. The party believes that the schoolleader and the schoolowner have to be held accountable — this is an important prerequisite for coping with the bullying problem. The Training Act states in Section 9(a)-1. General requirements: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ Furthermore, it is stated in § 9 a-3. The psychosocial environment: ‘The school shall work actively and systematically to promote a good psychosocial environment in which individual students can experience security and social inclusion.’ The Training Act is clear. Unfortunately, what has been lacking in the fight against bullying in many cases is the political will and power to enforce the law. For many years, the Progress Party has been working for stronger and clearer efforts against bullying, among other things. through own Document 8 proposals and other issues in Stortinget. What we experienced then was that the proposal of the Progress Party was voted down by the Workers' Party. Fortunately, today they are proposing similar proposals themselves. It's positive. The government has started well. Among other things, we have have been provided with a clarification in the Education Act and the Private School Act that a student such as a bully can be moved to another school. For the municipalities as school owners, a clear legal framework is very important. For the Progress Party, it is important to listen to professional environments and not least to students directly affected. In this case, we saw that a large majority of the hearing bodies were to make it clear that the bully is going to change school. Such preparation will have an important signal effect and will be preventive. Unfortunately, too often we see politicians as well as school owners and local school management not taking bullying seriously. We also see the consequences. Kids get childhood and school broken. Many are struggling their whole lives with the problems that bullying and harassment in school have given them. This must now be cleaned up. School management and teachers must be held accountable if they do not take vigorous action against bullying. We cannot accept that the principals are sneaking away from the responsibility. Lack of response to bullying must have consequences. Rectors and teachers who do not take responsibility should lose their jobs. The municipalities and schools that do not follow up should be penalised financially. I would also like to stress that the fight against bullying must take place every day. It's not something we're just talking about in connection with a report, so then switch focus and start talking about something completely different. Unfortunately, some teachers are at the forefront of the bullying of students. Teachers like bullies have nothing to do in school, and here teachers and teachers' organizations, principals and school owners must jointly tackle the problem in a more effective way than today. For a long time, the Progress Party has proposed and called for concrete measures and effective sanctions against schools that do not enforce the law effectively. The fact that more people are now addressing this issue is a positive one. We have had a good dialogue with the Council of State on this and are looking forward to the government's actions being presented. These include: notified an introduction of an activity obligation, which imposes and clarifies the school's obligation to act. Further notices are given, for example: improvement of the review bodies, access to periodic penalty payments and legal changes to make the legislation more effective against bullying, harassment and school infringements. We are also pleased that long-term action is being taken in this area, as a strengthening of the competence of new teacher training. The party looks forward to considering the thorough and comprehensive follow-up of the Djupedal Committee’s investigation by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e824	We have already been welcomed for a predictable debate, but I am nevertheless pleased that the fight against bullying is once again being raised as a theme here in the main hall. Bullying, harassment, infringements and social isolation are serious both for society and – not least – for the individual affected. Bullying is bad and uncomfortable for everyone who is exposed to it, and for some it means a broken childhood. I'm glad that the theme travels again, because I think awareness of the problem is necessary in order for us to succeed in combating it. We don't have to turn around, we don't have to ignore it, we have to admit that it's a problem, and we have to make sure that everyone who has a responsibility and anyone who can contribute to positive changes. And we are many who have a responsibility. I have a responsibility as a father, the teachers have a responsibility, the school leaders have a responsibility, the school owners have a responsibility, and we politicians also have a responsibility. But although it is important to put the topic on the agenda, it is not enough. We also need to look at the concrete measures that can be taken, both to prevent bullying and to ensure that the problem is properly addressed when it occurs, and that those who experience bullying get the help and follow-up they need. The Djupedal Committee has pointed to many important challenges and has presented a wide range of proposals for solutions and improvements. The draft representative that we are debating today is a sort of follow-up to the sample report, and I have interpreted this proposal as a sign of impatience from the representatives behind it – we have been confirmed today – an impatience after getting started and an impatience after action by the government. It is an impatience that I share, and I think it is time for the Storting to have a thorough debate on what solutions we should choose and what action we should give priority to. But when we know that the government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with a follow-up to the Djupedal report in the very near future, I am uncertain whether the most appropriate thing now is to base this representative proposal on the decisions of Storting, although it contains a number of good proposals. I think it would be wise to wait for the government's follow-up, and I have expectations that the Minister of Knowledge will present a case that provides the Stortinget with a good basis for a thorough debate. The Djupedal committee points to challenges that we have to do something about. The appeal procedure does not work well enough. We need to fix it, either by setting up an independent review body or by making the necessary changes to today's system. If the County is still to be the first instance of complaints, it must be made more known to students and parents. The threshold for contacting the County must be lower, and capacity and competences must be built up to ensure rapid and good procedural treatment regardless of the county under which they are to be sorted. No matter where the Board of Appeal is located in the future, I also believe that there is a need for better help for students who experience bullying and for their parents. Today, too many people feel a little alone in such a situation. They are in a vulnerable situation, and many feel that they are not being heard, that they are not being taken seriously, and that it is not being done enough to help them. We need schemes that guarantee children and parents better help even when a bully ends up as a complaint because someone has not taken responsibility. Finally, I would like to strike a blow for the prevention work as well. For many years, the Christian People's Party has wanted a bully in each state, a person who can help children and parents, who can also be a resource of competence for teachers, school leaders and school owners, and who can be a driving force in the creation of good and safe learning environments in schools. I wait with impatience for the government's follow-up to the report of the Djupedal Committee, and I hope and believe that the Stortinget will then have a good, thorough and constructive debate on how to combat and reduce bullying in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e839	Bullying in school is unfortunately still a recurring theme in the hall, but I fully agree with the Christian People's Party: we need to discuss it fairly often. As indicated in the setting, an entire committee is impatiently awaiting the follow-up of the Djupedal Committee's investigation. Both politicians, teachers and parents – but above all the students who are in a difficult situation – are impatiently waiting for action. I don't think a big message in itself will solve the problem, but it will be important, because the sample underlying it has gone deep into the problem of both prevention and action. Today we have 25 different suggestions on the table. I do not go into each one of these, but I expect that we will have the opportunity to get back to several of them when the Storing Message is presented. Seriously, some may remember that before Easter, the Institute of Public Health for the first time produced a report on the burden of Norway’s disease. It shows that among 360 diseases and injuries, marine casualties are the seventh most common cause of loss of life. Unfortunately, in these statistics, there are also more people who have had their lives ruined by bullying. Such a high rate of maritime murder is unacceptable — there are more than one person killed in traffic every year. The zero vision in traffic has contributed to a strong effort. We have to have the same zero for bullying. There aren't so many weeks since we last had students' mental health for discussion in this room. I then suggested that we need mental training in school, just as we need physical training. We need to equip the students for both adversity and adversity, not least in the performance society we live in today. Bullying is not due to social background. A bully can come from anywhere – a bully victim exactly the same. It's about what kind of marine image we're developing, marine tilitis, ability – or lack of such – to empathy and compassion for others, degree of maritime control, safety, need for maritime raising, group expectations, frustration, anger and possible reactions to our own growth situation. I think the three most important things that need to be addressed are the following: equip our kids to cope with access and adversity make sure that one of the school's most important tasks remains to see each individual young person react immediately when something occurs, or when someone reports from, regardless of how small or insignificant it may look. Not all work against bullying can be done. In any case, prevention is important – avoiding bullying and bullying. We also have to include in the parent group the reasons why someone becomes a bully and someone becomes a victim. This is very important in home-school cooperation. The way we talk about adults and treat others gives kids role models. Fast reaction is the most important thing for both parties. In addition, all municipalities must have an emergency team to assist the school. Many, with good reason, are concerned about the responses to bullying. What do we do with them? Move them, someone says. But this is very complicated, because the best bullies might not be the ones that are so easy to see at first sight. Bullying doesn't have to be particularly visible. Having someone to move isn't always as maritime. But when a discoverer is bullying, it is important that school and parents do their utmost to put an end to this, sail if it may be complicated. It is therefore important that we have a response chain from school via emergency teams to the County Council and all the way to the Children's Ombudsman, which we think should be bullying. In our opinion, the Children’s Ombudsman will be a good and credible unit to handle reactions to schools and municipalities that are unable to do their job. But then they have to be able to do it, resourcefully. As I have said before, I also believe that we should be critical of our seas as authorities in terms of the signals that we send out, and whether they contribute to a culture that promotes maritime law rather than care. The performance society is said to be one of the reasons why more and more people are struggling mentally in our society today. Today's young people are bombarded with impressions, and kids have a greater need than ever to be safe in themselves that they are good enough. When I hear about teenagers filling Botox in their lips to reap recognition in their friends' associations, there's something that's ripping wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e875	The size has been clear on zero tolerance against bullying in school by giving each student a statutory right to a learning environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. Despite this, the student survey shows that bullying is part of school life for many children and young people — and it is serious. Bullying goes beyond students learning at school, shows research. It is not easy to concentrate on schoolwork when a person is afraid of going to school, grunting at leisure or going home to school, or if a person stays home from school to avoid being bullied. Bullying also affects health, shows research. The National Institute for Public Health has pointed out that being bullied as a child or youth presents a significant increase in the risk of developing mental problems, such as anxiety and depression, with which you can cope throughout your life. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee identifies the need to step up efforts to combat bullying and urgently calls for action to prevent bullying. Many schools do a good job against bullying, and they have good well-being among students and little bullying. At the same time, several schools have persistently high bullying rates. Here, there is a need to work in a holistic, targeted and knowledge-based way. We have to do it as there is good documentation for how it works. Here, the systematic review of the Djupedal Committee provides us with a good basis for further work to combat bullying and create a safe schooling day for the students. I therefore meet with the government's informed overall follow-up to the recommendations of this sample in the near future. The fight against bullying is not least about good teachers, who focus on creating a good environment in the class to prevent bullying, who know how to handle bullying, and to whom students can rely if they experience bullying. It's also about having a good school health service, which gives students who are struggling, an adult to talk to when they need it, and before the problems develop too far. It is also about parents who are good role models for their kids, who talk to them about bullying, how they and their fellow students are doing at school, and who contribute to the inclusion of young people. It's about a number of other things, which we get plenty of opportunity to discuss when the government presents its follow-up to the Djupedal Committee. I point out that the Djupedal Committee was clear on the need for a better complaint system for the students than the system we have today. The Committee is also clear that today’s complaint mechanism through Fylkesmanen works too poorly. Here it is important to have a system that provides effective legal protection for students who have been bullied without experiencing that the school has handled this in a good way. I'm meeting what kind of arrangement the government is going to propose. The Djupedal Committee has assessed different complaints, benefits and disadvantages, including: different ombudsman arrangements. In this context, it becomes interesting what the evaluation of the pilot project with bullying agents will show. Here is an important issue that several of the bullying agents are purely county bullying agents, who are only responsible for the students in high school. I have understood that these representatives are still being contacted by primary school students and their parents, who formally fall outside the responsibility of these representatives. It may not be easy for them to understand that the bullying agent is not formally there for them when they need assistance. Since it's in primary school, there's a lot of bullying going on, there's a reason to take a closer look at this issue in the evaluation that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e905	It's not that long since bullying was not considered a major policy at all. The first issue of bullying, which is in the Storting Register, was asked once in the 1970s. It was by Lars Roar Langslet, who was given a memorial for here earlier today. Then it was, on the same line as, for example, domestic violence, abuse of women and child abuse, considered to be private, boyish or that kind of thing. Now it's promised to become a big policy, and that's important. In fact, it is absolutely essential that bullying is no longer a problem that you think can be handled out there somewhere, but is something that we are also responsible for. Then I fully agree with Mr Tyvand: it is a responsibility for us as politicians, it is a responsibility for the municipalities and local politicians, it is a responsibility for the school, for all adults who are there, and it is also a responsibility for the students. We know that any bully that doesn't follow is a betrayal – that's it. If you tell me about bullying, if you do what we've been telling children and young people every year that they're going to do, to say from, and nothing happens, it's betrayal. That's why it's very good that there's agreement on direction, all in all. There's a consensus that we have to do more, and we're going to do more. So I also think it's very good that it's impatience. The case rapporteur Lightbakken said that Stortinget wanted to send a signal. I also think that is very good. It should just be lacking that we were not impatient in these matters, simply because it affects so many people, and because we know that we must, and should, do more. So anyway, I mean we have to think, what has done that commitment and the impatience have not worked before? There has been no lack of politicians who have wanted to do something about bullying. There has also been no lack of action. It is quite right that among the many, many measures proposed by the Workers' Party in its document 8, or among the more than a hundred measures promoted by the Djupedal Committee, or among the many measures promoted in the consultation round, several of them could have been implemented earlier – six years ago, seven years ago, five years ago, two years ago, one year ago. Why was it nevertheless correct, I believe, by the then government and then state council Kristin Halvorsen to put down the Djupedal selection? Well, because what had been done wasn't just too small, but it was too scattered. There were too many short-term measures; there was no overall context. It was characterized by an effort that was divided and divided, not united and powerful. Therefore, I believe that although it is very good that there is impatience, it is even more important that bullying is not considered as enough a policy area where changing majority, changing governments are leading new and entirely different policies. I think it's an independent point that there's as much consensus as possible about the anti-tampering measures we come up with. Kristin Halvorsen chose to bring down the Djupedal range. It was put down on 9 August 2013 and was to deliver its cancellation on 1 June 2015. I quickly decided that it was too long, and asked them instead to deliver March 18, 2015. Then I made another decision that is also important, namely that we don't have time to wait for a whole new big message – because you could do that too. The representative Tingelstad Wøien said there's a big message coming. It doesn't. We are right about the legislative proposals, and then other proposals will come to the Stortinget in an appropriate way through, for example. budgetary documents. There are two things I think have been important. The first is that we involve the whole country, that is, that the proposals are being put to the hearing. We also chose to have four consultation conferences in the ministry – not only to study the proposals thoroughly, but also to bring the sector, its relatives and young people to the fore. We have also met with different actors afterwards, including. related organisations, and I believe there has been a proper use of time. The second thing I think has been important is that the kindergartens should also be included. The Djupedal committee was not commissioned to include the kindergartens, but I believe that the kindergartens should be included, and should be included, and I also believe that the majority in the committee will agree with that. This means that prevention and work can be started earlier, and that means that the measures we put forward will not only apply to school, but will also apply to kindergarten. So there is a great deal of consensus about many of the measures, including: the need for assessment of competence, for which Udir has already been mandated. There is disagreement about part of the other issues, but nevertheless I believe all in all that the Storting will agree on these measures after the government has presented its cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e928	Governments managed to make a five-minute intervention against bullying, mentioning only one measure, namely the building of skills. It's very symptomatic of a state council that has now become notorious for its lack of implementation. In 2013 he was appointed. There was nothing about bullying in the fall of 2013. In January 2014, Røe Isaksen said that he would await the work of the so-called Djupedal Committee before he took a position. In 2015 he repeated the same thing. On 18 March 2015, when the Djupedal Committee's investigation arrived, he said that there was no time to make a big message, because action was urgent. So now we're one year in overtime after the Djupedal Committee's investigation was submitted. Does the Council of State think that nearly three years' work in the Ministry of Knowledge without any significant action against bullying is a good result of his own work?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e937	It is not right, what the representative Giske says, that we have not taken action against bullying. The representative mentioned Tyvand, for example: a measure taken by the current new Oslo City Council, with the Labour Party at its head, namely a bullying agent. It's important. Launching a website and guidance for parents to make the information easily available is important. It is important to have measures to ensure that we have now asked the Education Directorate to create and start with the competence structure outlined by the Djupedal Committee. So the representative Geske has chosen to turn this into a sort of discussion about political games and uses characteristics. I don't intend to follow him in it, but just mention, since he first laid down on that line, that the Djupedal committee was set down on 9 August 2013 – not in 2006, not in 2007, not in -08, -09, -10, -11 or -12. The bullying problem was not unknown. If we had followed the original deadline, they would have delivered 1 June 2015, not 18 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e944	President, imagine this: the students who started high school in the autumn of 2013, when Røe Isaksen was appointed, are finished in high school before he has a single major action. I understand that he refers to the Labour Party Town Council in Oslo to cough up an action, but his responsibility has not been taken at all. It wasn't that Kristin Halvorsen was waiting for the Djupedal Committee. She strengthened the legal protection of those who were subjected to bullying, she strengthened the partnership agreement with the municipalities, she strengthened leadership, she strengthened the schooling – she acted, even when the Djupedal Committee was set up. Imagine the following, President: it was the building mass in school that led to 9,000 students being injured, some with fatal outcomes. Was it possible to wait three years before trading? That's what's real about bullying. The Council of State made a proposal to move the bully that was already indicted; he adorned himself with measures that do not work, to thousands of students who suffer. I think it's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e951	It was not the City Council in Oslo I pointed out, it was the Christian People's Party and the Left, and then I said that the proposal on bullying had also been taken up by the City Council in Oslo, and that's good. As I mentioned in the previous article, there are also other important measures to be taken, not to mention that among the most important are health care. We know, as the Labour Party also rightly points out in its Document 8, that if you do not have a good health care and school health service, it is more difficult to detect bullying. There it's been added almost 750 million. kr to the health care sister service. One hundred million. kr is now being earmarked – it is important. I must also say that I have full respect for the impatience of the representative Giske. I think that's very good. I share that impatience, and it is not that the ministry has spent undue time on this work. But I think it's a little special when you try to make political games of it, when the fact is that if we had followed the original schedule, the Djupedal committee's investigation would come on 1 June 2015, not 18 March. In other words, we still wouldn't have the one-year anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e958	I agree that the health sister is very important, but I think the most important thing is that every student is seen and heard, and that parents are also seen and heard. I wonder very much how we, as politicians and the Council of State, are going to make the schools understand that they need to see and meet those who are addressing them with what may look like trivial things. Now we've heard a lot about that we're going to wait, that there's going to be a big message, and I'm simply wondering, when will that big message come, and will it contain measures that we've been asking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e965	There won't be a crash message. That is the whole point, because if we were to make a big message now, it would mean that Stortinget first had to deal with the big message – and then you had to start with the concrete legal work. What we've done is exactly what Øystein Djupedal said, and I think he was exemplaryly clear, namely that we don't have time to make a new investigation when the sample has worked so thoroughly and carefully as they have done. Nevertheless, the legislative proposals and measures need to be examined and worked on. We need to have hearings – not just because we are going to have it formally, but because it is important that relatives, students, teachers and other adults in school drop out, and in a proper and thorough way they are told what they think about one of the most important societal problems we have. When it comes to being seen and listened to at school, I think it's important that we don't blackpaint the situation either, because most students feel that they're being seen and heard. But what are the schools going to have to do to grips with this? They must have a routine. I believe that it is as simple – they must have a routine as they follow and from which they do not deviate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e977	Representative Tingelstad Wøien to line number two. Or have you not asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e980	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e985	Then the next representative is Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e988	The work against bullying is linked to a number of broad school policy issues that we discuss in other matters as well. It's about teacher density and adult density, which was up the last time the Storting discussed this matter, and it's about what the research says is the most important thing to combat bullying, namely good classroom management. What's going on inside the classroom is absolutely crucial to what kind of school environment is out there. That means that the teacher's ability to create community and prevent intrusions within the classroom may be the most important thing if we're to point to one decisive measure. Then my question is: to what extent has the Council of State now intended to give greater room for classroom management in the provision of continuing education and training, and to what extent will he signal that this will be given greater place in the new five-year teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e996	I fully agree that classroom management – or the learning environment in a broad sense – may be the most important thing. There was a recent NIFU report that just showed that a selection of schools had managed to do something about very high bullying, and they had done it not only by going on the single bullying case, talking about bullying, but by building good class environments. Good teachers, teachers who understand the learning environment, understand the classroom environment, and talk about it and have it high on the school agenda. That's one of the reasons why we're continuing with the youth initiative that the previous government had, including. Class room management was an important part of it. Then we have the large increase in continuing education. So there are almost three times as many places in further education now as before, and it is also natural to look at whether our continuing education system can be better used, for example. to do something about the classroom and learning environment. There I also want to mention the principal training as very important to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1003	I'm glad the Council of State opens it up at the end. For what has been, I believe, a legitimate criticism of the device both against the continuing training effort of this government, and the signals that have now come in connection with the new teacher training, is that the government is unilaterally engaged in the expertise alone. Don't get me wrong: I'm concerned that we're going to create a lot of room for more expertise in the effort now being given, but this is one of the reasons why we're worried about the signals given about the place of pedagogics in the new teacher training, because it's just touching on these questions. What does it take in practice to be a good leader in classrooms, creating a learning environment and a safe psychosocial environment? If we extend teacher training to five years without giving greater room to build those leaders, we have failed grossly. That's why it's my challenge to the Council of States – to make sure that that's not what's going to happen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1012	The consultation round on teacher training is not over now, and we will conclude at last after the consultation round is over. But what we have proposed is not that there should be less pedagogy in the new teacher training. It's going to be more pedagogic, not least because with an additional year it'll also be natural to draw on the educational environments. You work, for example. with a practical master task. There are people who have produced the PEL subject almost like having compulsory KRLE education, but that's not what it's about. What we have proposed is to make a separate module about religion, life views and ethics visible, also because the PEL subject from the previous government, i.e. pedagogics and learning skills, was never meant to be a purely pedagogical subject that the educational communities owned – to attract more academic environments at the institutions. Much of the bullying problem, not least the learning environment as well, is linked – especially in multicultural classrooms – to issues related to religion, life views and ethics.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1019	The last representative is Anne Tingelstad Wøien, who then receives the second line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1022	Thank you for that. There was a bit of a rush going on. In fact, I think it is a little surprising that the government chooses not to send a big message. I understand the argument that we are in a hurry, and that we must have measures in place, and that a wanted change in the law. But I can't see that there's anything to prevent me from having a big message about the same, because a big message is the government's message to the Stortinge about how a person wants to follow up on this, and the line change that has just happened, has described many of the measures that a person wants to follow up on. So I am very surprised that the Council of State will not follow up on this with a big message. I wonder how the Council of State and the Government then want to present their action points for how this should be done in the future, for example. parent-home co-operation, classroom management, etc., without the provision of a staging message?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1031	I have said from the first moment that we are not going to present a separate big message about this. The reason why the head of the Djupedal Committee, Øystein Djupedal, also recommended it, is simply that it would take more time. How much longer it would take is difficult to say, but then the Storting had to deal with a big message first, and then you would go to the law afterwards. What we're going to do is send the laws to the hearing, and then the rest of the Djupedal committee's report will be followed up by e.g. budgetary documents. The disadvantage of this is that the Stortinget does not get a total production, but on the other hand it is possible to use e.g. the budgetary documents and the legislative proposal to give a more comprehensive picture of what the government wants to do in anti- bullying. So I think it's a good way to do it, and I think it also takes care of what is the intention of the Workers' Party in this Document 8, that is, that one should not be playing unnecessary time.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1040	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1045	We've decided that school should be a safe and good place to be because it's a prerequisite for learning. This is not the case for all students today, as we have heard earlier in the debate. We have a great responsibility that there are good enough teachers who can create safe environments, and the teachers are responsible for science and education, so that the students are well equipped to meet adult life. But we know that this is challenging in a school how many today need help with social and mental challenges, different diagnosis, disability, organized education and, not least, bullying. In order to create an inclusive school environment, interdisciplinary around the student is important. In that case, the health sister is an important and natural part, but the task may be difficult in high-problem schools. Students who labor, want an adult who is safe, have time, who listens, one they can talk to, with which they can trust, in short: one who sees them. That is why the Labour Party has invited the Stortinget to vote for a proposal that will help employ more social and environmental workers in high-bulleted schools, so that teachers can make the most of their time for learning. We know that it works. We don't have to wait. It's a shame it doesn't get a majority. I'm sure the vast majority of teachers want their students well, but unfortunately we get reports that there are those who bully their students: 1-2 pst. shows the student survey in 2015. A friend of mine is a therapist, and she tells me that she has students for treatment who are being harassed by teachers. That's bad. Then I have to say that I have made some thoughts when I myself have received e-mails from teachers who are concerned about political matters. Of course, it's okay that they argue for their vision. The fact that e-mails are sent with a word that is not appropriate to repeat from this pulpit is now one thing, but when you learn to act in the public room, for example. in newspaper posts, and talking about people in the same unfine way there, I think, what kind of teachers are these? Do they think about students reading these posts? What kind of examples are they for their students? After all, students need to get the impression that such a language is good. I think it must be important that teachers too are good role models, are aware that words are important and that words can lead to actions. It's bad when students get bullied, molested and harassed, and extra evil it must be when someone experiences it from a teacher. That is why it is a pity that our proposals – such as: the introduction of skills development in anti- bullying in schools, a regulatory framework that gives greater opportunity to replace school management that over time does not have the power to deal with bullying, and that a zero tolerance is legislated for staff who violate students – probably not getting a majority here today. After hearing the comments of the Progress Party, it is incredible that they will vote against our proposals. For them, it is clearly not the matter that is most important, but who is promoting the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1063	Bullying is a major social problem, and giving children a safe childhood and growing up is the most important prevention measure we have. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to give priority to an effective fight against bullying, and I am pleased that this is once again being put on the agenda. Bullying takes many lives, and the Public Health Institute recently presented a report showing that suicide is the most common cause of death for people between 15 and 49 years of age. Why is that so, you can ask yourself questions about. It's about the lives of individuals that are being destroyed, and we can't accept this. There is no simple and quick recipe to get rid of the bullying problem. Long-term and targeted work is required to clarify responsibilities and to make clear demands on the principal, teachers, municipal politicians and state politicians. Not least, teachers have to dry out to deal with the problems when you see them show up. It's also about making demands on the students. It is a matter of standing up as a clear leader and taking responsibility immediately when bullying takes place in the school and class environments. It's often a tough job to tackle these issues, and then it's important to have good management in schools and a good cooperation between school and home, so you get a common goal to fight bullying. Unfortunately, too often we see politicians as well as school owners and local school management not taking bullying seriously. A sad example of this is my municipality of Malvik, where there has now been an uproar of bullying in which the municipality was known through the legal system for the damage suffered by a girl in the context of bullying in school. However, the municipality does not take responsibility and seeks to achieve a dialogue and a solution that takes human interests into account in relation to the bullying victim. In the judgment, it was pointed out that the school had prioritised work on non-binding anti- bullying campaigns, but not the power to show action and to initiate measures that put an end to bullying. In the further work on bullying, it is therefore important not only to concentrate on the work on non-binding anti- bullying campaigns and empty words. It is action and concrete action that will be essential to ensure that a system of discharge and denial of responsibility is put in place. It's the bullies who must be heard, and they must not fight a powerless fight against the system and the bullies. In conclusion, I would like to commend the work done in the Djupedal Committee, and I look forward to the overall follow-up to this report, which the Department will promote during the spring of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1078	This is a matter and a theme that can in many cases be about life and death. That life poses challenges for both children and adults, everyone knows. But for those kids and young people who are being harassed and bullied, perhaps over several years, life can be more difficult than what sails the strongest can endure. That is why this proposal for a representative calls for a wide range of measures to combat bullying and help vulnerable people. Therefore, it is also important for us health policymakers to point out the health care measures that can help to provide proper help to children and young people who are being bullied. From the student surveys, we can see that maybe as many as 20,000 students are bullied every week. Early intervention and prevention are crucial for these students. This is why school health services and health centres are so important, so that children and young people who experience bullying have a place to go. Children and young people who get bullied regularly suffer from dissatisfaction, learning difficulties, functional problems, both at home and at school, and can actually experience becoming both physically and mentally ill long into adulthood. This proposal specifically points to two key actions directly affecting healthcare, namely the proposal for a right for health care care providers to refer to the students who need it, to the psychologist, the BUP, i.e. children’s and young people’s psychiatric outpatients, or other expertise, and that the school health service must be rigged with enough resources to follow-up the anti- bullying work. School health services, together with health centres, are a good and targeted lowthreshold service and a statutory health service for pupils. In addition to statutory tasks, school health services have a unique opportunity to meet children and young people in their own arena and can thus help to provide rapid help when something is difficult. The Stoltenberg II government proposed an increase of 180 million. kr to the school health service in the 2014 budget, but according to a survey conducted by the journal Sykepleien, only approx. 50 pst. used for the purpose for which they were intended. That is why the Labour Party has proposed that the money we allocate to the school health services and health centres – and we grant as much as the government – should be earmarked in its entirety, until we see that we have achieved the goals we have set for these important services. Unfortunately, the government hasn't followed up on this, so if it's true, as the Council of State said, you've agreed to an earmarking of 100 million. kr after pressure from the Christian People's Party. It is only if we work widely and systematically and get an interaction between school, home and the nearby health services that we can succeed in removing the unacceptable harassment and harassment that many children and young people are sadly exposed to. I think it is very bad that the proposals in this position do not get a majority in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1092	We are facing a social problem that involves several thousand crimes every day, which means that 9 000 children and young people are subjected to long-term systematic harassment and violence – many suffer mental health damage for their lives, some die from it. So we have an opportunity to make a decision. It's not just, as others have said here, good with impatience – it's very stupid with impatience, we shouldn't have reason for impatience. It should be so offensive that we said hi to the Council of State – we have a political agreement on this, we have to implement measures to help children and young people. It's very bad that we have to be impatient in such a case. Anders Tyvand said he was happy to have an opportunity to have a full review. We don't get a full review, we don't get a big message – not even that we get in a year. The reason is now, and the opportunity to adopt effective measures is now – 25 opportunities to take immediate decisions at the national parliament which binds the Council of State to action. The Council of State said he needed time for consultation. The deadline for consultation of the Djupedal Committee was 22 June 2015 – we will soon have a one-year anniversary for the consultation period. The Council of State said he had to send changes to the law at the hearing. The Ministry sent 33 proposals for consultation in 2015 and three in 2016, not one of them is about bullying. It is a bluff of the Council of State that this is about the consultation of legislative proposals. And if that is wrong, the representative Henrik Asheim can correct me in the next post by mentioning one proposal for a change of law that helps the bully victims in Norway, which has been sent to the hearing after the deadline for consultation of the Djupedal Committee expired on 22 June 2015. People suffer, and in the case of the image of a building mass, e.g. A house that stands in fire, or beams that fall into the head of the students: Had we then accepted that a councillor had been sitting for three years without doing anything? Had we then accepted that a state council had been sitting for three years without doing anything? Would we have accepted that students who were soon out of high school had begun to finish before a single major measure was implemented? I have to say that when the Council of State's faithful armsmen from the Christian People's Party, who have been a party that has been in the brink of the fight against bullying – Bondevik made heroic efforts – also cannot vote in favour of these proposals, it is completely incomprehensible. This is not due to political disagreement. Had it been disagreement, we could have lived with that there were two different views, and that we had not had a majority. But that's agreement. It is not due to political disagreement that this was not carried out; it is due to political intransigence. And the kids in school don't have time to wait. Then the Prime Minister gets one of the other school politicians to the Right – and you have more good choices: Henrik Asheim, Kristin Vinje, Kristin Klemet – who can sit in the Council of State chair and get what helps those affected by bullying, because this expectation is simply intolerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1101	The President would point out that the word 'bluff' falls outside the scope of parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1104	So the Council of State has announced that there will now be an overall follow-up to the Djupedal Committee's position. I must say that the representative Giske can tear most of us into his involvement in this matter, but where was that commitment when they themselves directed the country? Where was the impatience? We know that under the Bondevik II government, the bully fell by 70 pst. During the first period of the red-green government, from 2005 to 2009, it increased by 75 pst. Where was the representative Trond Giske when Kyrre Lekve, State Secretary at the Ministry of Knowledge, replied to TV2 when he was confronted with these figures in 2009: «Now we have noticed that it is time to press the case again.» It's very nice that we have an engaged debate. It is very nice that the opposition comes up with its proposals just before the Council of State comes up with a case. It's okay, we can take that with us when we're going to deal with that matter. But all of a sudden, after the results you have left behind in government, the Workers' Party has become so concerned about this – while we finally have a minister of knowledge who is not just talking about it while the bullies are shooting at it, but who actually file a whole case – that they say that impatience is a problem. Where was the impatience when the State Secretary from SV of the Red-Green majority government itself said, after being confronted with the increase in mob payments by 75 pst. in four years, that now we notice that we must have clicked on this matter? I fully agree with all those who have described how serious the bullying is, but it was probably as serious from 2005 to 2009 as it is now. I am irresistibly proud to represent a majority and a government that not only says that they should do something about bullying, as many councillors have said, or press it when they feel that the numbers are going up, but actually do a thorough and real job before presenting those measures. It's unfair for victims of bullying to have to watch TV again and again that politicians are now saying we're going to do something like that, and then you're going to feel that nothing is happening. Now we have a government that first looks at the research, then gets involved in the recommendations and then makes the suggestions. It's okay that we have an offensive opposition that also pushes to get things done, but there's going to be something hollow considering that during the Bondevik II government the bully went down by 70 pst, during the red-greens it went up by 75 pst. The impatience was not to be traced when it increased under their control.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1115	The representative, Gisk, points out that the Christian People's Party has been a driving force in anti- bullying for many years, and is promoting the efforts of former Prime Minister Bondevik. I fully agree that Prime Minister Bondevik did a great job, but it is not right that the Christian People's Party has stopped being an instigator in anti- bullying. We're going to be still, and we've been so far in this period. I find it sad that the chairman of the committee is trying to make this a political game and overlooks the measures taken to combat bullying. I can mention something. We have negotiated a test project with a bully in four counties. It's a project the Christian People's Party wants to expand to apply to all the states. We have helped to strengthen the school health service, which is important both for prevention and not least to help children and young people who are experiencing different problems. It is also an important part of the prevention of bullying. The government increased this budget by 200 million. kr in 2016. We said it was good, but not enough. So we negotiated 100 million. kr to, which was ear-marked. Our main school effort during this period has been increasing teacher density — several teachers of the smallest students. It will give teachers a better chance to follow up on each individual student. There will also be important anti- bullying work, with several adult eyes in school to see each student and follow them up — not only professionally but also socially — and ensure that they get a good and safe learning environment. In addition, we have made other proposals. We have made proposals on lifelong learning in school, as a project. It has signaled that he wants to assess in the context of the follow-up to the report of the Ludvigsen Committee. We have also made a proposal for a comprehensive action plan for the mental health of children and young people, on which the Health and Care Committee is to give its opinion during May. Then I'll mention RLE in teacher training. Having teachers who have competence not only in concrete anti- bullying but also have a good knowledge of the students and of different religions and different cultural backgrounds is important in getting a class environment that is increasingly multicultural and multireligious to work well. Then you have to have knowledge of the students' beliefs and backgrounds in order to create respect and understanding across these boundaries. Once again, I think it is sad that the chairman of the Committee is trying to make this a political game and ignore the measures that have already been implemented. I hope we have a more constructive debate when the Minister of Knowledge presents his case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1130	We can all rely on each other for lack of action, but I would like to ask myself that questions be asked about motivation and whether you are actually concerned about this, as the representative Asheim did in his post. Kristin Halvorsen and the other Swedish ministers of knowledge carried out a wide range of measures against bullying in the years they were ministers of knowledge. I don't doubt the commitment of the sitting council, and I think Asheim should stay too good to doubt the commitment of the councils that were set before. What is important, on the other hand, is that we recognize together that the very long series of measures put in under different governments has not given the results we want. These include both the measures taken under Bondevik and the measures taken under our government. Then it must be allowed to point out that under this government it has come very little. I hope that means that the Council of State now comes with a lot of thoughtful and good, based on the work that Kristin Halvorsen started, precisely because so many of the measures that have rolled out over time have not given the overall effect that is needed. Under the district council of Halvorsen, targeted work was started on what in tabloid language is called ‘hosting municipalities’, supervision was strengthened and guidance improved, but this is linked to the overall school policy. The question is what kind of learning environment we can create in the classroom in Norwegian schools. Single measures against bullying are important, but broader policies are equally important. It is in that framework that we need to understand the need for the Djupedal Committee. It did not come as a result of paralysis, but as a result of the failure of the various policies. I think we need to avoid having a discussion where different statements in the mob payments are interpreted in a way that makes one think there is a quick fix and that there are some simple political approaches that make a bullying remove as a problem in Norwegian school once and for all. There are the results of many actions over time — the results of tough fights against bullying in each school, but also politically — that will produce results. Instead of trying to doubt the motivation of the former government councils, I think the government parties should choose to end with this eternal eight-year gnaw that we hear over and over again, take the responsibility that results from having power and taking the consequence that little has happened over a long period of time. You are given the opportunity to convince us by presenting something that there is power in, during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1141	The representative Asheim presented some numbers that I think to most people who follow bullying closely, are absolutely completely unknown. He said that in 2009 there had been a sharp increase in bullying, which caused the cows to react. The 2009 student survey showed that there was a slight decrease in the amount of bullying, so where Asheim has its figures, it will be exciting to hear in the next article. But the important thing is not whether it's gone down or up a little bit, the important thing is that the numbers are too high and have been too high for too long. I don't think anyone can hit their chests and say they've done enough. But it's true, as Lysbakken said, that Kristin Halvorsen and the red-green government did some action. Among other things, they strengthened the legal protection of those who are subject to bullying, such as those who have been subjected to bullying. has led to some of the first convictions against bullying. The thing is that no one has ever sat for three years without doing anything material. That's what's the record here, which is totally unbearable. Some say this is a political game – Anders Tyvand is talking about a political game. I'm going to promise that for the 9 000 who are subjected to long-term harassment, there is not much game. What is game is to say that you are strongly committed to bullying and are waiting for a matter on which you should have a wide-ranging debate, but which is not coming. Then there are 25 opportunities to adopt concrete measures that help – and will not vote for it. So we can decide today that the government will launch a competence programme for teachers and school leaders. You don't have to wait for any hearing to do that. We can today decide that all municipalities should be linked to a response team that has competence in bullying. You don't have to change the law for that. Today, we can decide to strengthen the social advisory service in schools to help students who have problems in everyday life. You don't need a big investigation for that. We can adopt this today, but we don't get a majority because you're more loyal to the government than the government itself is. Tyvand's boast of the government is more impressive than Erna Solberg's boast and the Minister of Finance's boast together. What is alarming is that the Council of State says that the reason for waiting is that things need to be consulted. However, not one case was sent to the hearing after 22 June 2015, after the consultation deadline expired. If this is wrong, I ask the Council of State to go up and tell us what changes in the law he has sent to the hearing after the hearing on the Djupedal committee was finished, and we can now expect to come to Stortinget. What are the concrete things that are missing from the Ministry's consultation list? There's nothing there. So there's no hearing we're waiting for. The major investigation and review was the setting of the Djupedal Committee. There are proposals in sequence and sequence and waiting to be implemented. It did not come into the budget in the autumn of 2015, it did not come into revision in spring 2016, there were no legislative proposals, and there were no consultation proposals. We need action, and I doubt that this council will come so far before he is replaced in 2017 – hopefully before.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1150	The representative, Henrik Asheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1153	Now I have no more chances. The representative Geske asked where I had got the numbers 75 pst. under the bourgeois government and 70 pst. under the red-green. It is from Erling Rolland, who is a professor of special education at the National Centre for the Environment and Behavioral Research in Stavanger. He's been following Norwegian bullies since 1995. I can also send and share both the TV 2 case and the link and the video interview with Kyrre Lekve to the entire committee, if it is desirable to see what he actually answered those questions. So to the representative Lighthouse: Let me be quite clear that I do not doubt that any knowledge ministers have been concerned about this matter. I'm just saying that what was the government's own answer when they were confronted with increasing bullying was that now we have to press it again. I have no doubt that both Kristin Halvorsen and former knowledge ministers have been busy reducing the bullying, but the bullying went wrong. When the answer was that we must now try to have it back on, it at least shows that the impatience that has been called for by other parts of the opposition has become very clear in the opposition, but was not so obvious when you were responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1160	As soon as the Right gets a little pressure on its own policy and action, you go – the tradition believes, I would say – up on this pulpit and start with the same lesson about what the red-greens did or didn't do. The conclusion is the same no matter what thing they talk about: the red-greens did nothing – just as the representative Asheim has now done. Then, of course, in this case, I could spend time repeating what both the representative Giske and the representative Lysbakken have said, but I will not. If the representative Asheim and Right wants to do something that can now work, which can be put out alive now to do something about this serious problem for so many, it is – as the representative Giske said – to vote in favour of these proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1165	I explained some of the measures that were taken against bullying under the red-green government, and also the continuation of the manifesto against bullying that the Bondevik government initiated. Then I had really also expected a little more humility from the representative Asheim in his answer to that. If you go in and look at the things that I now did, and as he himself mentioned in his post, you can see that some of the developments in the bullying picture are described, among others. the digital bullying that struck in those years, hardly because of the political change in the Storting from the Bondevik government to the Stoltenberg government, but because of changes in the world out there, which is our task to meet politically. I would probably also allow myself to doubt whether it was really such that the bullying went down by 75 pst. in three years, and then up by 75 pst. the next three years. I really think Asheim has doubts about that too, even though it was opportunistic to use it right now. I suggest that we continue this debate when the Council of State comes back with its affairs, in a more dignified and more substantive way than this. I think that's not least what the kids this is about, it's earned. Then I hope we can get back to what are the core questions: how do we build collective competence in schools? How do we make a complaint handling that works? How do we strengthen the teacher's ability to lead the classroom? How do we focus on classroom management in continuing education and in the education system? Then, fortunately, we have an attitude from a sample that has given us advice just based on the things we have tried, together, but that has not worked well enough, and then it is now up to the government to follow it up. It must be allowed to point out that it has taken a long time, and then we hope that we will wait for something good when we have now waited a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1172	We all agree that bullying is a complex phenomenon, and it's not easy to get rid of it. That's exactly why it's not just to race out and act right away, and that's why it's good that Kristin Halvorsen put down a sample that went thoroughly to work, and that gave us a good knowledge of what we can do to get rid of bullying. Bullying is complex, and therefore there is no easy way to get rid of the phenomenon. That's why it's also sad, I think, that the committee chairman is appealing to such a heated debate and accusing the government of not doing anything, when it's obvious that the government is taking more action. Anyone who reads the Council of State's response to this proposal for a representative sees that several measures have been taken. The government is working on the matter. There's been money coming to health stations, to health sisters, there's been strategies, and there's a change in the law along the way. We also know that there has been a review by school inspectors of the bullying measures implemented in the period 2005–2015. So there were different measures for more than 209 million. kr, and none of these measures can be said to have had any effect. It tells me that it is not just about running off the farm and putting in different measures to be able to stand here and show that you are so-called able to act in a field like this. This is too complex to be able to hurry off farms with rapid action. That's not necessarily what works. That is why I think it is good that we now have a thorough background work, and that we have a knowledge minister who thinks about it before he takes action.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1180	Thank you very much for the debate. Anders Tyvand from the Christian People's Party has in a very good way explained – and I have also said something about – what measures this majority of people have already taken, among others. bet on health sisters. Then the process is so that the Djupedal Committee's suspension should be consulted. In this context, there were also consultation conferences. It was important. Then we work in the department as quickly as we can – and I can assure you that this is not an unnecessary time – precisely because this is important, and concrete legislative proposals will be consulted in a short time. As far as the debate is concerned, I think the representative Sønsterud had a good point that all adults have to take responsibility. Then all the representatives here will evaluate themselves and their own efforts and find out whether this is the way we want this debate to be conducted. As I said, I am the Council of State, I am responsible for this policy. I am pleased and happy that it is good that it is a debate – that it is a heated debate, that it is a heated debate. But we have to assess the form of the debate, especially in a matter as important as this. It is not a question of parliamentary or non-parliamentary language, but simply of the fact that I believe it is an important point that all parties in general are behind a new anti- bullying policy. That should also reflect the debates on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1187	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1190	I understand that the Council of State feels it is uncomfortable to be set up in Stortinget so that nothing happens, and that the debate would be a bit more pleasant and more pleasant, and that we should enjoy the consensus that is in the Chamber over here that everyone is engaged in the work against bullying. But the debate here is not about whether we agree with the objective of combating bullying. This debate is about action and action, about doing things that help those who are exposed to it. And the Council of State spent the entire five-minute period talking about the process, where he, among other things, was talking about the process. said it took time, because it was necessary to send things to the hearing. We have then pointed out in the debate that the hearing on the Djupedal Committee was finished in June 2015, and since then nothing has been sent to the hearing. So the Council of State now had the opportunity — for the second time — to tell what had been sent to the hearing, possibly to clarify what action was to be taken. Nothing of this happened. We must be able to see that if it was not bluff that things had been sent to the hearing, it was at least untrue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1195	I had initially not intended to take the floor in this matter, but I must be allowed to say that the committee leader Giske's way of speaking, the climate he is trying to add to such an important matter as this, makes me feel the need to say something from this pulpit. Firstly, I think this is a matter that is far too serious to drive too much polemics around, as I feel the representative Giske is doing in this matter. Secondly, it is in fact quite alarming to see that a former Council of State and now the Chairman of the Committee is not aware of the process that one should have around the position of the Djupedal Committee regarding the presentation of the proposals, the treatment around Norway through these conferences and the work to be followed up by the government. Those who have been familiar with those processes can see that that programme has been accelerated by the Minister of Knowledge, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, so that you have actually got a faster presentation of this work than it was originally planned. In addition, it is possible to point out from this pulpit that no action has been taken. We actually have a rift of over 1 billion. This has led to hundreds of health workers who are able to follow up some school students. We have received a number of actions – mentioned by Mr Tyvand here, whom I am not going to repeat – that show that there has been a long-term, strategic and knowledge-based effort to combat bullying, while at the same time implementing some measures from which experience and knowledge can be gained and which will contribute to this situation. Then I think that you should stay too good to lie down on that level in such a serious matter as this. I hope that we can take on board the fact that, in the future, we need to be broadly united, in a case that is difficult to deal with, that requires long-term care, and that requires us all to contribute, so that all school leaders in Norway take their responsibilities and contribute to a good school environment that makes it easier to experience bullying in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1220	Children in flight are vulnerable. Many have traumas and baggage with them that require follow-up for the rest of their lives. In particular, this is important in the acute phase. Everyone needs secure frameworks, stability and care to move on and become part of the society in which we want them to live. From 2014 to 2015, there were 2,176 lone refugees. In 2015, there were 5,297 children. The last UDI statistics show that 61 of these have disappeared. In the last four years, 248 young people have been reported to be missing. Every year, between two and five children under the age of 15 disappear from the care of the child, and the rest, that is, they over the age of 15, disappear from the reception of the UDI. There are no statistics to show whether or not the kids get away even after they reach the municipalities, which should clearly be followed up. These are children who are to be settled, children who are here for a limited stay, but there are children we have to make sure they get better. Had 248 Norwegian children disappeared under the responsibility of the state without anyone knowing where they were, or that we had not had measures to look for them, there had been large headlines. It had created a raspberry, and it had led to a demand to do something. The children we're talking about get almost no attention, and we owe them that. We owe them good frames around the stay, so they don't run away. Procedures must be created to find those who are gone, and to get them back to the level of care they are going to have. A youth aged 15–16-17 is a child to me, although our legislation and UDI define them as adults and not under the responsibility of child protection. In Norway, young people under the age of 18 do not manage on the streets. In Norway, youth over 15 years of age are also responsible for child protection because they are still children. They are not considered adults to take care of themselves – alone. Who is going to take that responsibility is another discussion than the one I bring up here, but it should also be mentioned in this case. It's important to remember that they have a ballast that our kids don't have. So they're extra vulnerable. Many people have a lot of anger and uncertainty in themselves, they've been on the run, and they've had experience of life that we'd rather not think of them. Therefore, they need more protection, more help and more care. The question is, do they get it? UDI is responsible for children between 15 and 18 years of age and must provide for follow-up. However, since reception departments are voluntary housing, employees cannot refuse to leave their children. Then the frames must be safe enough to be chosen. Are we making good enough frames, and are we providing good enough security? Is it stable enough? Do they get enough follow-up? What happens when they get away? Is it the police's responsibility as soon as they run away? This matter was also discussed in the vote on the draft representative document document 8:13 S for 2015-2016 just before Easter, which suggested some measures, such as strengthening staff throughout the asylum chain and gaining child-care skills. Before Christmas in 2015, a unanimous big deal agreed to ask ‘The government shall ensure that children who disappear from the reception of asylum are sought and that specific measures are put in place to prevent them from being exposed to trafficking in human beings and exploited in prostitution.’;» Now the decision is taken once again, March 15, in Decision 529. We don't know where children disappear. There may be several reasons why they choose to run away, such as fear, connection problems, dissatisfaction, rest and search for other family members, or conflicts where they live. They've got life waiting, and the hope of a better life may not have been fulfilled. The fear of being sent out is a reason for their voluntary disappearance, but these children are vulnerable and can easily become victims of people with different motives. Someone just chooses to move on to find a better life. These kids have no rights or opportunities to obtain money fairly. They must resort to illegalities to obtain income for their own consumption, and they are easy to abuse for the right people. They have a life without rights, are paperless and without ID papers. They can't get a job, they can't get a cell phone, they can't get an address and they don't have that income. They can't go to the doctor. They can't report things to the police. We know that they live largely from hand to mouth. They are also very easy to exploit on the black labour market because they cannot say from. The danger of their being exposed to radicalization is also present, and we know that environments are looking to recruit. My concern is those kids that no one finds or who no one is looking for. There are many organizations calling out warnings, such as the Red Cross, the Children's Ombudsman, the Save Children, and many others. What's done to find the kids? Is it planned, is there concrete action, is the police concerned about finding them, and what do they do? What to do with the kids that may be present – do they get extra follow-up and security around them? Do they get help getting out of debt that they might have incurred? Do they get help dealing with the mental problems that they might have? A question to the Council of State is whether it has been assessed to have other types of reception for children aged 15 to 18 years in order to ensure better provision and to prevent them from leaving. What measures does the Council of State consider to be the most effective to make children — and to be found? What measures does the Council of State think are the most effective to catch these kids — the 250 kids who are gone, no one knows where is?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1257	I will first use the opportunity to congratulate the representative Mangt with the day. I hope you get a nice celebration! I agree with the representative Mandt that it is important to prevent and clarify the disappearances of lone minors from reception. Although the arrival of lone minor asylum seekers increased sharply last year, figures from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs show that the disappearance of this group has not increased accordingly. While there were 61 lone minors who disappeared in 2014, and who are still in an unknown place of residence, that figure was the same for last year 107. However, there were more than four times as many lone minor asylum seekers last year compared to the previous year. When we look at the proportion of single minors who have disappeared and who are still staying at an unknown place of residence, it was last year's 2nd place. of the lone minors seeking protection in the same year. UDI statistics show that the proportion has been steadily decreasing since 2012, when it was 8 pst. It's a positive development. It is important to keep the disappearance at a low level, both for the sake of children's own situation and because we need to know where those who come to our country are. In any case, it is important to have good practice and follow-up of matters dealing with these matters. According to the Police Directorate, disappearances are rarely caused by criminal offences. The police experience is that several people who leave reception without notifying the authorities settle with relatives living in Norway. It is also true that they have often given signals that they want to move on. It is important to note that cases of minor asylum seekers are treated as other cases of missing and missing persons. It is not that everyone who disappears from reception for single minors, ends up in a criminal environment or is exposed to trafficking in human beings. In many cases, there is reason to believe that they leave the receptions on their own initiative, and there is also often uncertainty about the age of those who disappear. The alienation authorities take it equally fully seriously when minors disappear from reception without giving a new address. The responsibility of lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age living in reception lies with the UDI, to which the representative Mandt referred. Daily care for minors has been delegated to the receptions, and the UDI, in cooperation with both police and child protection, has developed detailed follow-up procedures in disappearance cases. The reception shall notify the police, child protection, County State and UDI as soon as the disappearance is detected and no later than 24 hours. The UDI revised last year’s circular and the updated version provides a more precise description of the responsibilities of the receptions and the procedures to be followed when minors disappear from reception. The UDI believes that it is now easier for an employee to find out quickly what to do when a resident has disappeared. These guidelines contribute to a better alerting and follow-up of the disappearance. Upon receipt of the formal missing message from the reception, the police shall, in accordance with the procedures, inform the minors in the registers ELYS II and SIS II. The police portal contains checklists and comprehensive information on information procedures and other relevant actions. Whether the police should do more depends on the specific case and whether there is a suspicion of criminal offences. The police collect information and assess each case in the same way as Norwegian children disappear. Matters in which children disappear from reception shall be prioritised in line with other disappearance cases. Police need to obtain as accurate and complete information as possible on relevant circumstances as soon as possible. This applies not least to the background and personal circumstances of the missing person. Disappearances from reception are particularly challenging, especially because people often know little about those who disappear. Many leave the reception shortly after arrival, and in such cases the police will have little information to build an investigation on. In case of suspicion of criminal offences in case of disappearance, the police shall investigate the case. If you open an investigation, you have to decide which resources you want to use. The scope of an investigation will vary from case to case. There are times to assume that children have left the country voluntarily and on their own, based on what the child himself has said to employees or other residents at reception. This does not provide a good basis for initiating local investigation activities. However, there is reason to believe that some minors travel from reception or care centres on orders from persons controlling them. The children are then at risk of becoming victims of trafficking in human beings or ports in another situation that represents a danger to their development. This is something the police take seriously. It is important to remember that children who disappear from reception and are exploited for trafficking in human beings could later be identified by police, child protection and others. It is therefore extremely important that the police are always aware that minor asylum seekers who are in a congested environment or commit criminal offences may be in an exploitation situation. Police competence in trafficking in human beings is increasing. In 2015, earmarked funds were allocated to specialised groups in five police districts. Close police reform will provide a more sustainable professional environment that will enable all districts to increase their efforts against trafficking in human beings. On a daily basis, it is the asylum recipients who are responsible for the care of lone minor asylum seekers. Prevention of disappearances is part of this. The UDI imposes a number of requirements on the operators of recipients of asylum which can help prevent disappearances of lone minors. This applies, inter alia, to: personnel requirements and broad competence among staff at reception. Other requirements affecting the conditions of unaccompanied minors in reception include: requirements for the growing-up environment, the involvement of residents and the provision of activities. The UDI also imposes individual monitoring requirements on the reception of single minors, and the aim is for the individual to receive systematic follow-up and the required care provision. In a prevention perspective, it is particularly important to identify the needs of those with specific challenges. Early identification of persons at risk of disappearance can also be a preventive tool. One measure implemented is the entry of minors at risk of disappearance into the UDI's rapid track for the treatment of asylum cases. UDI has recently developed a reporting system to ensure an up-to-date and comprehensive overview of the number of single minors disappearing from reception. This will allow UDI to better assess the need for improvement measures both internally in the UDI and in cooperation with the police and child protection. The work related to the disappearance of single minor asylum seekers at reception must be carried out across the sectors. Both foreign authorities, police and child protection have a responsibility. The Ministry of Justice and Defence sees the need for more knowledge and has therefore commissioned a research mission on single minor asylum seekers who disappear from reception and care centres. The final report of the project shall contain recommendations that can serve as input for the development of legislation and practices and will be delivered in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1293	Thank you for your good-bye. There's no better way to celebrate his birthday than on the Stockholm pulpit. Governments point to several measures, and the fact that many disappear voluntarily is a well-known matter. But my concern is all the children who don't disappear voluntarily. The police have revealed that known sexual offenders circle around young and vulnerable people in refugee shelters. Kripos suspects an assault. This gives cause for concern, and action must be taken to get the children out of it. It is documented in the Fafo report Not our children, from 2015, that children are subjected to abuse and that children seeking asylum alone are extremely vulnerable. They can be extremely easy to lure because they are so desperately lonely and need contact with adults. It is my claim that no one had accepted this for Norwegian youths who do not have parents and have the authority to take care of themselves, so it is our task to accommodate them in such a way that they are taken care of. The report points to challenges in cooperation between police and child protection, and to lack of knowledge and practices. Many of the cases are cross-border between different agencies, which means that children can be thrown away between different services. Employees in both child protection and the police point to the need for expertise and guidance on how to deal with matters. In the proposal before Easter, one of the proposals was to set up a team against trafficking in human beings. I am also very pleased that we have an intensive and up-to-date plan on trafficking in human beings. Much of this environment is well hidden. Sex markets in which children become commodities give great cause for concern. The purchase and sale of children is a well-known case throughout Europe, and there is no reason to be naive and think that it is not happening here too in Norway. These are strong environments, with which the police can do their best, and they are the ones who have the best overview of it. I am pleased and satisfied with the good clarifications of the police's responsibility in such matters and that they follow up. I look forward to the debate. My main question is, what can we do to prevent children from running away, what can we do for those who stay away, and how can we get them back? That's what's essentially in this interpellation: lifting it to be their spokesperson in an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1308	I believe it is important that we give a good offer to the lone minors who come, when they are at our reception, and that that offer has many different aspects – if you can say so – in terms of health, and that you see the individual children’s needs in a good way. That's how you can always get better, and we're going to work to get better. It is probably a fact that we – most likely – will never be able to get into the situation that nobody disappears. It's because we don't have closed receptions, and because neither is it that they have to stay at these receptions. What we have to do, anyway, is do everything we can to ensure that children do not enter a criminal environment, that they are not subjected to criminal acts. It is quite clear – as the representative Mandt says – that you should not be naive about criminal networks preferences in order to exploit children for various criminal acts as well. That's why we have to keep working on this, and we also come up with an action plan on trafficking in human beings during the year. When it comes to crossing circles around reception, there is a problem that the police are familiar with, and that the police are watching around the country. It's clearly important that that attention is present, and that we follow up on what's happening to it. So in this case, as in many other cases, there are several bodies that are going to cooperate – it's the receptions, it's child protection, it's the police, and there we have to work all the time to get the best cooperation possible, so that we can follow up the individual child in the best possible way. Here it is a potential for improvement, and I look forward very much to getting the report that is being prepared, where it will also come to mind whether there are regulatory changes or other things that can be done to further strengthen this work, which I think everyone can agree on is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1321	First of all, I intend to congratulate the interpellant on the some-and-twenty – congratulations so much! It's not long before I become some-and-twenty-more. I am extremely pleased that the representative Sonja Mandt is raising the debate on such an important matter, but, unfortunately, it is also such a serious matter. Many children disappear from our receptions, and I believe that one missing child is too much. And then a low level is not good enough, as the Council of State said from the pulpit here. In the newspaper on 16 January it was stated that since 2013, 781 children have disappeared from reception. It is our most vulnerable children who disappear, who have experienced so much harm even before they came to Norway. I'm not reassured by the answer the Council of State gives here, because when the children disappear from the receptions, they go outside of society. It's a serious problem for them, but it's also a serious problem for us as a society. This is a child who should have had close follow-up from day one, from coming to the country. These are children who are in great danger of becoming victims of crime, trafficking in human beings and prostitution. There's nothing the interpellant or other people think of themselves, these are things that have been said by those who work closely with children, by those who can do this very well, and also by the police. We know very little about what happens to the children who disappear. Where do they go? That's a question that we have to find the answer to. A question to the Council of State will then be: What kind of knowledge does one have, and how does the Council of State acquire the knowledge you need to know what happens to these kids, and how does it know what action to take to avoid this happening again? The size treated last year – on which the interpellant was in – Prop. 152 S for 2015–2016 with additional appropriations related to the increased arrivals of asylum. At that time, the majority in this Chamber allocated more money to lone minor asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age, but unfortunately the majority would not support the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's proposal that the 48 million. kr should be earmarked for increased staffing and increased childcare skills in the receptions. We then believed — and we still believe — that there is a need to strengthen the demand for adult and child-care skills in the case of single minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. We thought that the additional allocation was 48 million. kr to the UDI would go for this purpose. We also asked the government to make proposals on how this could be done in concrete terms. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for this either. This is as serious today as it was at the time, and it is important to us that we get measures in place that will give these kids a better and closer follow-up. Not least, it will be important for us to prevent children from disappearing from reception. I would also like to remind you that before Christmas a unanimous decision was taken by an SV proposal that children who disappear from reception should be sought. It's important that this too be followed up. Nor am I reassured by the response of the Council of State here, because even in the integration agreement, which some of us agreed before Christmas, it was pointed out that issues about children disappearing are to be given equal priority to other disappearances, and that prevention measures are to be taken to prevent children from getting into criminal environments or becoming victims of trafficking in human beings. I want to ask the Council again what has been done to follow this up. We'll be in April – time's up. Organisations such as Red Cross, Save Children and the Children's Ombudsman and the police are concerned about the situation. The ones we're talking about here are children, just like our children. We're adults -- they don't have their adults here. We have the opportunity to do something, we actually run the country. Then I believe we have to take responsibility for those who have no opportunity to let others take care of themselves, or are unable to take care of themselves. At least that's how we can help prevent these kids from getting into the hands of adults who don't want them well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1342	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. It is serious that minor asylum seekers disappear from reception and that we do not know where they are. Children who come to a foreign country alone are vulnerable and can easily be exploited by cynical adults. According to the UDI and the numbers I found, 2,207 asylum seekers disappeared from Norwegian reception last year without saying where they went. Of them, there were 301 children, and 73 were lone minor asylum seekers. It is particularly worrying that so many lonely minors disappear without knowing what happens to them. Many have been on a dangerous journey before coming here to the country. Some have been exposed to trafficking, violence and abuse on their way to Europe, and some are indebted to their helpers to pay back. How this refund is going on, we don't know much about it, but it could be about shady operations and new abuses. The disappearance of minor asylum seekers from reception is not a new phenomenon. I actually asked questions about the same theme in the Knut Storberget Question Time when he was Minister of Justice in 2010. Whaling village transit reception in Asker experienced in 2009 that 21 children disappeared from the reception without knowing where they were going. Both Redd Barna, the municipality, the Children's Protection Service and the police were committed to taking action to prevent children from disappearing at risk of being exposed to congestion. I know that fortunately this reception does not experience this as a problem today. As the Council of State said, statistics have actually gone down on this problem. The children are closely followed up by health professionals and environmental therapists, and at the reception there they have now hired a person with a special focus on and responsibility to reveal trafficking in human beings. There are good procedures in place in the event of any suspicion of a danger of trafficking in human beings. Children in danger are then moved to other receptions further away from Oslo and are followed closely up. In Nordic cooperation, there is now a special focus on the common challenges facing the Nordic countries in the context of the great flow of refugees that we have seen recently. In the Welfare Committee of the Nordic Council, we are particularly concerned about the lone minor refugees, and this will be the theme of the meetings we will have in 2016. We see it as a primary task to ensure that children living in the Nordic region have a good and safe life situation. It is important to exchange experiences across Nordic countries and learn from each other. On 18 and 19 April, the Velferds Committee of the Nordic Council will be held here at Stortinget. We will then visit Wvalstad transit reception for minor refugees in Asker and hear how they work and what experience they have done, and what they do. In June, the Velferdscommittee met in Stockholm. The theme will also be lone minor refugees and the experience Sweden has gained from as many as 35,000 underage lone refugees in 2015, compared with 7,089 in 2014. So Sweden has had and has a huge challenge in dealing with this. The Nordic Council's cooperation is valuable, we have a fairly similar culture and a similar way of life in the Nordic region. That is why we can learn from each other's experience and easily translate what works, in our own countries and parliaments. Not only Norway has experienced the disappearance of children from reception. This is also a major problem in Sweden, and it is a major consensus across Nordic countries that we need to have a greater focus on this topic and do more to prevent children from disappearing at risk of being subjected to abuse and crime. I refer you to the Council of State's response. He spoke of good practice being put in place, and perhaps there has also been a reason why statistics have fallen fortunately in terms of disappearances. I am also pleased that a research assignment has been commissioned for minors who disappear from reception, which will then provide a greater knowledge base for the actions we need to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1363	Lone minor asylum seekers are a vulnerable group. It's especially from this group that we're recording that children disappear from the receptions without knowing where they're going. Of course, children who are completely free of family are extra vulnerable. I am therefore pleased that the representative Mangt addresses these important questions about what we can do to reduce the number of disappearances. On 19 November, the majority of the parties to the Stortinget concluded an agreement on asylum policy and on 16 December an agreement on integration policy. The situation of children in refugees has been given great attention in both agreements. The agreements have been dealt with by the Stortinget and by a broad majority sent to the government for follow-up. I understand that we can expect the asylum message in April and the integration message in May. It is urgent for both of them, so it is important that the government does not spend more than the maximum amount of time needed to promote proposals for the follow-up to the asylum and integration agreements already in place. In the asylum agreement, among other things, that the government attaches particular importance to improving the conditions for single minor asylum seekers in the reception of asylum. Unfortunately, there is every reason to ask questions about whether all single minor asylum seekers receive the follow-up that children of their age should have. Those under 15 years of age, who come under child protection and their care centers, I think they have good deals. It is more varied for lone minors between 15 and 18 years of age. We know that the situation for them in the receptions is difficult, and that there may be poor follow-up and lack of pediatric competence in the receptions for this group. Low adult density increases the risk of disappearance. In the asylum agreement, we point to several current schemes, such as different housing schemes, foster home schemes, public high school facilities and SOS Children's cities. Just before Easter, the Stortinget examined a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on measures to improve the care situation of lone minor asylum seekers. Two of the proposals that were promoted were supported by the majority of the population and are therefore to be followed up by the government. The size decided to ask the government to consider setting up independent supervision in the receptions of lone minor asylum seekers. The majority also decided to ask the government to set up teams against trafficking in human beings that could detect victims and prevent children from being exposed to trafficking in human beings or recruited to criminal environments from receptions. So both proposals are closely linked to the issues and the questions that the interpellant addresses today. So I was excited about the Council’s response. The Ministry has had time to review the proposals in the asylum and integration agreement concluded before Christmas and also to assess the follow-up to the decisions. Unfortunately, it seems that I have to lubricate myself with patience until the messages arrive. No new measures were notified in addition to the research report ordered. It's a good thing it's coming, but it's not enough. On 15 March – at the examination of the proposals put forward by the Christian People's Party representatives Tuskedal, Bollestad and Ropstad – the decision has not yet been taken. It might be interesting if the Council of State had said a little about how to follow up these proposals – the proposal on the anti-trafficking team and the proposal on independent supervision in reception. We have no time to lose in putting in place better follow-up measures for children in asylum recipients, and especially for lone minors. We also know that it has become more difficult for municipalities to settle single minors after a large cut in the reimbursement scheme for child protection measures for them. In the budgetary procedure, the Council of State responsible indicated that there is a need to look at whether today’s arrangements are good enough. On the part of the Centre Party, we expect concrete follow-up to this in the integration message and in the revised national budget. As I said, this is urgent – we have no time to lose!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1384	Before we move on to the debate, the President will inform us that the called alternate of the Hedmark County, Hege Jensen, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1387	‘All children in Norway are ‘our children’,’ said the previous Minister for Integration, Horne, determined after Fafo presented the report showing that children who come here as asylum seekers disappear and that we are actually treating them worse than if they were our children. We're not looking for them. It is reported and reported further, but they are very little checked out. Therefore, SV made proposals and received a unanimous increase before Christmas that special measures must be taken to prevent children from being exposed to human trafficking, as Fafo has demonstrated, and exploited in prostitution, and that they must be actively sought when they disappear. It's a difficult topic – I have to admit it. No one says it's easy. But it's very serious when we know this, when we know how desperately lonely these children are, when we know that Kripos reports that known overgrowth circles around the receptions, and when we know how wonderfully good at integrating criminal environments are, especially to young people who are rootless and have no adults to take care of, or any belonging anywhere in the world. Then it is very serious that the government just after this Fafo report came forward, made suggestions that there may actually be fewer adults to look after the children who have come here alone. That was part of the state budget. If we compare with Norwegian children who do not have parents and supervisors, the requirements for pediatric competence are much higher for them – the adult density is much higher. But it's clear that even these kids need some adults they can wait for, that they can talk to about everything they're afraid of, that can take care of them simply, hang them back in when there's a car – because that's what you do, you're driving up and trying to take these kids and trick them out on both the one and the other. It is very serious that there are too few adults with pediatric competence. So we're going to have to only have one of these receptions. It's a shame not to report much. I am very pleased with the contributions that come from the Workers' Party today, because it may indicate that they also now agree more with SV that we need to ensure that the staff here is in contrast to what we have in Norwegian Child Protection. These young people have other challenges, but they have at least the same challenges, and they may need an adult network even more than Norwegian youths, precisely because they come to a society they don't know so well from before, and they have very traumatic and unsafe experiences behind them. I have asked the Minister – in several questions – how to follow up these decisions now, and how to dispose of the money the government has actually made. In the reply I received from the Council of State at the end of February, she writes that they have asked the UDI in the tertiary reports to report on measures related to the reception conditions of lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age and their status, «including measures to improve group care and safety and to reduce the risk of adverse events where deemed necessary». It's actually necessary everywhere! It's not like this is just a big-city phenomenon. It's not like it helps to move the kids to a reception out in the countryside, to say it like that. Criminal environments are mobile — they reinvent these young people — and it is possible to travel both to and from. So it was granted 48.5 million. In addition to this in the budget, it is important that this money is now made available and that action is actually taken in this area. And then there's a question that we really have to address to the Minister of Justice, and that's whether the police are actually looking for these young people now? Do they have the resources to do that? Do they do it in practice? I'm sorry to doubt it until the opposite is proven. This is a very important topic. We have committed ourselves through the Children's Convention to take care of these children as well as our own children. We're not doing that today. That's what we have to do, because otherwise, several of them end up in the claws of traffickers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1411	Thanks to the interpellant, who addresses a very important topic – and congratulates you on the day. It is serious that minors disappear, and the issues are challenging, among other things. Because we don't know enough about the kids who disappeared. Minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 come to Norway without parents or others with parental responsibility. Many of these disappeared. Many travel to other European countries, some travel back to nearby areas or, in fact, to their home country. It is clear that a lot of good things are going underground and living as paperless, either here in the country or in other countries. Nor can we ignore the fact that someone is being traded on human beings, elected and assaulted on their way to Norway, but also after they have come here to the country. This is serious, and one should get good arrangements to prevent this. Asylum children who disappeared, but are in Norway, do not have ID papers and cannot get a job, challenge, mobile phone or address. One can't go to a doctor, one can report things to the police. Many of these live from hand to mouth and thus become easier victims of the black labour market and other markets that we do not want. Talking about minor asylum seekers who have disappeared is uncertain. Good reporting procedures are important for this. Care centres should work for the best of the child, and they work continuously to prevent escape and disappearance. In case of suspicion of escape or disappearance, care centres shall ensure close follow-up of the child in the day-to-day medical course, including: by informing schools and being in contact with the child’s network, if available. It's clear that when you see children who are in the care center, they might have a little more security than those who are in the usual reception, and there's probably a good part that needs to be done a little bit differently. All care centres have procedures for disappearance and escape. If the care centre does not find the child by contacting friends, networks and schools, the child shall be reported missing to the police. In addition, child-rescue guards, representatives, guards, UDIs and lawyers shall be notified. The disappearance shall be recorded in the BiRK, which is the technical and reporting system of Bufetat. In cases where single minor asylum seekers disappear from reception, the UDI has procedures for follow-up such as: means that child protection representatives and others involved shall be notified. The police must specifically assess the individual case when they are informed, with a view to what measures may be relevant for the police to take action. But it is better to put into practice something too much than too little in such cases. In case of suspicion of trafficking in human beings, care centres closely cooperate with the police for the exchange of information on suspicious activities around the care centre and the child concerned. In addition to care centres, special care centres have been trained to assess the safety of their children, for example. with regard to trafficking in human beings. But this is also about the fact that there is enough added, and that they have enough knowledge of this so that they can communicate further. The police have a primary responsibility, but municipal child protection also has a central role to play in these matters. The BLD has developed a circular on the responsibilities of the Child Protection Service for single minor asylum seekers and other minors in reception, care centres and municipalities. The circular suggests that the Child Protection Act applies to all children in Norway, regardless of asylum seeker status and citizenship. The number of disappearances is very uncertain. Preliminary numbers from ongoing research show that some children are counted more than once. We have to think that this is not a similar group. Some are not traditional asylum seekers, but young people in operation who are placed on reception when they are hit, for example. in the drug setting. Some disappear from the country after rejection of the asylum application, while others seek relatives. Unfortunately, we have indications that some are also victims of crime. That's where we have to put the forces to prevent this from happening. I know that Kripos is concerned about the situation of single minors, and that they fear that the children can be abused by criminals. This is a big worry that I share. At the same time, all the disappearances are reported to the police, who are also responsible for following up these cases. In 2014, the UDI established a new rapid track in the handling of cases involving selected groups of single minors. The aim is to prevent disappearances before the age survey and before the case is adequately informed, to avoid over-years being placed in reception for single minors, and to identify people with follow-up needs due to vulnerability. Thematics has been the subject of several working groups and reports in the last decade. Hausten 2015 presented the report ‘Not our children — Identification and follow-up of minor victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway’ on behalf of the BLD. Here disappearances are described to a certain degree. At the same time, I very much look forward to the report that has now been ordered, which will be published during this year. This report will be important for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1435	It's an important issue that the interpellant travels, and it's primarily about children and childhood, and how we as adults can make it possible for children to grow up in a safe environment. We know from history that women and children are the hardest victims of war and conflict. This knowledge should be based on the choice of measures to prevent children from disappearing from reception. The story of childhood tells us that if children are to get better, adults have to get better. That children flee from conflicts without their parents tells us the story of children in extreme distress. The rights of children are enshrined in the Children’s Convention and also oblige Norway. I would particularly like to mention Article 3, which deals with the best of the child, and Article 12, which deals with the right of children to be heard. When children stay away from reception without knowing where they have gone from, this is not for the child's best. It's even more serious when you don't know where the kids are going, but you're worried about whether they're going to get involved in human trafficking or criminal acts. The serious thing is that a child’s perspective is not based on a child’s perspective, but on an adult perspective that concludes that some children just stay away. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child emphasises the right of children to be heard. The question is whether children in reception are adequately heard and whether their views are taken into consideration, or whether some children stay away because they feel that no one is listening to what they have to say. Children who stay away from reception, voluntary or involuntary are entitled even if the Children’s Convention applies to all children, regardless of nationality. The serious question is, how do they survive, and what lives do they live? We have not only as a nation, but also as human beings a commitment to these children. We should know more about the lives they live and whether they are subject to criminal offences and not least to their rights enshrined in the Children's Convention. It is therefore important, as the interpellant points out, that we should ensure that children do not disappear from Norwegian reception, and that we at the same time try to find those who stay away.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1458	Thank you for a dedicated debate that shows that many people care about both the children who are in the receptions and those who stay away. Yeah, it's important to have a low level, so there's a few kids that stay away. One child who stays away is one child too much, as the representative Eirin Sund said correctly. When someone disappears voluntarily and settles with a family, shouldn't we also know that they're there, shouldn't we also check that? It's a little too easy that we just say that they're probably going to be gone and live with family. Then we must also know that they are safe there. UDI has improved its regulation, and that's very good. They follow up with warnings, and I hope that they will both continue and tighten up further. The police are calling for and trying to find, says the Council of State. What else? Do they have enough resources? Do they have good enough routines? Can non-governmental organisations working on the street help? Can they be a cooperation partner for the police? Are they today? I'm not quite sure everything that can be done is being done. What kind of follow-up should we have at the reception to avoid them getting away? That's good for those who are under 15, but for those who are over 15, the risk is higher. What kind of measures can we take? Can we have increased child-care skills, more adult employees? Can we have our own reception with a better overview? Should Nordic countries learn from each other? As is said here, the Velferdscommittee will now continue to work on this. Should we look at what they do in the Nordic Council? Should we look at what Sweden is doing, and what kind of measures they're taking, to find out if they're better at finding the kids than we are? We're not good enough. That's still enough to do. Cooperation across the sectors and the various disciplines is the least we can expect to do to achieve that. That's what I'm counting on the Council of State to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1477	There are several people who have been involved in this discussion that we know very little about what is happening to these children. That's one of our starting points: we need to know more before we know what to do. At least I don't have now, on the standing foot, the solution to how this can be done, when we strictly don't know enough about the starting point. Therefore, the research project is very important. It's what the representative Karin Andersen was in for, almost 50 million. This will help to increase the staffing and child-care skills of these asylum recipients, and will help to increase the number of staff at receptions during this year. It is also true, as the representative Karin Andersen said, that we have said in the letter of allocation that we want a tertiary reporting of actions undertaken in relation to these receptions. It's precisely because we think it's very important to follow closely what's happening to this age group. I think it is important to stress that issues where children disappear from reception should be treated in the same way as other disappearance cases. That's the starting point from which the police work. Then you have to admit that it can be much harder to deal with these things, simply because you know much less about these children, in many cases, than you do about children living at home with your family, and where you have extensive information about them. We also know that with regard to the identity of the child, there may be relationships around what is unclear. This is why it is a challenge for many who come to Norway, including the lone minors, to come without identity, and thus have a challenge related to it as well. I was out with the Oslo police earlier this year to get a little more insight into how to work towards a criminal environment. The Oslo police have a good overview of both the prostitution environment and what is involved in drug crime and various urban issues. And what at least those I was on the patrol with, said, was that if any of these children were to show up in these open environments, they would be able to see it quite quickly. It doesn't have to mean that there aren't children in the criminal environments, but that's what we need to know more about, and that's why this research project that I've been into before is important. Thank you for a good debate on an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1494	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1510	The last time I had interpellation in the United Kingdom about organized crime and criminal gangs was in May 2006. Then we had slept an hour too long, and quite heavy thread structures had been established in the capital area. A separate team project was launched with over 30 dedicated policemen in the Oslo police district. They did a huge job and were close to the crowds around the clock for three to four years, which led to large seizures of weapons and values and many fewer shooting and violence episodes, and quite a few of the main characters in the gangs were subsequently sentenced to long sentences. But it's just as important today that we don't have to sleep an hour. A number of key people who have served their punishments are on duty again and, unfortunately, are active in criminal environments. Even more people will be released in the next two years. The open borders in Europe and the great migration have also led to the emergence of new criminal gangs and organised mobs with large networks in several countries. These build up within growing, cross-border crime fields that have not been fully ‘accompanied’ by other gangs, for example. trafficking in human beings, ICT crime, illicit gambling and mobile gambling, but they can also compete with the established gangs, for example. drug markets, with associated risks of spirals of violence and incidents. Or they can cooperate with the established gangs and provide them with new criminal capacity, in the import and sale of illicit weapons, torpedoing and protection money, money laundering and insider dealing, increased access to drugs, new ransacks, for example: against goldsmiths and the revitalisation of the organised rans environment. Also more ‘everyday’ crime such as ID thefts and extensive diesel bottling, mentioned in today’s media image, can be put in the system of organised criminal groups. There is also a growing tendency for organised criminals to try to establish themselves in legal sectors such as refurbishment, restaurants, tattooing, training centres, car wash and cleaning, where they can literally money laundering through legal activities. It is becoming increasingly difficult to take the principals behind organized crime because they build several teams between themselves and those who commit the crimes. The police know they're active, and they follow them, but it's very demanding to build up and set things up. It's been a while since the central gangs themselves ran around with guns and committed acts of violence, but they can be an ever greater and more professional threat to society. When worried parents tell me that much more is being done than in the past, on-going longing of drugs all the way down to high school in some places in Oslo, there is nothing that individuals have found to begin with. There are cynical replicators who are trying to open up new markets and generate larger revenues. We also see an increased number of violent episodes in vulnerable areas, which on the surface look like serious enough fights between young people, especially when knives and other weapons are used, but what is behind, for example. Greenland’s knife fights before Easter between groups with Somali background may be a struggle for who is going to sell drugs where, and for distribution of income. We also see that there are environments in the capital where what were previously some youths who had committed crime has taken the step of being organized criminal gangs close to those known as the B-boy, Young Guns, criminal MC gangs, Furuset Bad Boys, etc. Different ethnic groups of people with backgrounds from Lithuania, Western Balkans and Somalia are also in the same category. So the police have more environments to work with than before, and the picture is more unwieldy because of crossing alliances and groups moving across Europe. Nevertheless, the competent police officers working with organised crime in Oslo and elsewhere are largely successful in their strategy of preventing and averting serious incidents. In the capital they managed in 2015 to avert 19 very serious criminal operations, including six planned killings in part during execution using very frightening methods that can match the TV series. 60 crew members were arrested last year, 38 firearms and 3.5 kg explosives were seized. Two major frauds in the hundreds of millions of people were averted. On the other hand, when the police don't manage to prevent and avert events, it can have serious consequences and threaten security in public places, as we saw during the shooting at Mona Lisa restaurant in Oslo last May. In Report. St. 37 for 2014-2015 on global security challenges equated the government with terrorism and organised crime as threats to our social structure. And it's important to take into account that this is happening in Norway here and now, not least in the capital. We also know that most of those who are recruited to terrorist networks have criminal scrolls – according to a recent Europol report of 80 p.m. There are thus many reasons to conclude that today there is an even greater need for the police to be close to the heavy, organised criminal environments than it was in 2006, when we had to call an alarm and set up our own rendezvous project. So I turn the corresponding alarm again. In the light of the experience of the reconstruction project and the increasing influx of international criminal gangs, the previous government issued a big message on the fight against organised crime, which was dealt with at Stortinget in April to May 2011. In the Communication, it was an important point to develop measurement criteria for police work against organised crime and budget allocation criteria that would stimulate police districts to work more on this. The Judicial Committee also stated in its unanimous position that there was a need to revise the measurement parameters so that the focus is turned towards combating organised crime actors. The Committee would bring forward several §§60a and 162c cases, which were the org.krim. paragraphs of the old penal code. The cancellation message was followed up in many ways, including: by defining clearer objectives in the letter of assignment from the Police Directorate to the police, which is the main instrument of governance. Thus, the 2013 letter of award was part-objective 1.3 ‘Action against organised crime’, and it was defined as reducing the amount of crime originating in and carried out by organised groups of perpetrators compared to the figures from the last three years. The coordinating body should be strengthened and should initiate and support more investigations across police districts in order to clarify more of organised crime. This was a strong signal of stepping up the fight against this type of crime to the whole of Police Norway. But already in the 2014 allocation letter, crime was organised in a more modest place. And from 2015 and 2016 it has unfortunately been removed. Sub-Objective 1.3 of 2013, ‘Action against organised crime’, has been replaced by 1.3 ‘Reducing serious crime’ – rightly with the sub-categories of serious integrity violations and gross profit-based crime. The problem with the removal of org.krim.-the concept is that this can weaken the police's focus on the organized nature of crime, and that it's about power, honor, revenge and the very security of our society. This is not just about words, as some people might say, but about a basic understanding and a comprehensive approach. There is an overall and close link between the objectives of the letters of entrustment to the police, the own org. Krim. paragraphs of the Criminal Code, the internationally high priority fight against organised crime where Europol and the EU play a central role with their own definition of this crime, and the construction of their own org. Krim. sections we have seen in many of the major former police districts. I have no doubt that there is a cross-political consensus on the Storting to take the threat of organized crime seriously. I Prop. 68 L on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, which came before Easter, follows the government in a positive way up several of the things the previous Judicial Committee asked for in the setting of the Org. Krim. Communication, among others. in the case of data reading, communication control and coercive measures in matters of defrosting and prevention. What I want to stress in the end is that the fight against organised crime is becoming increasingly demanding and crucial for social development, and that we must not believe that the danger is over even if the police are able to prevent and avert many serious incidents. We have a powerful police force, working against organized crime 24 hours a day every day of the year, and they deserve this to be followed up in target management and assignment letters, in the content of the police reform when the new police districts are gradually to be developed, in improvements to the law and method development, as we now see, among other things. i Prop. 68 L, and in the allocation of resources in the years ahead. I look forward to hearing input from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1547	Let me first thank the interpellant for an engaging and good post. Organised crime represents a serious threat to individuals and businesses and, in its most serious form, the welfare state and key social institutions. As I see the interpellant's speeches from the interpellant today, I essentially share the opinion that the interpellant has, except in one area, that the claim that organized crime is given less attention in letters of assignment and in the follow-up from the political team now than has been the case in the past. There, in fact, the opposite is the case, even though the term ‘organized crime’ is defined somewhat differently in the letters of assignment from this government than it has done before. But the purpose there has been to hit what we perceive as organized crime. I'll come back to it. There is no doubt that the increased internationalisation of crime is reflected in the statistics we also see, for example. in criminal custody. As of 11 March 2016 is 33.8 pst. of all prisoners in Norwegian prisons and 58 pst. by residents of the custody of non-residents. A review carried out by a judicial judge reveals that nearly 100 persons in Norway are convicted of organised crime, as defined by the Criminal Code. These are people from around 20 different nationalities and a wide range of offences. The numbering material has been correctly found after a manual review and has been confronted with some uncertainty, but it still shows that the threshold for being convicted of organised crime still seems to be too high. For this reason, it is also important in terms of objectives and priorities to define this in such a way that it actually affects the type of crime that you want to target. International trends and threat assessments, not least trend reports, show that serious organised crime is growing. In my opinion, a well-organised and powerful police force with the right tools will be a fundamental prerequisite for success in the fight against organised crime. The detection of such serious crime requires considerable resources. Since the government joined in the fall of 2013, the police budget has increased by over 3 billion. kr, including price and salary growth. Over the last three years, since the government change, the overall capacity of the police has also been increased by annual extensions to the annual work framework. If you include the budget for 2016, there are 1,054 more police posts, there are 50 – actually over 80 – new police lawyers since the government change. And for 2015, only in 2015, the police, with the exception of the PST, increased by 544 year's work, divided into 368 police officers and women, 50 lawyers and 126 civil positions. There has also been a strengthening of the higher prosecution authority with 16 new state lawyers since the government change. The implementation of the near-police reform will also represent an important response to tomorrow’s crime challenges. A strong police force with local anchoring will also represent strengthening and prevention and will be an important response to local challenges. It will also ensure that we get stronger and more robust professional environments in the fight against organised crime, and there will be more impact on organised, profit-based crime. I would also like to stress that the crime scene we see also challenges quality. Near-police reform is also the answer to the quality of research, and we are now working on a separate action plan containing a number of measures to ensure that the quality of research is increased, including in the fight against organised crime. The same applies to effective criminal justice and analysis, which is an incredibly important tool for police to be at the forefront of crime development. And the trends that we see there fit well with what the interpellant said in his post. The introduction of the new intelligence doctrine in 2014 is an important measure for the police to be more in front of new crime trends. Serious profit-based and organised crime is found in many forms. The increased flow of migration has made it clear that organised human trafficking is also taking place in Norway, including trafficking in human beings. A new cross-ministerial action plan against trafficking in human beings is now under way. The close police reform will also ensure competence in all police districts in this important area. In this way, the government also meets that challenge. In the government, we are very concerned about preventing, investigating, clearing and rectifying crimes against children, such as violence and sexual assault. We see that the Internet and new technology are more relevant to these kinds of things. This is also very often part of organised, profit-based international crime, where the most vulnerable are exploited by the most cruel. The fight against violence and child abuse has the highest priority for the government. Labour crime is another important part of organised crime. To a greater extent than before, we now see that it organizes itself under the cover of legitimate activities, cooperates across different industries and hides organized crime in a mafia-like way, which makes it very complex and challenging to investigate, but also has international dimensions. As one of the measures in the strategy against crime at work, a dedicated centre is now established with a joint inter-governmental analysis and intelligence centre against economic crime. As the interpellant had in mind, the Police Directorate implemented in 2011 action plans for three heavy crime areas. It was criminal MC gangs, repeat crime and drug crime. The development of organised crime is so rapid, as the interpellant also pointed out, that a new job is now to do this more generally – not just targeted at individual groups, but with an overall strategy to combat organised crime, and that it is anchored in different action plans in the various areas. One of the major arenas for international organised crime is the cyber area. Often it is defined as one form of crime, while all other types of crime occur in the analogue, real world. It's not like that anymore, the digital world is very real, and there's often parallelism and hand-in-hand problems with organized serious profit-motivated crime between what's happening online and what's happening in the analogue reality. Therefore, it is also important in this work to ensure that a job is much more cross-cutting, and not in a way that divides it into two types of crime. It is also important that the police have access to effective means of combating serious crime motivated by profit. On 11 March, we put forward our own method proposal, which extends the possibilities for the police to use hidden methods to meet the new crime challenge we are now facing, and it is important for us that the lack of proper methods should not stand in the way of resolving this type of crime. Then criminal acts won't pay off. That's why we work hard to recover profits from profit-based crime. The coordination body for the fight against serious, organised, regional and cross-border crime is responsible for strengthening efforts against this type of crime. For the last three years, the coordinating body has distributed nearly 80 million. kr for such targeted efforts. In 2015, activities focused on occupational crime, reprimand crime, Lithuanian criminal networks and cybercrime, in particular the purchase and sale of drugs and dope via the Internet. So the interpellant as the starting point for the interpellant has asked questions about whether a should not have a stepping up of efforts against organized crime. I believe that what I have now said shows that it is a really hard fight against profit-motivated crime, including that in organized form, and I believe that in many ways we are fulfilling what is the starting point of interpellant interpellant for the interpellant. Then, of course, it will always be like this in an area where crime trends are moving fast, that it is also natural to be concerned that it should be possible to think new and creatively to be even better rusted forward. Then the interpellant has asked questions about why not use organized crime as the starting point in the letter of assignment. In short, when we talk about organised crime traditionally, it is related to the provisions of criminal law and the delimitation of organised crime, based on what is needed to increase the penalties and ensure a certain use of methods. When we talk about serious profit-driven crime, organized crime is part of it, because all organized crime is driven by profit. That means it's a little broader, a little bit wider, than the roughly 100 people who were convicted of organized crime in 2015. So the goal is not to have less focus, but the opposite – to have more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1583	I thank the Council of State for an offensive and informative statement. It was important for me to have organized crime on the agenda. My concern is that when I use the search button on the letter of assignment, which is 30-40 pages, or something like that – I don't remember the page numbers exactly – I find the term ‘organized crime’ just one place in the general introduction. I understand that the Council of State believes it is important to bring with it the other thing that is not condemned as organised crime, in the great effort that must be made against serious crime, but one must be careful not to weaken that term's position, because it is also in the opinion of the Council of State that in several cases it should be judged for organized crime. When we in the previous justice committee and the previous big thing changed on the org.krim paragraph, and I think it was a unanimous big deal that did, so that the demands – to demonstrate hierarchy and board meetings, however – in order to get someone convicted for organized crime were made more applicable to the police, we had hoped that there would be more cases to come up with. So there's something about focusing on that there has to be a spark-up in the networks. Just take the experience from my own area, Furuset in Groruddalen in Oslo, where we had a very extensive activity with drug trafficking, gangs, etc. around 2006-2007. After the police had taken on the big task, the crank, with a large rendition project for three to four years, it did not deliver results immediately, but in the long term. After the basic job that was done, crime in this area has been reduced by over 70 pst. So it's just to get the police to be encouraged by the letter of assignment to find methods and also work with the organized structures so that crime doesn't just pop up again, and new ones are recruited to do the same problems that you do. Because it is clear that there are scarce resources in the police. For example, even if the Council of State tells us that new posts should be allocated, it says: those who work with organized crime in Oslo, that they have a very tight framework, and that at least they don't have more people, rather fewer than before, to work with this field. I also believe that the other police districts have pressured resources. So it's important that you don't fall back on just focusing on individual things, but doing the long-term, very resource-intensive job, within scarce frameworks, rolling up the organized, dangerous networks, because they're threatening the social structure in a different way. I am pleased with the state council's emphasis on everything that's done, and that's of course the main thing here today: getting focus on it, getting the effort up against organized crime as a theme here on the Stortinget as well. But I think you have to be careful not to weaken the concept and approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1596	I think it is good to note that, by my side at least, there was nothing in the representative who now said from the pulpit, which I disagree with. This means that there is a broad consensus that one should fight organized crime. The only thing that then remains in a way is the use of the term ‘organised crime’ against the use of ‘profit-motivated crime’. I believe that if a reader reads the letter of assignment, it is very difficult to argue in the sense that organized crime has a lower focus now than before, provided that one then understands that profit-motivated crime is, in fact, largely about organized crime. There's a change, which now also materializes, and which makes some of the old theses challenging – because the organized crime is moving in a different way than before. In the past, criminal environments had been defined to a much greater extent. It was the kind of gangs who were involved in alcohol smuggling, and others who were involved in drugs. Now, in a way, the flow of international organized crime is completely different. A person moves in a way where the greatest profit is fastest, with the minimum risk of discovery. Then we also have to adapt to this kind of reality, and that's what we've tried to do when we use a slightly different concept than organized crime. But it won't reduce the pressure and focus on the huge job to be done to combat this crime phenomenon. And then target control and control parameter will always be under development. I am not saying that we have now found the optimal concept or the optimal way to follow up or measure it. Rather, on the contrary, these will be things that we are constantly concerned with making as focused as possible, both to ensure the right priority of the police and prosecution authorities, and also to achieve the political objectives laid down in this house. So I am absolutely convinced that we will see a development also in the target and control parameters in this area in the future. Finally, I think it is good to note the interpellant's commitment to the fight against crime in general. I believe that the list – which was not complete – that I made of measures taken to improve the police’s ability to stand in the fight against profit-driven crime actually shows that there is a formidable effort by the government that supports this house. I'm very happy about that. I am also very pleased that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have been given by the governments a substantial reinforcement of the efforts on police and prosecution authorities since the government change in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1607	The interpellant should be commended for addressing this question, and his articles illustrate in a very good way how extensive this issue really is. And the timing of this interpellation debate is really timely. Today we can read in several local guides both in the north and in the south that many Easter tourists have returned home to burglaries in their homes. The organised crime and mobile profit crime are linked. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat organised crime in a number of areas. The task of the control and supervisory authorities is clarified and the control conditions need to cooperate much more closely now than they have done in the past. As the Minister had in mind, an analysis and intelligence centre was set up in which the Customs Office, the Nav, the Tax Office and the police were to be included, precisely to establish a common picture of the situation and to exchange information between the control offices. Organised crime and cross-border crime are also closely linked. For this reason, the government of the 2016 state budget has considerably strengthened the Tolletaten: 120 new annual works, daily crews on Ørje and Svinesund, a dedicated analysis centre specialising in the inter-related smuggling activities that are taking place, electronic control at the country's border crossing points and ferries with foreign traffic. Organised crime and labour crime are also interrelated. That's what we've got in Norway, and it's a very important task to make sure that the foot fast is actually being smoked up. That's why there's a special center for labour crime in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Trondheim, and it's set at 10 million. additional to the State budget for further checks by the Labour Inspectorate to see that Norwegian labour regulations and tariff provisions are implemented and practised in Norwegian workplaces. The police have not been rigged to combat organized crime. The many police districts, 27 in the number, that we had up until now, have in themselves been a challenge in combating organised crime. 27 police districts, with 27 borders, have made the interaction far too bad. The evidence was that the police had to set up a so-called Grensenlös project in their own establishment in order to manage their own borders, which in a way stood as an obstacle to the fight against this crime. Now, the number of police districts has been reduced from 27 to 12, which means that research resources can be assembled in a completely different way than could have been done in the past. The Minister was also at the Coordination Body against Crime. It is worth noting that the government has now taken the initiative – and got it in place – that Ecocrime should also be part of the Coordination Body. In total, the government has implemented a number of measures against organised crime/work-life crime/the cross-border criminality of profits. All of this is linked as a challenging crime area in which the government really grips. A good story cannot be repeated too often, and I almost have to repeat the figures given by the minister from the pulpit in terms of what the government has strengthened the police with: 1,054 new police officers and 78 new police lawyers. This is going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1624	I'm joining in the sequence of those who thank the interpellant for taking up this topic. I also know the interpellant from the previous period, where he was on the Justice Committee, and there is no doubt about the burning commitment to organised crime that the representative of Bohemia has. I'd like to pay tribute for that. Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011, The Fight Against Organised Crime, which was almost a unanimous – or it was probably a unanimous – big business joined in 2011, is a good document. It brought together the Storting about an important effort against organised crime. For a long time, the right had called for an overall, overall strategy in this field, and we were very pleased with the result that was finally achieved, both from the then government and after Storting's treatment. The report was entitled ‘The fight against organised crime’. It is very rare in a democratic country and from a national assembly that the term ‘fight’ is used in peacetime, but it was deliberately used in that context to emphasize the seriousness of the matter. So it is not just a name for a big message, it was a clear message from the Stortinget and from the political leadership in Norway that we had to mobilize here. Crime itself is a serious threat, but what is also evident from the bigotry and the treatment of the Storting is that there is an additional dimension to organized crime that we must take on the deepest seriousness, and that is the emergence of shadow societies, of parallel societies that live by their own laws and rules, where violence is used to keep internal justice and violence used to create fear of the outside world, in order to create a greater leeway for serious crime. As far as I remember, the big message was the first from the Nordic countries to describe a general and national strategy. I think we're all going to take that and be proud of it. We see that general crime goes down. That's good. There's a lot of reasons for that, and I'm sure we'll have more opportunities to come back to that, but in parallel, we'll see that serious crime is increasing. That's in the picture we need to see this interpellation. I would particularly like to point out three strategies that we find in this big message, and which are also very clear in government policy. The first is to cooperate across, between different public agencies, but also to bring in the private sector. The criminality of work is mentioned. What is mentioned with economic profit as the driving force behind serious organised crime, and then we must mobilise widely in this fight, use that knowledge and build up the forces we can to combat it. Unfortunately, naivety and lack of knowledge have also been too prominent in this image for too long, and therefore we need to mobilise across public institutions and also involve the private sector in a good and sound manner. It's been done, and we have to do more of that. The second strategy I want to highlight, which was also very clear to the Council of State, is that cybercrime must be addressed much tougher, much clearer, because it is growing rapidly. Never before in the history of the world have such great values changed ownership by illegal means, as we see computer technology affords opportunities today in the event of copyright violations, fraud, extortion, etc. It must be clearly addressed. Finally, the last strategy I want to highlight is international cooperation. Norway, with its 5 million inhabitants and its police, is making an excellent effort, but if we are to meet this, it must be across borders, across several levels in several countries. The government is delivering good results. The near-police reform is highlighted, and I want to join the ranks of those who underline it. Police budgets have been strengthened and the number of police posts has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1641	It's an important debate the interpellant is traveling. This is about a problem that we have to fight against if we are to maintain the Norwegian model of society and avoid people's reliance on the system being weakened. Norway shall not be a market for organised criminal networks. We're going to work systematically and break up the networks before they rot. This must be the direction of the work done by the police. Organized crime is not visible to most of us, but often operates in the hidden. It could be about economic crime, drug crime and trafficking in human beings, in order to identify some forms. There is no doubt that the lack of border control and the free movement of goods and services in some areas have made it possible to run organised crime in Norway easier and the police's ability to fight this crime more difficult. The fight against organized crime is hard. New methods, both for criminals and for the police, are still being developed. Organized crime has flourished within new areas in the last few years, and now it is not just about objects, but often involves people as the subject of the criminal action. Unfortunately, there is only the top of the iceberg as when the media searchlights. We see that the police in the largest cities in the last few years have seen different projects against certain types of crime, and this has produced good results. For example, the project ‘Operation Black Painting’ in the Oslo Police District may be mentioned. The purpose is to detect crime in the craft industry. The results have our very good – and judges long. It has been uncovered organized crime, and the attention has been directed to this kind of industry. Fortunately, the fact that such things are discovered can also have a preventative effect. Several other projects could have been mentioned, but what is important is to ensure that this type of work is not only temporary, through limited-time projects, but that the work is done on a permanent basis. Only in this way can competence be built up in the police to discover emerging issues in the future. Resources are important when it comes to enabling the police to detect this type of crime. It is important that the police are also able to work on matters over time, even if the results do not come immediately. We must give a strong priority to the work on this phenomenon. If not, there will be too much social development in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1656	Organized crime and international organized crime are so serious that if we don't stop it, it threatens our entire social order. There are no limits to what can be earned on this type of crime, and then there is someone who will never stop. There's a lot of aspects of this that it's worth discussing. One of them, which there is no time to discuss now, is the balance between the surveillance society and a society that is going to fight this type of crime, where we have to constantly go up these boundaries and see how far you can go in using surveillance methods that can be justified in combating crime, but that can quickly move on to suspecting and violating the privacy of people in a way that the state must refrain from doing. Several people have been involved in the crime of working life. It's one of those areas where it's really increased violently. Sickness about undeclared work did not come to Norway with the Poles, there is no doubt that it has increased labour migration. But the other side of it is that there's a buyer at the other end, so this is also about raising awareness of completely normal actions in everyday life. When you buy a car wash, your daughter, you have to be aware that if it is too cheap, something is wrong. That awareness needs to be increased in society, because it's a lot of money to earn by cheating on the tax and underpaying people. A lot of people can actually be on it without them being aware of it. The interpellant was concerned that there are actions that have led to the capture of many criminals, who are eventually coming out. It's a serious problem. What do you do when people come out? What has been done in prison that makes fewer of them back on the same track? What do exit measures and measures to capture young people or others at risk of being recruited into criminal settings? I've read a lot of research that shows that it can be a bit random if you become a general criminal – to put it that way – or if you get extreme in different areas, and that this is often mixed up in different types of crime, often cross-border, often very violent and often very extensive crime, and that it is deadly to get out of these environments without help. Some exit measures have been implemented that have shown quite a good effect. The problem with some of those measures is that they are funded as projects. This is not a project – to say it like that – this is not something that goes over. There is also nothing that will only be relevant in the big cities. It turns out that some of those who are involved in extreme acts, who are both politically, religiously and criminally motivated, can also be in small communities. It is important that these exit measures, for example: The SaLTo method, which the Oslo police have used, is being developed and used in all police districts, that there are SLT coordinators in all police districts, and that it actually works, but that we also have and build up active exit measures to be able to catch up and get young people out of these environments, whether there are purely criminal environments, or there are other kinds of extreme environments. It's associated with the great danger for many of those who have been unfortunate and messed up into this, getting out of it again. It is then important to set up such measures, otherwise this spiral effect will only continue. That's why the aspects of this that are about catching up all those who are at the edge of getting caught up in this type of serious crime, are very important to get funded on a permanent basis, because this builds up skills that are demolished when the project is over. It's harmful, because you can't move on. These are permanent tasks that must be permanently financed in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1671	I came a little late, so if someone has said anything I should say, before me, I just get to say that a good thing can't be repeated too often. Organised crime is a major challenge in our society today. In terms of action, when I was in the Labour and Social Committee last time, we were working to put in place the Employment Centres and closer cooperation between the tax administration, the Nav and the police, so that we could get better grips on how we should both investigate and detect organised crime. It is carried out in the public sector – as probably mentioned by others. We have had major issues related to care for the elderly, where a person has almost been involved in the trafficking of persons in connection with underpayments and troublesome employment. We have it in private business. We've seen it in car wash and restaurant industries, and we've seen it in the construction industries, not least. I would like to say that in Sørlanden it has – thanks to good efforts from the trade union community – been revealed to large organised groups that have been involved in illegal construction. In organized crime, there is also often a disdain for human dignity. One is not guaranteed in the working environment. We've had cases where people have been seriously injured. They are not covered by any insurance rules, they do not have any safety in their employment, because these are criminal organisations that exploit people in the most serious way. There is broad agreement on the structural measures to bring together management organisations to address this issue. We had proposals for work centres, with appropriations, and suggested more. This was also the case during the negotiations with the government parties and the majority formation here on the budget for this year. But there are some differences between the political parties that I think it is important to mention: with regard to the organised labour-life crime in particular, which is extensive, and which intervenes in the whole picture, at least we in the Workers' Party believe that the changes in the labour-environment law adopted by the new government also belong, which is an embellishment of relations related to work-environment regulations, which can help – at the other end – to make it more difficult to take part of the criminal gangs that operate, because it may become more difficult to detect. Similarly, part of trustee responsibility and authority has also been reduced by the new Labour Environment Act. I believe that it is also important that one sees the whole of the crime of working life in a broad and holistic context, so that one not only isolates it into individual elements in terms of the measures to be taken. Professional trafficking in human beings is perhaps the most dramatic extreme of such a type of crime. We had an interpellation in the previous case that was about young minor asylum seekers who are disappearing from asylum recipients. We know that some of the criminal organizations are ready to recruit that type of minor for their business. Therefore, it is important to focus widely on this. It is also important that one strengthens international police cooperation, precisely because – as several mentioned, at least what I got from the debate after I got here – this is internationally organised crime, and action and implementation are also required in the international field and in the context of international cooperation in order to overcome that type of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1691	I would like to thank various speakers for their good words on the subject and for all they have mentioned. I have a comment on Harek Riveres, who said that the police have not been rigged to combat organized crime. I think that's right. The larger police districts built org.krim sections to meet it, but on a national basis it remained very much. Then it is important that police reform now, when it comes to content – because so far it has been a matter of division and such things, but now the content part needs to be built up – preserves the experience and good competence of the districts in terms of organised crime. I hope that it can be one of the things you're very obsessive about now in the follow-up to that debate: that the fight against organised crime is taken care of during the further work on police reform. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Werp, for a good report. He himself contributed a lot, I remember, in the last period and also later, with his own experience in combating MC gangs in his local environment. I am pleased with his emphasis on the increase in serious crime and the warning against the emergence of shadow societies. It was important, the representative Werp said that the org.krim message, which we dealt with in the previous period, is a good tool, and that there are many things that we need to work with further. I'd like to draw out a couple of points in the extension of what Mr. Warp said. We had a unanimous attitude about, among other things, two points which have not been followed up enough to date. The first concerns withdrawal. It is a major challenge that organised crime today often pays off even if criminals are convicted, because often the gain on the outside of prison sports awaits. This is a situation that is completely opposite to what we need: that crime should not pay off. This also has to do with exit programs and stuff. If the money waits outside, it is clear that it is more difficult to get them involved in exit programs. Already in the notification of organised crime, legislative changes have been notified, including: that the limitation period for withdrawal requirements shall not begin until the prison sentence and detention is completed, if appropriate. However, the legal changes in the legal framework in order to deal with withdrawal requirements in the long term and not to give them up have not yet been dealt with. I reminded them in the previous period and would like to remind them again. The same applies to my second point on the follow-up to the org.krim message, where there have been weaknesses in the area of money laundering. A large part of the proceeds from these criminal acts are, of course, money laundering – as I was in my post – by way of thugs in companies where there is legal activity, but with illegal money. Many of the money also ends up in tax havens abroad through many ways. So here there is a need for more efforts in the area of money laundering, and in the area of withdrawal, and I thank you for the debate and hope that in the future we can also work together against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1706	Thank you for a very good and reflected debate, I'll almost call it a conversation, for there's a very broad consensus in the Storting about the importance of combating profit-motivated organized crime. I believe that the political force that lies in the speeches that have come from the pulpit today is being noticed in the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities as important signals from the National Assembly. I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen that organized, profit-motivated crime is a potential threat to our social order. The developments we see are going very fast, and it is important that we as authorities are able to follow it and be as good at the forefront as possible. I believe that we are doing this now, but it will always be so that there may be new thoughts and new measures that will also have an effect. That is why I appreciate the conversation we have had today, which shows a constructiveness related to the problem that I think is very good. It is a challenge that organised profit-based crime continues to take new forms. One cannot look back and look at organized crime as one percent and that kind of organized crime. It's considerably more complex. We have examples, as this room is familiar with, where there is serious, organised crime under cover companies that appear to be legitimate, ordinary business. There is cooperation between doctors, lawyers, sometimes hubs and accountants to create an impression of a business that may hide not only the black economy, but perhaps also the most serious: trafficking in human beings and slavery. Therefore, these issues are complex but extremely important to maintain a focus on. I think it is clear that we agree very much on this point. I also agree with the interpellant in his last two points. As I was in my post related to withdrawal, it is an area where there is a significant potential for improvement. Some of this may be due to the need for regulatory changes, but other factors may also be due to the ability of the prosecution and the police to realise withdrawal values. Other countries are better at this than us. We have something to learn, and we're working on different scenarios to see how we can improve the recovery of the time that's coming, because there's no doubt that withdrawal is one of the most important tools we have to get the profit out of this crime. That is why the link to the concept we use, ‘profit-based crime’, is so well received when withdrawal on the other hand must be an important tool, as well as following up on the issue of access to methods for this type of crime. I thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1721	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1750	These are two things that I'm glad we can deal with together. These are some adjustments and corrections, but they are not less important for that reason. The EOS Committee in its annual report asked the Stortinget to amend the law of 3 February 1995 No. 7 and the control instructions. These amendments are purely technical and therefore there is an overall committee which supports the Act of 3 February 1995 No. 7 is now replaced by the following: ‘on the control of intelligence, surveillance and security services [[EOS Control Act]] In the second setting, Innst. 184 S for 2015–2016 to Document 8:41 LS for 2015–2016, it is proposed to amend the law so that it reflects the fact that the Defence Security Department, formerly the Defence Security Service, is now called the Defence Security Department. In order for the Storting to keep up with this and correct it, we need to make some changes to the legal text, and it has now been done in this proposal for a representative. That'll be consistent with reality, and that's always something the Greatness should strive for. Finally, I have to say that, according to Storting's Rules of Procedure, all Document 8 proposals are to be annexed to the Minutes. This has fallen out of the setting in case of an incursion, but I ask that it be included in the voting anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1761	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. Case No. 8–11 concerns the second processing of legal acts. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1810	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1816	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1824	During the debate, Stein Erik Lauvås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to wind up the joint municipal model at the time when no municipality anymore uses the inter-municipal cooperation model.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1972	The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1983	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e1995	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2002	During the debate Anne Tingelstad Wøien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for clarifications in the Higher Education Act so that the law formally equates the two alternative governance models for the institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2134	It is contested by I, Section 9-3, second paragraph, and Section 10-1, first paragraph. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2145	The Committee's attitude to the rest of I and II are then voted on. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2158	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2169	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2176	During the debate, Audun Lysbakken has tabled a total of 25 proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch school-based skills development in anti- bullying for principals, teachers and other employees at school, so that the knowledge of how to prevent and stop bullying is spread to all adults working in schools. A plan is required for all school staff to undergo such a schooling.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the complaint handling of bullying cases is transferred from County State to the Children’s Ombudsman or an independent bullying agent. The Ombudsman must be given resources if they do not have enough capacity to do so with the current manning. Until a national independent review body is in place, it is important to ensure adequate support for the organisations providing assistance to victims of bullying.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide the necessary powers and regulations to enable the Children’s Ombudsman/Mobbing Ombudsman to impose the necessary penalties such as fines on schools that do not take bullying seriously over time, in line with the recommendation of the Djupedal Committee.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the health care provider to pass on the right of students to psychologists, children’s and young people’s psychiatric outpatient clinics or other expertise, with a copy to the decision-maker.’ [[BUP]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all schools are associated with anti-tampering preparedness teams with sufficient capacity to assist in the fight against bullying’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more social and environmental advisers to be employed in high - bullying schools.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for projects to be launched to test models for better school-home cooperation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate better cooperation between the school and non-governmental organisations, in particular with a view to raising skills, raising awareness and reflecting on issues such as sexuality, intoxication, inclusion and bullying.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of grant schemes and other support schemes for organisations and volunteers working to prevent bullying and for a safe youth environment inside and outside school.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a regulation to provide greater opportunity to replace school management, which shows over time that they are unable to prevent and handle bullying.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend the Training Act in order to introduce school activity obligations, clarify the rules for dealing with bullying and improve the legal protection of students and the right to a safe physical and mental learning environment, based on the recommendations of the Djupedal Committee.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the law on zero tolerance for staff who violate students and increase the obligation of activity for school owners and schools if employees suspect that other employees are infringing students.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the legalisation of a settlement system for violations in cases where the school has not done enough to prevent, detect or deal with violations.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a vocational education and training environment in one of its legal faculties.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that regular, anonymous user surveys of the school health service are carried out.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the school health service has sufficient resources to follow-up the work against bullying.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that prevention of bullying is the theme of teacher, principal and principal education.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to entrust the Directorate of Education with the task of developing a package of skills for pupils and pupil councils with information on pupils’ rights, student democracy, adapted training and the advice and role of the selections in schools, in cooperation with the Student Organisation.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the school library, ‘still-room’ and other similar offers that provide students with a breathing room in their everyday school life.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asking the government to build up professional environments with a high level of competence on violations, bullying, harassment and discrimination related to the grounds for discrimination in school.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to encourage schools to include students in discussions and the work of violating regulations at schools, in line with the recommendations of the Djupedal Committee.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Directorate of Education with the task of clarifying the requirements of the curriculum in order to enhance the digital competence of pupils, including digital judgement.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the parental commission for initial training with the aim of clarifying the tasks, with particular attention to increased efforts related to the psychosocial school environment, in cooperation with the FUG.’ [[FUG]] Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that school plans for working with the psychosocial school environment are presented to the local government or county council for information.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a clear guide on dealing with abuses, bullying, harassment and discrimination based on knowledge of what is happening and on the school’s new duty of activity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2302	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2339	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2348	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2432	Case No. 8–11 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to law decisions 45–48. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-03-29.ana.ud682e2663	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
