ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e80	The representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Kristin Vinje, Mazyar Keshvari, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal, Bård Hoksrud, Christian Tynning Bjørnø, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and Eirik Milde, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren For Oslo: Guri Melby From representatives Åsmund Aukrust, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Anna Ljunggren, there are applications for leave from 15 November to 17 November – all to participate in the high-level part of the 22nd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the 12th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Marrakech, Morocco. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health For the Nordic counties: Anette Kristine Davidsen and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren For Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e173	Are Health and Ingunn Gjerstad are present and will take their seat. The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e181	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe and myself, I propose to amend the Working Environment Act § 14-12, first sentence, on temporary hiring of workers. [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e186	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e193	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e202	As negotiations are still ongoing between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties on the budget, it is clear that it will not be possible for the Financial Committee to give up the financial position by the deadline of 20 November. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the third paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget no later than 20 November. Does anyone ask for a word?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e212	I take note of the President-in-Office's briefing. I feel that this is an attempt to set a course for the budgetary procedure that differs somewhat from last year's experience, where there were daily delays and intransigence in dealing with the work of the Financial Committee. I would nevertheless say from this pulpit that this postponement too puts the Storting in a more difficult situation than is intended for the work of the Storting. Parties that are not in government or have cooperation agreements add a lot to their alternative budgets – the possibility of having them discussed, reviewed and looked up to a whole. This may be particularly true for smaller lots, with a limited capacity to deal with more than 20 areas in a very short time, where there will be details. And it is only when the final budget is adopted that opposition parties can complete their alternatives. With the arrangement that has now been outlined, there will again be very little time to take the responsibility that rests with us. I just want to say that this must at least be the final one. Postponement beyond this will be irresponsible for the treatment of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e223	Several have not asked for the word. Nor does the President feel that there has been any objection to his proposal – and the President’s proposal is deemed to have been adopted. As a consequence of the previous decision, it will not be possible for the Storting to examine the budgetary positions of the technical committees by the deadline of 15 December. The President will therefore also propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the sixth paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the budgetary positions of the technical committees should be reviewed by 15 December at the latest. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. Neither does anyone ask for the floor, and the President's proposal is deemed to be adopted. The President will further inform the Storting that the Presidency will soon define and publish a revised timetable for the release and management of budgetary positions. In this respect, the President will mention that representatives will have to assume that the meeting will be held in Stortinget on Saturday 17 December. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e253	Recently, we've seen some of the strongest battles in Syria since the civil war in the country started five and a half years ago. Aleppo has been under heavy bombing. The offensive against Raqqa has just begun, and in Iraq the long-planned battles of Mosul are in full swing. It is the fight against the ISIL terrorist organisation that will be the main focus of this presentation. But we're going to remember that the Syrian conflict started with a people's desire for freedom and a leader's will to use raw and brutal power to defeat it. A conflict that has lasted about the same time as World War II has killed thousands and led millions away. Fundamental rights in humanitarian law are constantly being violated. The ring-fences affect Syria, the region, Europe and the rest of the world – through country rage, mass effusion, radicalisation, terrorist attacks and international paralysis of action. The fight against ISIL is part of a global fight against violent extremism. We have a duty and moral responsibility to fight ISIL and extremism. I would like to thank you for this opportunity to explain Norway's efforts in the fight against ISIL. This statement will deal with: how ISIL has been given footholds in Syria and Iraq our humanitarian contributions to the region; how Norway contributes to the international coalition against ISIL, including military policy developments in the region and what will be our main challenges As I said, the conflicts in Syria began as a popular uprising against the sitting regime nearly six years ago. Today, Syria is a battlefield for regional players' power struggles. On the one hand, there is the Syrian regime, supported by Russia, Iran and Hezbollah. On the other hand, there are a number of opposition groups and militant rebel forces supported, among others. of the United States, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey. These are actors with different interests that may conflict with each other and the balance of power between them is constantly changing. This makes the situation inconspicuous and demanding. The civil war in Syria has created a space for action for radical groupings, such as ISIL, and ISIL has exploited the conflict in Syria to secure control of areas primarily in eastern Syria. The actors in the bloody civil war operate in other parts of Syria and have little focus on fighting ISIL. The fight against ISIL in eastern Syria and Iraq is therefore different from the conflicts elsewhere in Syria. ISIL has grown in a region destabilised by failing regimes, political repression and sectarian tensions. The conflicts in Syria and Iraq have helped to create the largest flow of refugees and migration into Europe in recent times. It is estimated that some 300,000 may have lost their lives in the conflict. Such numbers are necessarily uncertain. We have recently followed the battle for the city of Mosul, the main seat of ISIL in Iraq. It was in Mosul that the leader of ISIL declared the creation of the so-called caliphate more than two years ago. Since then, the civilian population has lived under ISIL's terror fields, and we are hearing about cruel acts. The cruel story of Jesidic Nadia Murad about how she was held captive and abused by ISIL rebels for several months is one testimony to this. Many women and children are still being held captive in Iraq and Syria, and the civilian population in Mosul is being used as human shields. ISIL spreads terror, fear, intolerance and hate. ISIL shows no mercy, for some. Human beings are used as targets and means in their warfare. The humanitarian crisis in the region is precarious. It is difficult to imagine the suffering that the civilian population is experiencing. In Iraq, there are still about 3.4 million people fleeing from ISIL. More than 10 million need humanitarian aid. Since ISIL began to lose ground in April 2015, more than 900,000 internal refugees in Iraq have returned to their homes, according to the UN. It's been a very dangerous journey. ISIL has planted mines and explosives on roads and in residential areas, schools and hospitals. In 2016, the UN estimates that 13.5 million people need emergency aid inside Syria. Six million of these are children. 6.5 million acids are internally displaced. In addition, over 4.8 million acids have already fled the country. These figures are overwhelming and make it difficult to take over all the individual branches that are behind them. In 2016, the government totals over 300 million. humanitarian measures in Iraq, and mine clearance is a high priority. To date, Norwegian-supported mine clearance in Iraq has contributed to the return of 2 100 people to their homes. Norway also supports several organisations assisting victims of gender-based violence, including the United Kingdom. jesidic women and children. Norway has taken a global lead in the humanitarian effort in Syria. We are the fifth largest humanitarian donor country in Syria and its neighbourhoods. We're contributing 10 billion. kr over 4 years. So far we have paid or contracted more than 90 pst. of our contribution for 2016. The Government took the initiative of an international donor conference for Syria held in February. There, a total donation of 12 billion was mobilised. dollar. It's a historically high number. But we have to do more. Several countries have to contribute. The conference initiators have made systematic efforts to ensure that payments are made. International donors have committed to contributions of 6.3 billion. dollars in 2016. That's 5 pst. more than the initial commitments. The October figure shows that some 4.7 billion. dollar has been paid so far. We must avoid a generation of Syrian children growing up without school. Education is a prerequisite for rebuilding societies destroyed by war. An important result of the Syria Conference is better cooperation with Syria’s neighbouring country on training for Syrian refugees. I met some of the Syrian refugee children when I visited Lebanon and Jordan last year. They had heartbreaking stories to tell. We must help to give these children a future. Norway has fulfilled our promise of 15 pst. of our humanitarian aid to Syria and its neighbourhoods will go to education. Our support now amounts to 20 pst. Through support for UNICEF, Refugee Aid and Redd Barna, the government has contributed to the training of 360 000 Syrian refugee children between 5 and 17 years of age in Jordan and Lebanon. In line with humanitarian principles, we and our partners give priority to helping where the needs are greatest. Our partners work in complex and demanding landscapes. In order to gain access to the civilian population, negotiations with the regime or with armed groups are often required to control the area in which assistance is to be provided. As a humanitarian actor, it is important to be impartial: to help the civilian population affected, regardless of where they come from and where they are. This is very demanding in such a politicized landscape as Syria. To find out where the needs are greatest, our humanitarian partners depend on contact with the parties to the conflict. That doesn't mean they support any of the sides. Here we are dealing with basic humanitarian principles that Norway will defend and promote in every context – not least in Syria and Iraq. All parties to the conflict have an obligation to comply with the fundamental rules of international humanitarian law. We cannot accept targeted attacks on hospitals and schools, as we have seen for a long time in Syria. It is unacceptable that health professionals are attacked when they work to save lives, or that teachers and students are killed at school. Those who commit war crimes must be held responsible. Norway has supported organisations that document violations of humanitarian law in Syria. These evidence could later be used in legal proceedings at national or transnational level. Norway is also among the states that have asked the UN Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. The UN Security Council has made this clear: the international community must use all the necessary means to halt the destruction of ISIL. Norway has followed the call to contribute. The government has contributed on many fronts in its efforts against ISIL in the last two years. Our efforts are mainly carried out through the international coalition against ISIL, which was established in 2014. It's a broad coalition of 67 countries and organizations. Both Western and regional countries participate. The coalition is working on the following five tracks: halting the supply of finance, stopping the supply of foreign fighters, taking military action, responding to ISIL’s propaganda and having measures to stabilise. I'll explain our efforts in these areas. Let me start with the effort we have to stop providing funding. Long was the illicit sale of oil and taxation by the energy sector ISIL’s largest source of income. ISIL could attract foreign warriors with promises of high wages and good conditions. Through targeted attacks, the coalition has weakened ISIL’s access to finance. Norwegian experts are involved in analysing ISIL’s funding base, in particular from the oil and energy sectors. The aim is to find increasingly better ways of blocking ISIL sources of income. When ISIL loses territorial control, the income base is also considerably reduced. ISIL should be expected to generate revenue from other forms of terrorist financing in the future. In December 2015, Norway, together with 67 countries, supported a Security Council Resolution extending the sanctions against persons, groups and companies supporting ISIL. A Norwegian regulation obliges Norwegian operators, in particular banks, to contribute to this important work. Let me explain the military effort. Let me first stress that when Norwegian soldiers are sent out, it should always be based on international law. Our military presence and our allies in Iraq is based on a request from Iraq to help defend the country against attacks by ISIL. Our contribution is based on the consent of Iraq and is part of a broad coalition. Military use of force against ISIL on Syrian territory has its international legal basis in the collective self-defence of Iraq, in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. In addition, UN Security Council Resolution 2249 recognises that ISIL poses a global threat to international peace and security. The resolution supports a basis of international law for the use of power based on Iraq's right to self-defence. In the last two years, Norwegian military forces have trained security forces in the Kurdish areas of Iraq to enable them to support the fight against ISIL. In addition, we contribute medical personnel to the coalition hospital in Erbil. The training in Northern Iraq has produced good results. The need for training in basic military skills at the training centre in Erbil is now less. As the Storting is informed, we will reduce our efforts there somewhat. Support for Iraqi forces is still needed elsewhere than in Erbil. The Government will assess requests from Iraqi authorities and the coalition for military contributions in the usual way and consult the Stortinget. The Iraqi authorities have also asked NATO for cooperation in capacity building. The details of such cooperation are currently not clear. The Government decided in May to strengthen its military efforts against ISIL. The strength of about 60 soldiers will provide training, advice and operational support to local Syrian groups that themselves fight against ISIL. The Norwegian forces are based in Jordan and are now part of the ‘Inherent Resolution’ operation. The Norwegian forces have a mandate to train, advise and provide operational support on Syrian territory if the operational concept so requires. The situation in the areas in which Norwegian forces operate is changing rapidly. This is a difficult task in a demanding and unbridled landscape. We are closely following developments, and Norwegian forces are making ongoing assessments to be able to solve the mission effectively and according to the national mandate. The supported local groups are subject to a clearing process. It is a demanding work that needs to be carried out continuously, which is one of the reasons why we send some of our most experienced soldiers to solve the mission. However, I would like to reiterate that we can never have an absolute guarantee of where the loyalty of local actors lies in the future. A prerequisite for the support is that the operation is directed towards ISIL and does not undermine the ongoing process of a future political solution in Syria. Mechanisms have been established at operational level between the coalition and other relevant actors fighting ISIL in order to avoid conflict. The Norwegian contribution of strength is subject to the coalition's command, it is quite common for our strength contributions to international operations. But Norwegian control of forces has been ensured. We have continued to rule over the Norwegian forces. We have Norwegian staff officers at all relevant headquarters and command lines. The Norwegian Head of Force is as always exercising a national ‘Red Card’ function. This ensures that our contribution is not used in conflict with the national mandate. The soldiers we send are well prepared and have a long experience in solving such assignments. The contributions are highly valued among allies in the coalition. For the safety of my own and other forces, I cannot go into detail about the operation in which the Norwegian forces participate. The Government emphasises that the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy should be kept as informed as possible and will do so in the future. The military fight against ISIL has made considerable progress in the last year. Coalition, various militias and Kurdish forces have helped Iraq to reconquer strategically important ISIL cities, territories and supply lines. With the aid of the coalition, Iraqi forces and their supporters are conducting an operation to take Mosul back. But this can take a long time. In Syria, local forces, with the help of the coalition, have driven ISIL out of important areas. In Northern Syria, ISIL is driven away from the Turkish border. They are thus largely cut off from the supply of resources and personnel. However, ISIL still controls the city of Raqqa in Syria, the main seat of ISIL’s self-declared caliphate. The first initial phase of isolating ISIL that has just started. Although ISIL is deprived of its territory, we still need to be prepared for a long-term struggle. This fight must be fought with more means, where military efforts are only one of several. As ISIL loses footholds in important cities like Mosul and Raqqa, we must expect the group to gradually put even more emphasis on terrorist operations. ISIL is likely to increasingly shift the focus from what we can call the ‘physical caliphate’ to the ‘virtual caliphate’. This could mean an increased effort on terrorist attacks outside the core area of Syria and Iraq. Let me also explain in more detail the Norwegian contribution to stabilisation measures. The armed conflicts in Syria and Iraq have shattered social structures. Syria was an intermediate country. Now half of the population lives in extreme poverty. Humanitarian action is vital for the civilian population in Iraq and Syria. At the same time, we need to enable the local population to build a future, in a secure environment. Only then will we have stable societies. This will take a long time, perhaps generations. The government strengthens the commitment to stabilisation measures both for Iraq and Syria. Next year, the government will almost double the effort, to a total of 400 million. kr. Where humanitarian aid is used for long-term action, it will be done on the basis of the humanitarian principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence. The prospects for stabilisation are initially greater in Iraq than in Syria. In Iraq, Norwegian support for stabilisation measures is channelled primarily through the United Nations Development Fund. We support local employment, police services and health and school services. We help rebuild infrastructure and improve food safety. Norwegian authorities cooperate with Iraqi authorities on entrepreneurship training for young people and the unemployed. Between January and November 2015, 793 new enterprises were established through this project. This is how we help to give young Iraqis both hope and tools to build a better future for themselves. It is particularly demanding to rebuild communities in Syria, where the prospects for policy solutions are low. Together with the international donor community, we are working to extend cooperation with the UN and other appropriate partners with actions beyond short-term humanitarian aid. Norway also contributes to the coalition’s efforts to strengthen the knowledge of foreign fighters in the region and to prevent foreign fighters from joining ISIL. The devastating ideology of ISIL still finds its foothold in some environments in Europe. ISIL has created a targeted and sophisticated propaganda device that actively uses social media for its recruitment. It is believed that since 2014, between 15,000 and 25,000 foreign fighters from about 80 countries have traveled to Syria and Iraq to fight on the ISIL side. These figures are uncertain. Some of these foreign wars are Norwegian. We have also seen that terrorists with no foreign war experience, but inspired by jihad, have carried out attacks in Europe. The coalition has weakened ISIL's propaganda apparatus, and the group is losing a lot of its appeal. Norway contributes to this work. We are particularly concerned about supporting voices that show alternatives to ISIL's hateful ideology. We see that the effort is beneficial. The broad efforts of the coalition have weakened ISIL's morale. Military defeats, wage cuts resulting from reductions in funding sources, increasing corruption and brutal working conditions have made it less attractive to go out as foreign warriors. It has also become more difficult to get into Syria and Iraq. Through mutual exchange of information, we and our cooperating countries have also gained a better overview of foreign fighters and their movements. Many are radicalized locally. In Norway, PST continues to regard extreme Islamism as the biggest terrorist threat to Norwegian interests. It is therefore important that we focus on prevention — both nationally and internationally. In 2014, Norway was the co-rapporteur for Security Council Resolution 2178, with measures to prevent xenophobia. Action against ISIL must be seen in the context of the broad and long-term efforts to prevent terrorism and against violent extremism. Civil society, youth and women play an important role in this work. In 2015, Norway initiated a network that has so far engaged 650 young people from over 100 countries in preventing recruitment to violent extremism. We have also taken the initiative of a global alliance of women's organisations supporting local work, among others. in Syria and Iraq. During the opening of the UN General Assembly in September, I hosted a meeting on the prevention of violent extremism. Here we discussed how authorities and civil society can cooperate better on prevention. The result was the launch of a global cooperation mechanism. Through this, we can jointly identify new solutions and measures. At home, the government has been committed to setting up a law firm that criminalises foreign fighter activities. In our case, Stortinget adopted changes to the penal code that make it criminal to engage in activities in an armed conflict abroad. In 2015, the PST launched a national investigation effort for the investigation of returnees. So far, the PST has targeted 26 foreign fighters. Several are imprisoned and sentenced. As of 2015, the number of foreign fighters travelling from Norway has fallen dramatically. That also applies to the number of returnees. The government will continue to work to prevent ISIL and other extremist groups from beating roots at home. The Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism will be central to this work. It is important to be early on in prevention work. Researchers and civil society are involved in a continuous national dialogue on adaptation of the Action Plan. We have strengthened the competence of, among others: police, teachers and health professionals. Several municipalities have developed local action plans to capture earlier signs of radicalisation in the local environment. During the harvest and winter a systematic effort is being undertaken to further develop the measures in the plan. So to the political challenges ahead: the conflicts in the region give ground to the attraction we see that ISIL still has. Conflicts can only be resolved by political means. Developments in the region are a challenge for NATO and its southern flanks. Russia's military involvement in Syria is particularly worrying. It supports the brutal abuse of the Syrian regime against its own population. In addition, we again see that the Russian military force contributes to greater uncertainty and unforeseeability in an already tense security policy situation. The action burden in the Security Council is alarming. Norway has a fundamental interest in a world order based on respect for international law and the principles of the UN Charter. We rely on the UN to discharge its responsibility to ensure international peace and security. It is a responsibility which rests primarily on the permanent members of the Security Council. Members of the UN Security Council and regional players with influence over the parties on the ground must take responsibility for finding a Syrian-led political solution. The United States and Russia play a crucial role. The UN has long tried to launch political negotiations, but it was only in spring that the parties came to the negotiating table. In the last year, the United States and Russia have tried to negotiate two truce agreements. In our standstill lasted a few weeks. It only made small progress. Since then there have been many setbacks. Norway is actively supporting the UN's efforts for a political solution in Syria. I strongly believe that the solutions for Syria will be more comprehensive and lasting if women and civil society are included. We have therefore worked to ensure that women and other civil society groups can contribute to negotiating processes. In the negotiations that took place in Geneva this spring, several civil society groups contributed. Even in Iraq, an inclusive political process is the only way to achieve lasting stability. ISIL's emergence in Iraq is due to many years of conflict, political mismanagement and sectarian split leadership. It is important that Iraqi authorities facilitate inclusive policy solutions and national reconciliation. The inclusion of the marginalised Sunni Arab population is particularly important. Without this, ISIL and other extremist groups will once again be given the leeway. It is important that all Iraqi actors are willing to sideline disputes, power struggles and guilt issues. The release of Mosul is thus a test of their will and ability to find common solutions for Iraq in the future. The international community has made significant progress in the fight against ISIL. ISIL is weakened. The group has lost more than half of the areas they have controlled in Iraq, and a quarter of the land areas they controlled in Syria. In Libya, they are largely displaced from their headquarters in Sirte. Nevertheless, ISIL remains a significant security threat. In the last two years, ISIL has carried out bloody terrorist attacks in the Middle East, Europe and Asia. We must be prepared for ISIL to continue to inspire, contribute to and carry out attacks against the West. We have already seen that ISIL compensates for the loss of areas in Iraq with several terrorist attacks. Norway is an important ally in the fight against ISIL, and we still have to be. We must contribute military, economic and political instruments. In addition, we shall maintain our leadership role in the humanitarian field. Where possible, we will add to long-term prevention through various stabilisation measures. As you know, the arrivals of asylum in Norway were low in 2016. The Government's proposal to re-balancing the 2016 budget therefore suggests a reduction in ODA-approved refugee expenditure compared to the revised national budget. We aim to ensure that these funds can be widely redispatched to humanitarian aid and assistance in these vulnerable areas. We will not succeed unless the conflict in Syria finds a political solution. Nor will we succeed without an inclusive political process in Iraq. The UN has been given a comprehensive mandate to facilitate a peaceful settlement in Syria. But the UN cannot do this without the support of the international community. The fight against ISIL requires a lot of us. It confronts us with new global security challenges, dilemmas and difficult decisions. Our military commitment to ISIL can make us vulnerable to attack here at home, nor is it without risk to those who are going out. The fight against ISIL and violent extremism is a long-term investment in our common security. This is not a fight we choose, but a fight we have to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e367	The President will now propose, under the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one contribution of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e372	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. We stand in this Chamber assembled to see the so-called Islamic State as a repressive terrorist field in the areas of Iraq and Syria that ISIL continues to control. ISIL poses a very serious threat to stability throughout the Middle East, and the terrorist organization and people who are inspired by it pose one of our time's most serious threats also to us and our allies. In short, ISIL is a serious security threat for us, for Europe, for NATO, for the Middle East and far beyond this region. Therefore, ISIL must be combated. We can't ignore it. It's solid. And we have to act wisely, because there is not one selected measure here that gives all the answers, as the Prime Minister also stressed. ISIL and violent Islamist extremism must be met with firmness – military, political and social – similar to our own societies. Norway contributes militarily to the fight against ISIL as part of a broad security coalition, and it has the Workers' Party's support. The main battle must be fought by people in the region, those who are affected, those who will win back their country. But we can help. Our forces are training and supporting forces that are fighting against ISIL, both Kurdish militiamen in Arbil in Northern Iraq and Syrian forces in Jordan. We've recently seen that the coalition's efforts are producing results. ISIL is propelled back. The terrorist organization's grip on important cities such as Aleppo, Mosul and Raqqa has weakened. The military effort Norway is part of seems to work. The strengths that Norwegian forces train and support now contribute to ISIL’s unquestionably weaker military position than in several years and experience much weaker recruitment. It's uplifting. There are still difficult dilemmas related to the military efforts of Norway. We train and support forces that we do not fully know the role of in a future Middle East. We are contributing militarily in a conflict where it is not possible for anyone now to say something certain about what the region will look like if and when ISIL is being repressed. It therefore requires the government to pay particular attention and attention to changes on the ground, military and political. Therefore, we need to be prepared to change and, if necessary, complete contributions that do not work as intended, as we understand the government did when they completed our training in Baghdad. But those dilemmas are not in the way of recognising the military results achieved by the coalition and the Norwegian forces as part of it. Thus, there is reason to pay tribute to the Norwegian women and men who are involved in this. We can hardly win other people's warriors, but we can support and train others to take a fight that is legitimate and in line with the values we all share. Then we must nevertheless, or just now as the military effort seems to give results, remind ourselves that a final battle against ISIL can only be won politically. Lasting stability and better security in the region can only be achieved by at the same time weakening the conditions for ISIL to grow strong. It's mostly about politics, not primarily about military action. That means that we should help find political solutions, especially in Iraq, which better include the moderate Sunni Muslim leaders and the peoples who have applied for ISIL or tolerate ISIL, not because they are driven by religious conviction, necessarily, but because they feel under attack from other groups, especially the Shia Muslim majority in Iraq. It also means that we cannot give up on a political solution to the cruel civil war in Syria. It means doing everything in our power — in the region, in every country that has foreign fighters in Syria — to prevent the radicalisation of young men and women. It's an effort that goes the same way to our own country and Norwegian community. Here, not military means of power are the solution, but good police and intelligence work, along with the mobilization of community, which gives young people belonging, and which makes them remain citizens with obligations, rights and trust in their fellow human beings. We must be firm in our support for Norwegian forces in Jordan and Iraq. We must be open in this Chamber to the dilemmas of military action against ISIL. And we have to be honest that the war against ISIL is not only won militarily, but most of all through political solutions. On this basis, the Workers' Party continues to support Norway's military and political contribution to bringing an end to the terrorist field that ISIL has established in Iraq and Syria and the security threat that ISIL still poses to us and our allies. We assume that the government keeps the Storting properly informed about the development of this demanding task.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e397	I would first like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough explanation of what the government is doing to prevent terrorism from getting further footholds. I would also like to thank the Norwegian forces, instructors, sanitary staff and other personnel who contribute to the coalition against ISIL. In good tradition, Norway is involved in helping where fundamental rights of people are restricted, threatened and attacked. The situation in Iraq and Syria represents the greatest crisis of our time. In Syria, the brutal civil war is now within its sixth year. It has cost over 300,000 lives. The numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons in Iraq and Syria increased and formed a large part of the massive flow of refugees and migration into Europe last year. As the Prime Minister also stated, the civil war in Syria is very inconclusive, with a complicated image and with the transfer of influence to other countries in the region. The fact that an increasingly self-reliant Russia has been involved on the part of Assad in the last year has not helped to improve the situation. Rather, it has meant more suffering for the civilian population. The war against ISIL in Syria and Iraq has called for coordinated action with both civilian and military, political and economic components. As our prime minister said in 2014, we see a war without rules, with warriors without morals. A collective international opinion already said that enough is enough. Unfortunately, we see that there's no quick fix, but the statement here shows that the international community's combined ability to fight ISIL, and that's good. This is a battle with a long time horizon, with both progress and setback. The government with the Prime Minister at the head has taken the lead on the civil side. Through the January London GSP, which also took part in Merkel and Cameron, the government granted more than 10 billion. kr over 4 years. We know we're at risk for a lost generation if children and young people don't get education. It is in this way reassuring that the Prime Minister today announces that the aid is coming, and that we are keeping our national targets for 2016. Overall, they promised 10 billion. dollars from the world community over the same period of time. It is now important that the countries that have registered contributions keep pace and ensure that the promises are kept, so that those who are on the run are provided with the necessary training and health care. The complexity of the image made it not unproblematic to send forces to the region, but the suffering of the civilian population makes it absolutely necessary. Norwegian forces train, advise and support local groups in their fight against ISIL, initially without going into armed conflicts. At the same time, we know that all missions involve danger. Norwegian participation has its basis in international law and Iraq's desire for assistance to stop ISIL's mercenaries. The world community agrees that ISIL must be combated. The size has been kept informed and consulted on the government’s contribution to the fight against ISIL in several stages. In 2014, it was decided to make a military contribution to the training of Iraqi forces. The Government has decided to continue the Norwegian contribution to capacity building in Northern Iraq until March 2017. The UN has repeatedly called on all Member States to step up their efforts to combat ISIL in their havens in Iraq and Syria. United Nations Security Council Resolution 2249 obliges all Member States to assess whether they can strengthen their efforts in the fight against ISIL. In May this year the government decided to make a new military contribution, based in Jordan, to the coalition. Here Norwegian forces shall train local Syrian groups to release areas currently controlled by ISIL. The decision is again about the collective self-defense of Iraq, because attacks organised and provided by Syria are seen as attacks on Iraq, and are therefore in line with the UN resolution. By providing the support needed to defeat ISIL, we will in the long term reduce the threat of terrorism at home. As the Minister of Defence said, our strength contribution was first discussed: not to contribute can also have a price. Even more precariously, it is to prevent the brutal attacks on the civilian population in the region and once again allow the Iraqis to gain control of their homes, homes, land and natural resources that ISIL has deprived them of. We see that a united, democratic front against ISIL has produced results. Their self-declared caliphate is shrinking now, both in scale and in number of sympathizers. We must also prevent new conflicts from fading in the wake of the existing ones. We cannot afford to develop regional disputes into global conflicts. Continuous action by the international community is needed. And that's what Norway is contributing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e422	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for a very good and thorough presentation – a statement that shows to those degrees that the fight against ISIL is about fighting in many different areas and many fronts. It's going to be a long-term work. If we don't succeed, the world will look completely different than what you want in this room and in the rest of the world. I also want to start by thanking the Norwegians who are contributing in this region to the fight against ISIL. These are those soldiers and special forces who contribute to training, health personnel and humanitarian personnel working in the area to help the civilian population. A great deal of effort is being made in many areas and by many people. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who are involved in this. In 2014, when the coalition was set up, consisting of 67 countries and organisations, it was agreed that there were several tracks to work after. The government shows through this statement that it is involved in following up all these tracks. There were the following five tracks you wanted to work after: the first was to stop the provision of funding. There has been a thorough work, and it is quite obvious that IS is now struggling to finance its expenses. We also see that it is linked to giving wages to soldiers etc. It was also very important to stop the supply of foreign fighters. There has also been a thorough work done. There it is very important that we from Norway are very tough, by following up and punishing the people who are coming back, who have helped to contribute to the barbaric acts that we see taking place in the region. The next thing is military effort. Norway has contributed to the training and guidance of these forces, in particular these groupings. But once again, as the Prime Minister was also involved, in a difficult situation, precisely because we are not quite sure how these groupings will operate after fighting IS. Furthermore, ISIL’s propaganda needs to be addressed and measures taken to stabilise. It is quite obvious that the world community must not just focus on what is happening right now, because it is extremely important that ISIL is controlled by all means. We have to make sure that ISIL is shut down. We have to make sure that we stop the barbarism that is now happening to civil society in the region. But we also have to focus on what happens afterwards. Norway needs to have an exit strategy: how do we react when the military contribution itself begins to approach the end? What happens then? The Prime Minister was concerned about something very important in his presentation. It is a matter of being prepared for the fact that fighting the forces of ISIL in the neighbourhood could lead to terrorist actions and other things that go beyond the core area they currently have in Syria and Iraq. This we have to make sure that we get in place. If you look at what's happening in Mosul, we have to know, what happens when you've turned back ISIL in Mosul? In this way, a number of actors will also be able to register on the road. What happens afterwards, in the vacuum of power that arises when one has managed to combat these forces? I'm very sure of what the government is doing. We work in many areas. But we can't get anywhere, and you can't get any stability in this area unless you build up future generations – with security, education and security – and make sure you have something to go after. Therefore, the humanitarian contribution to the construction of schools, hospitals and institutions is extremely important in the coming period. First, however, ISIL must be combated. Then you have to make sure to build the structures. At the same time, we need to have an exit strategy: what happens when that day comes and you're done with the so-called military mission in the area. Then you also have to be ready to operate in other fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e445	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for a thorough, good and sober statement on the fight against ISIL, one of our greatest threats to international security and peace. I would also like to thank the Norwegian military involved in this important work, and all other actors involved in fighting against ISIL, for contributing to long-term development, from aid workers to police – and to diplomacy. After ISIL conquered large land areas in Iraq and Syria, they got their iron grip strengthened before a coalition was created that now drives them to retreat. It is strategically important that it is the region's own forces that face that battle. ISIL wants to present it as a religious end-time fight against the evil powers of the West, but now they are driven back by local forces from the Middle East. We're witnessing a time change. We've seen ISIL's growth. Now we are witnessing the first act of ISIL's case. But we shouldn't have any illusions about a quick and easy-to-use saying. This becomes long-lasting, devastating and a bloody battle, but that the wind has turned is clear in many areas. About half of the land controlled by ISIL is now freed. Several of the leaders are gone, and their recruitment of new forward warriors is drying in. The economic strength of ISIL is becoming weak day by day. They lose oil revenue and must cut off good to their warriors. The setback seems demoralizing to many. We shall have no illusions: the struggle will be prolonged, their ideology will continue to spread, and he will motivate a dangerous global network of terrorism. For a long time to come, a staggering effort is needed to vaccinate against extremism, and close cross-border police cooperation to find and stop terror cells. What ISIL stands for is a tyranny with a totalitarian uniformity. That region needs, is democracy, human rights and legal protection. Beating ISIL back militarily is just one stage in that fight. It must be followed up by aid for reconstruction, political stabilisation and solutions that can bring lasting peace. A decisive test is whether there is a credible protection of minorities, both ethnic and religious. Yesterday I read about the city of Keramlis, a Christian village in northern Iraq. No, the city is freed. Last Sunday, many who had fled from ISIL came back to attend a church service and review their homes. Tears ran as church bells could be heard again – for the first time in two years. But the church room was vandalized by Islamists before they pulled out. The inventory was broken, the statue of Virgin Mary was beheaded. And when they visited their old houses, they found them destroyed, plundered, and rampaged. One of the city's teachers expressed that many felt: I just feel a great grief, I'm not sure when or if I want to come back here, and I'm thinking about my children – do they want a future here? That's what the civilian population is now asking. It's to the seventh and last nudity they have to deal with. Should they become refugees – or should they start their lives again in their homelands? In that case, they need more than bombs, artillery and homes; they need help, jobs, political solutions and hope. Europe was also affected by the ISIL terror this summer. We should not forget, however, that the evil that one has experienced in Europe is just a fraction of the evil that the Middle East has experienced from ISIL. I call here a Christian village, but we also need to know that those who liked the most of ISIL's mercenaries are just Muslims – Muslims in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e464	First, thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough discussion of Norway's role in the fight against ISIL and the situation in Syria and the surrounding areas. The central party is no less concerned about the power and suffering that we see in this region than the other party in this room is. Nor is there any doubt that ISIL’s terror threatens stability throughout the region. But Norway has no long tradition of making military contributions without a mandate from the United Nations or as part of a NATO operation. The Norwegian traditions are primarily about providing humanitarian aid, and we should do so, preferably to an even greater extent than today. I want to commend the government for following up the Central Party initiative to have an international donor country conference – and in such a good way, and for his success. It makes the government feel very honored. The centre party was skeptical of Norwegian war participation in Iraq, and we were at least as sceptical of sending Norwegian forces to contribute to the conflict in Syria. There is no doubt that Norwegian forces are making a formidable effort where they are located. Our scepticism is not directed towards the solar data - on the contrary, it is directed towards the decisions behind their difficult work. There are two questions I and the Central Party have asked the government in time after the decision that Norwegian forces should train soldiers in the Syrian struggles. The first thing is, who's training the solar data? What background do they have, who sympathizes with, and what is their motivation for war in Syria? The next question that is also of particular importance is, who sees the government as legitimate government in Syria? Despite the fact that we have asked several times, we do not feel that we have received good, clarifying answers. The Prime Minister has told us that the government should do a lot to make sure that we knew who we actually gave military training. Among other things, lie detectors were referred to as a method. I was not sure when I got the answer, and I have to confirm that I am no longer safe. I saw the documentary that will be shown at Focus on NRK tonight. The documentary doesn't make me calm either. He saw his finger on the same questions I asked the government without getting any answers. I hope the Prime Minister today in his summary will answer clearly what I think many people are asking about. The Godal Committee provided an in-depth analysis of the Norwegian contribution in Afghanistan. One clear conclusion from the Godal Committee was that one had to have a clear plan for political solution and an exit strategy before entering a future war. It's hard to see that one has a clear plan for a politically resilient solution in Syria, if one hadn't understood who a mine is legitimate government and governmental power in the country. Researcher at the Defence College Tormod Heier already warns before Norway sends soldiers to Iraq, about the consequences. In the class fight, he said, among other things. that Norway in Iraq could: ‘Risks of falling into a long-term civil war, and I still have the good fortune to see what we want to achieve from political goals at the other end’. His criticism is probably even better in Syria. It was interesting to the right prime minister's analysis of the political situation around Syria and ISIL. There is a situation that requires it. There are no reasons to sympathise with any of the ISILs. Many also seem to be able to change. Two days ago, the newly elected president of the United States gave an interview with the Independent. There he said, among other things.: Currently, we support rebels against Syria, and we have no idea who these human beings are. At the same time, warn the future president of the United States, saying that if the United States were to end up attacking Assad, they could end up fighting Russian forces. Obviously, the interview is not a fascination with the situation in Syria. Equally, it underlines the complexity of the situation and the need to manage all scenarios. I hope that the day will come when one can enter into peace negotiations in the area, including Syria. When that day comes, it is important that Norway, with its traditions as a peace negotiator and advocate for peace, is not perceived as a partiality, but as an actor who can build bridges between counterparties that can be with and build a lasting peace in what is today a very troubled region, where many, many people enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e490	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for what I think was a good explanation, and I would also like to thank, like the others, all those who do a job on the ground for the decisions made in government and greatness. The fight against IS is important, but I think we should also be able to think back to the debates we've had in this Chamber in the last few years. I get a feeling that the worst thing that scares me is always tending to get worse and worse. I remember debates here where Hamas was the worst thing you could think of being delivered to this world, or when the Taliban was the worst thing you could think of doing peace negotiations with, but now it's IS. I hope that nothing gets worse after that, but we need to have a little perspective that we've seen a development with quite extreme military powers, which uses quite extreme instruments. Suffering if I fully agree with the main features of all that the Prime Minister presented, I think it is important to learn both from Afghanistan and from what we have done in the past in Iraq, from what we have done in Libya, and from the other operations we have had. It's important to take all of those lessons with you. I agree with the representative Gahr Støre when he says that peace is not made militarily. Peace is something we make politically, and we have to learn from the processes we've been in. Afghanistan has taught us that when we first commit and enter the military, it will take a long time. It will take a long time to work out peace, and the war is not over either, sail if the military actions may be over. The use of military power obligates. It obliges us to follow up further, but it also obliges us to follow the consequences of our participation. As the representative Hareide said, when we go in and help different military groups, it therefore also raises some moral issues, when they do not follow the international law of war as we believe it should be followed. We've learned that in Libya we went in too short. We've learned that in Syria, the world was paralysed, and we couldn't get hold of it until that war had reached an enormous extent. The only thing that helps is if we manage, for some, especially the children, also in the war that we now see happening, to cultivate hope. Hope is the only thing that helps towards extreme structures, like those we see at IS. That is why the education effort is so important. That's why the whole school effort we've been doing with the government is so important. That's why lifting the girls is especially important. Because if we're really going to be able to cope with more and more extreme environments, it's building the hope of people who work. Hope is the best way to dissipate, and it's abated these nourishes their cancers from. I also think it was good that the Prime Minister had a round of extremism. We see it grow, not just Muslim extremism. This weekend’s demonstration shows that the far right environments in Norway are also growing. The struggle against extremism is quite equal no matter what sign extremism has. We have to learn the codes that break the emergence of such environments. I think that the PST is doing a good job in terms of Muslim extremism, and it is important that they continue to hold pressure on the other forms of extremism that we also see grow in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e503	I would like to thank you for the statement, which I thought was both good and reflected. SV shares the rest of the Storting's strong commitment to contributing to stability and peace in the region, through both the absolutely necessary fight against ISIL and the absolutely necessary long-term build-up of stability and peace in Syria, but I will add to the neighbouring country Iraq. Norway submitted in a number of important ways, which the Prime Minister was widely in, but in a short article I will also focus on three fields where I think we can make more or make more wise choices. Firstly, we should strengthen the work of peace and reconciliation through better contact with Syrian civil society. There is no clear and united opposition in Syria today. Many organisations are poorly organised and controlled or dependent on support from local military groups with very different motives. It is not the whole image, though. There is an active civil society that we can work with, although it is often risky. An example is several hundred local government that has been formed in Syria in the last few years. Several reports have pointed to them as contributing to the reduction of chaos from the war and providing important help and support to the population. In addition, there are a number of opposition groups that are against both Assad and ISIL. It may be tempting to break up with many because there are no single organisations that represent wide enough, but it would be a mistake. Increased contact with Syrian civil society will be important in order to ensure possible anchoring of peace agreements, but also in order to ensure that we have a good contact network with those environments when a reconciliation process is to begin after the battles have ended. Secondly, our military contribution to Jordan. The concrete strategy of Norway to train militia groups has been tried before with limited success. The United States trained Mujahedin in Afghanistan in the 1980s with great effect in the short term and enormous problems in the long term. The U.S. trained moderate rebels in Syria in 2013 and 2014, but still with only a dozen soldiers who actually fought against IS, discontinued the program and later admitted that it was a failure. It is difficult to understand why a similar strategy should lead to peace now. It's still unclear which groups we're actually training and what they stand for, and not least to what extent they'll be part of a long-term peace solution over time. There is also discussion of the basis of international law for that part of the operation which is about operating inside Syrian territory. Several researchers have pointed out that the war against ISIL, as it is being waged today, will not necessarily bring a lasting solution to Iraq or Syria. We risk winning the war, but lose the peace. In my view, it is also difficult to see that the military contribution is the best or most decisive we could give to both the fight against ISIL and the long-term stabilisation of the region. Therefore, SV is still opposed to that participation. Thirdly, we can step up our efforts towards the humanitarian situation further. Norway is making a very important and great humanitarian effort in Syria and in the region today, and I will praise it. However, it is possible to do more, mainly because the needs are enormous. UNHCR and other relief organisations are underfunded and screaming for money both in Syria and in neighbouring countries. Everything suggests that the serious situation will persist over time, and the neighbouring countries to Syria are overburdened by refugees. During the last year, the Foreign Affairs Committee has visited both Northern Iraq and the neighbouring country of Syria, Jordan. In Northern Iraq, we encountered a situation of more than 3 million internally displaced persons in the neighbouring country of Syria, Jordan, a similar situation with almost 1 million refugees – both places with high funding needs. Finally, contributing to lasting peace and contributing to the refugee crisis in Syria brings moral responsibility, but is also a fundamental European self-interest. Nowhere do we meet our interests and values as clearly as in the Middle East, now represented by Syria. In the years to come, the United States may probably take less responsibility in the Middle East. Europe must be prepared to take more. There is a complicated conflict without simple solutions, but we have to take more responsibility and no less responsibility in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e522	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good and reflected presentation. The Greens support Norway’s participation in the coalition in the fight against ISIL and Norway’s five tracks. The fight against ISIL is obviously a civilisation struggle, and the behaviour of ISIL – the outrageous and horrendous acts of that grouping – is totally unacceptable and must be repressed. That is why the Greens have supported Norwegian instructors in Iraq in accordance with international law, but we have not supported participation in Jordan, for the reason we have stated earlier, namely that we are afraid that the basis of international law is too weak, that Norwegian forces can be directly involved in conflict in Syria, and that there is too little certainty as to the extent to which we risk meeting the forces we train, in later conflicts on the opposite side of the battlefield. However, we stress that of course we have confidence and very much acknowledge the quality of the Norwegian teams, and the job they do on behalf of the government. ISIL must be fought down – and must be fought by local forces. We must support that. But as many have pointed out, the fight against ISIL cannot only be won on the battlefield. Combating ISIL is primarily a matter of providing people in the region with sufficient security and hope to build a peaceful civil future in a society in which human rights and democracy are ensured for both majority and minority groups. Therefore, it is particularly important that Norway focuses more on supporting not least those groups that are already maintaining civil order and local democracy at this moment and providing electricity and water in many areas of Syria and Iraq. It is these groups that lay the foundation for democracy and the future in Syria on their own, and it is absolutely vital that those groups receive the support that enables them to build on this work. That is why the Greens are pleased that the government will redeploy funds that have been left behind after lower refugee expenditure in 2016 for humanitarian purposes. We hope that the Prime Minister in his final statement can confirm that these funds will be added to the funds already committed to the State budget in 2017. It is the kind of effort that is most important to contribute to long-term peace in the Middle East and to the fight against ISIL. So it's important to remind us, now that we have a debate about ISIL, that if ISIL is an extreme threat and if ISIL scares us, not least us in the West because they've taken their war to our capitals, it's not ISIL that kills most people in Syria, and it's not ISIL that's the greatest threat to Syria's future. That's what Assad is, it's the Iranian forces that are, and it's the Russian bomb that is. They are a far greater threat to the future in this area than ISIL is, without reducing the importance of the fight against ISIL. I would appreciate to hear the Prime Minister's reflections on Norway's position in an extremely complex image, where regional powers use Syria's battlefield as an arena to gain positions at the expense of the Syrian people. It's pretty clear that Syria has no future with Assad, and a too one-sided focus on ISIL's assault makes us risk getting into the wrong position with these other powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e538	Let me first thank you for the comments given to the presentation. I feel a broad support for the strategy chosen by the government, both for humanitarian and military participation. That support, I think, is important, not least for the many people who do the job in the field. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank both those who make it in uniform on behalf of the Norwegian military, and the many humanitarian aid workers who are far inside Syria and who contribute, in dangerous situations, to making everyday life in a war situation better for people. Some questions have been raised. The first is who we train. We're currently training two places. We're training Kurdish peshmerga operating as part of Iraqi security forces. They're part of that force, and it's not like some people have suggested before, that we're training militias in Iraq. This is part of the security forces. In Syria, on the Jordan, Syria and Iraq border, we train local Sunni Arab groupings belonging to the areas to be released from ISIL. It is a comprehensive selection system where background checks, monitoring of motivation, yes, including what has been said before, use of lie detectors, but it is considerably more than that. It's a small part of the whole thing that's done to look at the motivation. In addition, when we have our own soldiers present who connect with the groups that we train and support, they will get even more information about the groups. In addition, we do the information gathering ourselves and together with the allies. But as I said in my presentation, we can never give complete guarantees, when we train that kind of group, for what they'll do later on. It is very important for me to stress that what we are doing in the military in the region is linked to the fight against ISIL – not to the civil war in Syria, but to the fight against ISIL, and that is to ensure that ISIL continues to fight back. It is true that there is a major and difficult conflict in Syria, but ISIL has been allowed to grow without the parties to the civil war in Syria having really had an address against ISIL. For some, it may also have been convenient that others have grown. That's why it's important to get a hold of it now. The action that the United Nations has shown in trying to do at an early stage in Syria has also contributed to the development of ISIL, not least because it has been a motive for many foreign fighters from European countries that, when the world community does not help, they will help and help. It is true that we have many things to learn from the Afghanistan evaluation. I also believe that the perfect situation will always be that we have a plan for solution and an exit strategy. But that's not always the way the world is. It's full of dilemmas, and creating peace must always come from within. No one from the outside is able to create lasting peace, it must be done by the parties internally. But before you get to that point, of course, it's so that de facto territorial control from some groups makes it impossible to achieve a peace solution. That's also why when ISIL has so much territorial control and poses such a big threat, with all the attacks, we have to do something to bring them back. As I said, peace is built from below, but the actual possibilities of starting that construction process mean that sometimes you have to engage. I have great respect for the fact that Norway is not going to participate militarily in such conflicts, but it will not mean any improvement for the people of Syria or Iraq that we are not going to do so. Territorial control is also essential for the eventual establishment of a basis for peace and stabilisation. Then you could say you have to be impartial afterwards. I'm not impartial. I'm very partial. I am biased on behalf of international law, on behalf of human rights, on behalf of humanitarian law, on behalf of the right of peoples to make their own decisions. That's our value base, and we also have to bring that with us. The basis of value is not to be relative to assault on women, children or to beheading people without law and judgment or fundamental principles of law. There must always be Norwegian bias in any conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e557	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on Norway’s contribution to the fight against ISIL be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e575	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three replies to the main speakers of the parties and six replies to the members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e588	When I woke up to the election of the new president in the United States on Wednesday, I was relieved that we were able to agree on a long-term plan for the Defense Tuesday afternoon. While many countries in Europe and the United States are characterised by deep political divisions, we are able to agree on the important issues here in Norway. But regardless of the presidential election, it has been a demand from our most important allies that we have to pay more of the bill and our own defenses ourselves, and Norway is not in such a bad position. We pay next most per capita in NATO, after the United States. Only the U.S. spends more on defense per capita. The other NATO countries come a while later. The debate earlier today shows the need for us to take on increased international responsibility for security. Strengthening and supporting the disintegration of security forces in countries is likely to be more important in the future. At the same time, we have to make sure to defend our major territories in the north, where the vast majority of things are seas. The time we now have requires more – not less – cooperation with our allies, in the north, but also in areas characterized by terror and state resolution. After World War II, it became clear that we were unable to defend ourselves alone, that the defence of our large seas requires cooperation, and that we can contribute to security outside our own country. That's the way it is now. We need to build up our defenses in close cooperation with our allies. A small country such as Norway must defend international law and we must contribute to dialogue. That is why there is no contradiction between our line of peace and reconciliation and our desire for a stronger defence. In many crisis and conflict areas, we are contributing both with humanitarian efforts and with security, as we are doing in the Middle East today. While we have strengthened our defence, other countries have built it up in recent years. So we've gone from being a small to a medium-sized state in NATO context. In addition to increasing our budgets, we have modernised our defence since 2000. We've made a lot of unpopular decisions about bases, but at the same time we have the power to invest in new material. We built our defense after the war on technology and on modern material. To me it is incomprehensible to rock by this basic idea today. Technological superiority was, is and becomes a prerequisite for a good defense in the future. The long-term plan of defence usually creates a lot of battle. In the 1990s, these disputes were resolved by the fact that the vast majority of bases were saved, but when the money did not arrive, the entire defence became confused. The arrangement we have today is not perfect. The rapporteurs and defence officials throughout the country have strongly warned against some of the changes we are making. But changes need to be made. If the structure is not sustainable, our entire ability to defend ourselves is affected. I have had good cooperation with the Government Parties and the Minister of Defence in this matter. Although there is broad consensus in defence policy, there is rarely agreement on the long-term plan between the Right and the Labour Party. This has happened only once before, when Marit Nybakk was the head of the defense committee and Jens Stoltenberg was the opposition leader. And I know that very many of the changes that have been made have the support of all the parties here in this room. However, it was not possible to land a consensus around the whole scheme. It was not a simple arrangement the government delivered on the same day that the Storting broke up in June. It was too late to deal with the plan before the state budget was presented. In addition, investments in land power were put on hold. I agree that we need an assessment of our ability to defend ourselves quickly on land, but after three years of investigations, such an assessment should have been submitted to the Stortinget together with investments in sea and air. In this way, we could not see these three lines of defence well enough in the context. I therefore understand the parties that are currently investing in the country power. In the Workers' Party, however, we chose to enter into an agreement with the government parties, where together we make a concrete arrangement for the insertion of investments in army and home security: in the state budget for next year, within the financial framework laid down by the long-term plan. In addition, we were given the advantage that investments in combat air protection can start before, and a large increase in the budget for army and home protection, especially in the north. For us, it was essential that if we are to increase our defence budgets in the years to come, we must start now. We managed to increase the budget for 2017 somewhat and hope it can make it easier to achieve the goal in the four-year period. We keep the Coast Guards, because we need well-trained forces that can react quickly. We need them in the north and we like to see them in an organization model with the special forces. We found a solution for the helicopters. They are needed to support the special forces and exercise tactically. But it is wrong, in my opinion, to ask the Army to investigate its ability to be fast and mobile and at the same time remove all the helicopters in the north. Therefore, the rescue operation shall assess whether the nine helicopters currently on Bardufoss, or other helicopters, are necessary to maintain the Army’s mobility. I believe the Army needs helicopter support in the north. Andøya Air Station has been the most difficult decision. I am convinced that a power collection of both fighter and surveillance aircraft on Evenes is necessary. Now it is the task of the great community to set up for Andy Island, which is hard hit by this decision. But that we need new surveillance planes, which keep an overview of Norwegian waters, I am convinced of. Together with new submarines and combat aircraft, these investments are crucial for future defence. The corps are kept, but 40 pst. the bill is payable by the Ministry of Culture. In addition, we are repealing decisions on the privatisation of the workshop in Horten. But in the area of privatisation, we didn't get that far with the government. Here we decided early not to write together. An uncertainty in the plan is whether the efficiency gains made can be achieved. If they do not, it is not possible to achieve all the objectives of this long-term plan, as the head of defence also points out. And the camp at Setnesmoen is to be considered as part of the mercenary. And then we can see the whole structure of Homeland Protection in the context. The most important thing for us this time was to put in more money, so that the Home Security can get better equipment and practice more. I believe this plan improved after the bulk treatment, but I notice that none of the parties, except SV, will reduce the number of fighter planes. That gives SV more money for other things. All of the other parties have the same ambitions as the majority, but will only push at the phase-in of part of the expenditure. In addition, they will retain a more expensive structure. So more money costs it anyway. That is why it is vital that we achieve the objectives of this plan, that all parties increase the defence budgets in the coming years. High ambitions in a long-term plan without funding are a very poor solution to Norwegian defence capabilities. We have to stick together about a stepping up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e633	Now the Workers' Party has agreed with the government, so I'm not going to be so hard on Anniken Huitfeldt this time. But in the post, Huitfeldt said that the Workers' Party was opposed to privatisation and competitive outsourcing of services. That's interesting. The defense has used this for a long time, and among other things. logistical cooperation has been established with Wilhelmsen. Is it so that Huitfeldt's representative is also against this, or are there just some things you're against when it fits the party?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e638	The Labour Party is opposed to ideological privatisation – i.e. privatisation that does not provide a better defence. I think the agreement with Wilhelmsen is good. A very poor example of privatisation is what you have done in terms of clean-up, where you really only deprive the employees of pension rights, and then it doesn't get any cheaper. There was recently a case in a newspaper that Securitas had to follow some cleaning workers around to ensure safety. Here I believe that this government is going too far – not just in the field of defence, but in a lot of areas. Privatisation will in many cases increase expenditure. However, I am pleased that we were able to agree on the workshop in Horten. Then we'll look at other solutions for the future, but I'm not a member of the line that the Minister of Defence is running today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e645	There are three parties that have come to complete agreement, but many of the other parties are united in large parts of the plan, so there is quite a lot of agreement in total – in addition to the three parties. I want to thank the case spokesperson for the job she has done. The representative Huitfeldt said in his post that we should not be afraid of changes. I totally agree with that. One of the areas in which the three major parties have been identified is the education system. The head of defense said here, after the government presented proposals to change the education reform: ‘My recommendation was to wait for structural changes [[...]] He also says: ‘The Government, however, recommends a comprehensive conversion of the education system without the existence and apparent absence of experience of new military arrangements without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the solution.’;» Then my question to Huitfeldt's representative is: is it wise to make that kind of change when the head of defense says that the consequences of the solutions have not even been carefully evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e662	Yes, I think it's right to take the initiative, as the Ministry of Defence has done, to change the education system, so that we can see the different schools more closely in a context and make sure that the different sectors of defence and education within them are seen more closely in a context. What I'm a little more uncertain about is whether all the efficiency potential that was put in is going to work. We have an education today that is very precious. On the other hand, it gives a very good follow-up to the individual employees who receive training. If we meet all the requirements, I am not quite sure, but that there is a need for reform, and that today the defence must see the different defence sectors in a context, I believe it is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e669	The plural solution to new surveillance aircraft was not within the defense chief's recommendation. It's also true that the phase-out of Orion, which is now up-to-date, the last one should be taken over in a short time, has cost quite a lot of money, and new flights will in any case not be phased in until a few years. So my question is, why is it so urgent to shut down the Andeya Air Station? And why is it so urgent to get on surveillance planes? I have had contact with many from local media who claim that the Labour Party has received new information. Well, we're pretty much sitting in the same meeting, but maybe not all of them. Is it true that the Labour Party has received information other than that of the other parties in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e676	I believe that if we are to have good control of our marine areas, which is a very important capacity in NATO, we need surveillance aircraft. I also know that the representative of Navarsete has been made aware of what the head of defence thinks about this, that this is an important capacity for Norway. Now, when we're going to introduce new planes, I think there's going to be full security around these planes. That's why I think it's right to have a power collection of fighter planes and surveillance planes on Evenes. I do not know all the information that the representative Navarsete has received, but I am at least convinced that when we invest in such a costly capacity, we need to look at the security around them, and that it is 100 pst. trustworthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e686	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e691	Let me begin by commending the Minister of Defence for the openness that has shaped the long-term plan, and for the solid basis that was given us in the committee. Strengthening the operational elements of the Defence have been central. There have been tough, but necessary and strategic choices. Then I would like to thank colleagues who saw the importance of the future of defence in a new era, and who made sure that we came to an agreement in the Stortinget. I would particularly like to thank the committee leader and the case-rapporteur, Mr Huitfeldt, for a constructive tone that led to a broad and sustainable consensus between the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party. The parliamentary leaders finally lost the plan in the port, despite individual cuts in the sea – one must say. The backbone for the treatment of this long-term plan is serious and underlines that the security policy situation we are now seeing needs to shape the defence in the future. War and terror originating in the Middle East, especially in Iraq and Syria, have created increased uncertainty. An increase in the number of episodes in the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea region has caused greater concern to our neighbouring countries in the east. Today's unforeseeable security policy landscape requires strong and credible national defence, in combination with close alliance cooperation. We need to increase operational capacity, and we need to build credible preventive capacities. For Norway, as one of the founders of NATO, the security guarantee has been strong. In order to ensure our own safety, we need to invest more in our own safety and ensure increased burden-sharing. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence has been among the foremost figures for such a development. Norway is NATO in the north. It obliges us to contribute to monitoring, deterrence and presence in our waters. The primary function of NATO, namely to maintain peace and security on its territory and on the territory of the alliance, has been central to the majority behind the position. Investments in four new submarines, further bets on fighter aircraft and the phase-in of new maritime surveillance aircraft are investments that are required in the alliance, but they are primarily necessary given our geographical location. Threats far beyond our borders can also have consequences for our security. Therefore, contributions to international operations in many conflict areas ensure our security. Our soldiers are valued and praised for their willingness to sacrifice and attitudes. We have good reason to be proud of our forces out there. When some people in the domestic debate want to weaken our international contributions, I think it is appropriate to say that this effort is also our first line defense. Today, we are adopting a completely necessary stepping up of the defence budgets, which will start already next year and continue over the next four-year period. A historic strengthening is recommended. The defence framework shall be raised to a level of 7.2 billion by 2020. kr above the current level, covering an additional need of approximately 165 billion over the next 20 years. kr. The long-term plan is based on a thorough review of the needs to increase operational budgets and staffing. The defence budgets have not been in balance between defence tasks, structure and economy in the last decades. I think we all have to take over. A maintenance seat towing, a lack of spare parts and ammunition of more than 2 billion has been detected. kr. Increased appropriations shall improve the preparedness and stamina of all defence sectors. Without building this ‘ground wall’, there is little use in investing in and phasing in new capacities. Manning increases, maintenance and acquisitions of spare parts are required, logistics is strengthened and the level of activity and presence in priority areas is speeding up. Price and cost growth is higher in the defence sector than in other sectors. Therefore, the long-term plan takes into account the increase in defence-specific costs. In order to achieve efficiency, the defence has been in transition for a long time, and this process continues in the long-term plan. It is cut in stabs and support functions, it streamlines logistics and transfers more funds to the pointed end. We take the defense out of the office and out in the field. That's how we achieve increased operational capability. Today’s base structure is vulnerable and difficult to protect. Therefore, fewer bases with better protection are added. Of course, this has led to a debate on localisation, and I understand very well the frustration it has led to locally. Here I will particularly pull out Andeya and move the base of maritime patrol planes to Evenes, where the fighter planes will also have their base. It was not an easy decision, but necessary for operational and economic reasons. The Ministry and the Committee have made representations that will help the Andey community after the cessation of operational operations. Provision is made for the freeing of areas for the municipality and the possibility of alternative value-creating activities in the facilities. The Committee setting provides for the maintenance of Andøya Airport after 2020 with a runway length allowing Andøya Test Center to continue its operation, as well as opportunities for the development of Andøya Test Center and Andøya Space Center operations. An exciting drone location is also mentioned as an option in the setting. In the Maritime Defense Department, the acquisition of new submarines is central. This capacity helps to secure our and NATO's maritime flanks in the north. The long-term plan also accelerates the acquisition of three new helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels, and with a new logistics vessel, we will increase the stamina of coastal operations. Collecting the 334 square at Haakonsvern will facilitate a more efficient exercise and training with the frigates. When the majority of the committee wanted to maintain the Coast Guard Command and the Tactical Vessel Quadron, it was with the background of the important maritime combat force they represent. In the long term, they should probably interact with the special forces, as the majority of the Committee calls on the Ministry to look at them so that their capacity and competences are used as efficiently as possible and as efficiently as possible. The long-term plan provides for a further strengthening of the Army and the Home Office. During the period 2017-2020, the government has abolished about 5 to 6 billion. for the implementation of investments. For the period 2019–2028, the calculation basis decommissions approximately 25 billion. kr for additional investment in the Army. In order to ensure that the correct investments are made, the land-use study is now under way. The aim is to take all perspectives; new technologies and requirements for mobility and impact, which will provide land power with the capacity required for future challenges. Already this year, it's under arrest. Preparedness and availability are strengthened, the Home Guard in the northern states is given more funds, the Armor Battalion in Inner Troms gets more practice days, and the Garrison in South Varanger gets a new hunting company. Bell 412 helicopters shall in the future be prioritised for the special forces and moved from Bardufoss to Rygge, but only when alternative helicopter capacity is in place. It will now be up to the Land Powers Study to assess the Army’s need for lifting capacity. Pending the Land Powers Study, we set aside money for new investments in the Army. Defence is strengthened to increase fighting power. There will be increased activity and presence, with emphasis on North Norway. The defense of the sea shall sail more; the defence of the air shall fly more; the army and the shelter shall practise and train more. This means that large parts of the Defense will be available and ready for action on short notice. The choice we actually faced at the beginning of the work on the long-term plan was either to wait for yesterday's defence structure or to increase our defence capability through a new structure. There must be no doubt that we are today taking into account the defence needs when we start the reverse operation with this setting and rebuild the country's defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e744	I am pleased that the agreement on the long-term plan maintains the Coast Guard Command and the Tactical Boat Quadron, and that the government's proposal to drop the Coast Guard Command is not supported. Given both foreign operations and rapid reaction, the Coast Guard Command is a capacity we need. The majority say in the setting that the Coast Guard Command should be continued and that closer links should be considered with other departments, such as the Special Forces. It is a solution that both the Coast Guard Command and the Marine Hunter Command themselves have wanted. The question to the Right as a government party is: How will the Right follow up this decision and ensure that the Coast Guard Command is also assessed in a model with the special forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e753	It is true that this was proposed and can be seen in the argumentaries for it, mainly for economic reasons. I am therefore very pleased that we have found the economy to continue it, and it seems as if the whole Storting agrees. With regard to the continuation, the majority have also facilitated the return of the government, the Minister of Defence and the Ministry with an assessment related to the continuation and possible co-location and co-organisation mentioned by the representative here. I think that's opening enough in the comments that the majority have made, that we get a thorough assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e760	The most important germ of ours has probably been the postponement of investment decisions for a decisive part of the Defence — the Land Authority — to next year. It's created an insecurity. My question to the representative Halleraker is: When we know that there is a risk of overshooting on the fighter aircraft program – case spokesman Huitfeldt also said that we can see that the efficiency potential and the benefits are less than foreseen and that it will limit the scope for precisely investing in the Army, an army that also needs new material – is it a concern that Halleraker's representative shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e768	It is true that the three major strategic capacities that we agreed to implement relatively early in the negotiations – not least because there are quite large commitments related to the F-35 purchase, but also because the F-35 often disappears a little in the debate – represent something completely new in the Norwegian defence. It's not a continuation of a fighter plane like F-16. It is a completely new capacity that must take care of completely different aspects of the security of our country. That's why it's important to keep going. It is clear that there will always be some uncertainty about investments that are well ahead of time. I have not seen that others have provided alternative funding for the needs of the Army, but I see that the government has set aside 25 billion. kr in the next 20-year perspective – in addition to 5-6 billion. NOK for the next four-year period, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e773	In the previous long-term plan, the Right would not reconcile with the red-green government because one thought that the land power was too weakly described, that a required three armored battalions, and one would bet on the Homeland Protection to get a massive strengthening of the land power. Last year, the government presented a proposal in the investment proposition, which mentions just investment in the Army as essential in order not to get a reckless defense. Well for this year's budget, 2016, wrote that one was in the process of investing that has been waiting for this period for the Army. What has happened in the last year, which has made all that one meant a year ago – and also four years ago – now has changed so dramatically?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e778	We still believe that the Army is essential, in order to use the representative's own expression, and we show that we're already adding 7 billion next year. kr to army and home security. Never has army and home security received so much money in one year – never before. What we see is that the world around us is changing at such a pace that the military must also be looked at more closely. The government had not come this far when the plan had to be presented. I think it is quite important to be aware that what has happened since the last long-term plan was presented is almost a revolution in the world's security policy situation, in Europe and in Norway. We have to take that over, all of us. Therefore, we must be firm in investment in the strategic, deterrent capacities – which our alliance expects of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e788	Let me also first of all thank the case rapporteur for his good progress in a complex matter and at a difficult time, and for the clear conditions for moving forward. This meant that we did not get too much banging with doors and got a good drive forward. Let me begin by pointing out that some of the reasons why different batches focus on different capacities depend on different security policy considerations. If the Norwegian defence is to be everything for everyone, account must be taken of: defence of their own country, both for deterrence and in the possible fight against a potential enemy; Military preparedness in North Norway, border with Russia military preparedness on our long-range coast military preparedness in the northern regions Military defence of NATO's 28 member countries focus on national border defence in the south, preferably in cooperation with the police cooperation with the Nordic countries; international operations Cyberrusts and cyberattacks If the Norwegian defence is prepared for all of this, you might as well double the defence budget immediately. That is why it must be a priority. On the same day that the majority of the Storting reached agreement on the long-term plan of defence, Donald Trump was elected president of the United States, the country that is our leading partner in NATO and beyond. What does that mean for our defense? What will that mean for the conciliation we are debating and the long-term plan we are adopting today? Would this be out of date before it gets implemented at all? Does the United States choose to become more active in conflicts outside the world, or will it become more introverted? Different signals have been received. IS shall be controlled by all means in cooperation and understanding with Russia. But we have also heard that the Allies of the United States will have to finance more of their own defence in order for the NATO security guarantee to apply. At the same time, there is little appetite in the United States for new military adventures. All have failed so far, whether in the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan or in Iraq, Libya and Syria. Dictators have been removed, but have been replaced by chaos and ethnic conflicts and Islamic extremism. It's become more unstable, not less. Furthermore, human costs have been high and costs high. Norway has participated in these processes, justified by Article 5 or a contested UN resolution. The question is, of course, whether Norwegian contributions and Norwegian efforts in the same conflicts are escalated into a possible decision on a reduction in American involvement, which the Prime Minister also discussed. In the Progress Party, there is an increasing scepticism about Norway's participation in various conflicts outside NATO's territory, and yesterday, in the NRK, we were presented with a claim that those we are fighting against IS may also commit an assault. Regardless of that, our special forces deserve all credit for the efforts they have made and made. They are capable, sought after, and a model for soldiers in many countries. They are also an important capacity for support for counter-terrorism, crisis management and hostage-rescue, as the Committee specifies in its position. The increased operational capability of the special forces through the establishment of a dedicated helicopter capacity at the Air Force on Back will reduce response time in the context of national missions. That the Coast Guard command is maintained and will be more closely linked to the Special Forces will, in total, strengthen Norwegian fighting force significantly. CJK is a department with high competence and high availability. This is important when the alert time is short. CJK has simultaneous capacity to carry out boarding operations in situations that do not require the use of special forces. Such capacity enables the marine defence vessel to be used in several types of missions, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, a continuation of the Coast Guard Command is positive and necessary. The new defence must give the most strength to fight, but at the same time it must be sustainable. It means changes, some more extensive than others. Local communities are affected, workplaces disappear, and daily life for more people will turn their heads. The most extensive change will be the closure of the air station on Andøya. It hurts the affected, and I understand that they are disappointed today. However, the closure does not mean that Andøya is left to itself. Andøya will experience that the government is setting up to minimise the pain of loss of jobs. Andøya Test Center will be able to be maintained. It will also be considered to form a national centre of excellence for drones. Furthermore, Andøya Airport must be secured so that larger aeroplanes can land. It's positive. Hybrid warfare is increasing. Cyberrusts and cyberattacks are not science fiction but reality which can pose a real danger to critical infrastructure and stability. It is therefore important that this work be coordinated at all levels. Not least this is important for the Defence, where several systems are integrated with NATO systems. The government's ambition to restructure and modernise this work and to consolidate ICT activities at Jørstadmoen is therefore positive. Here, cooperation between the police and the National Security Authority will make the centre a central player in cyber operations and cyberattacks. Norway needs to be protected and information in the field needs to be shared. Home security is important for the defence of the country, but it is also important as a glue that binds the parts of the country together, creates identity and community. In the past, the initial service was such a tool. Today, it's Homeland Protection that plays such a role. The Land Powers study will assess whether technological and conceptual developments will have long-term consequences for the rural forces of the future. Fighting strength, mobility, stamina and responsiveness are important factors. It's positive. The Progress Party is pleased that the majority has put leadership and prerequisites on how to include Home Protection in the study. It involves strengthening district staff in Troms and Finnmark through the provision of additional personnel. Furthermore, the distribution and composition of the Army will be looked at between the personnel employed and those responsible for protection and the modernisation of the property in the country power, including the future need for helicopter capacity. Furthermore, ear-labelled substances will be used to strengthen the rod in HV-16 and HV-17. The majority agree that the defence of Norway and our contribution to NATO's collective defence will be built around three key strategic capacities: submarines, maritime surveillance aircraft and F-35 fighter aircraft, including air protection. Furthermore, modern CV90 tanks are currently being introduced to the Army, while the acquisition of fighting air protection to the Army is being carried out as quickly as possible. These systems will provide us with flexibility, response, fighting strength and protection. The Land Powers Study will clarify the structure of the Army and the capabilities that will be required, both from a national and an alliance perspective. The national meeting of the Party shall be the highest body of the Party and, at its national meeting in May, the Party adopted the following four items: The defence appropriations shall be increased to 2 pst of GDP by 2024, in line with the objective of NATO adopted in Wales in 2014. The defence appropriations shall at least be in line with the Chief of Defence's professional military council, 185 bn. kr during the period. The presence in the north shall be strengthened in relation to the current situation. A 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr. Today’s settlement means that the Progress Party has either had or has proposed three of these points. The party's progress is related to its party program and its own pool when we negotiate with other parties. With us, the big group is the sovereign. We have also used the same strategy in the negotiations on LTP, the long-term plan. The agreement means that the presence in the north will be strengthened in line with the decision of the National Assembly of the Progress Party. Furthermore, maintaining the Coastal Cheeral Command was the highest priority of the Great Lakes Group. We are also pleased that the negotiations led to the strengthening of the Heimevertet, and that the focus on North Norway will be strengthened. It is a prerequisite for the land traffic management, which is presented in the spring of 2017. The creation of a fund was promoted on the first day of the negotiations and would provide an annual return of 3-4 pst. if the expected return on the State pension fund is taken into account abroad. Overall, this could be given approx. 35 B.C.E. kr in addition to today's settlements during the period. Such a fund would be based on the principles of the government’s already established infrastructure funds in the transport sector, which are also 100 billion. kr. The overall objective of the Fund is sustainable and predictable infrastructure financing. For the time being, all parties have been interested in such a proposal, but it is to be hoped that this will be resounding if future investment needs so require. It will also provide a lot of money for the operation of the defense. Finally, it is important to point out that a long-term plan has an ambition to see 20 years into the future. This makes sense in the context of the long lead-hour of acquisition. At the same time, however, it is reasonably certain that there will be agreement today, not status 20 years ahead. The future is impossible to predict, but at the same time, we know that our environment and political realities are constantly changing, and that what is perceived as a wise and correct decision in 2016 will not necessarily be perceived in the same way in 2035. If the defence is relevant, it must focus on fighting force and sustainability, as the long-term plan states. All in all, however, it must not be forgotten that the defence also provides significant revenue to the public budgets through its presence and not least through the active role of industry. Let's not forget that for every penny Norway spends on the acquisition of defence equipment, the Norwegian defence industry sells 99 cents. The obligation to protect is also a positive contribution to society. The duty of protection makes Norwegian youth aware that the defence of the country does not come by itself, and that there is no army of NATO soldiers who disembark from a cabinet and come awry to save our country. Awareness of the importance of the Defence, the duty to contribute and the cohesion it creates, means that far more should be in the first place. The defence can serve as a tool for identity building and national feeling, preventing isolation, division and segregation. The election of the new American President on the same day as the settlement was made shows potentially how quickly the prerequisites for our fighting power and sustainability can change. But it remains to be seen. Regardless of events we don't have control of, the long-term plan we're adopting today is a historic promise for the Defense. Investments are followed up, maintenance is lifted, and activity is increased. Important compromises have helped to further strengthen the Armed Forces' fighting force. The Progress Party will today vote against all the proposals that we are not part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e889	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e894	Without the Workers' Party's support, I think a few of the National Governing Council decisions of the Advance Party had been adopted in connection with this plan. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. NATO's 2 pst. targets have been further updated following the US presidential election. Europe must take greater responsibility, is the message of the new President. The party of progress has been very clear that the decision to grant the defence should be up to 2 pst. of GDP, as the representative was also involved in his contribution. I record that this plan will not bring us any closer – rather, on the contrary, many claim, and I further record that there are few organisations that are satisfied with the framework during the planning period. My question is: is the Progress Party satisfied with the success of its own Finance Minister and in its own government in terms of more money during the planning period and not least in achieving the 2pst target?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e901	I thank the Labour Party for supporting the long-term plan, for strengthening the long-term plan in addition to what was there. I think we should be honest with that. We're happy about that. So it's like 2 pst. depends on GDP – Greece has now reached the target of 2 pst. of GDP almost halved, if not more, their own national product. So that's also one way to do it -- we hope we don't get there. 2 pst. In Norway, there is much more to it than in other countries, i.e. in crowns and ears. If you went up to 2 pst, you would have to increase by 17 billion. kr. It is totally unrealistic today that we should increase the defence budget by 17 billion. kr. But it is not said that it should not be a goal in the long term, and it is also something to which all the countries of NATO have joined. So the Progress Party has proposed, which we would like to have supported from the Workers' Party, an investment fund for defence acquisitions, which would give 3.5 billion dollars. kr more to the Defense than what is there today. I hope that in the future, the Workers' Party will see it as an opportunity that will not burden the State budget altogether.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e908	I was a little unsure if I would take a line – it has our posts the representative Tybring-Gjedde has held that I have been significantly more disagreeable than this. But one of the things the representative picks up is Homeland. The representative uses the word ‘lime’ — the Home Office binds the country together. Now we've got a solution on Setnesmoen, HV-11 is secure, and my question, when one is concerned that Home Protection is a glue and binds the country together, is: What is the Progress Party's thinking about this exactly in a slightly longer perspective than what we have secured through the 2017 budget agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e913	Hareide is always a bit of fun on the pulpit. It is clear that HV is important for the country as a whole, and it has been that we have had challenges in manning with the desired number of HV soldiers, and we have also taken that on board. We'd like to run an active campaign to get more people into HV, and I think it's good that you have an awareness of what the Defense actually is. The Progress Party wants to get more people into the duty of protection, i.e. first-time service, a mandatory service that allows you to get the glue that is important to society – what can bind together, also in an integration perspective, which I believe Hareide is also concerned about. I think that this meeting and meeting together on common challenges, getting fucked by the same command, has to brush their shoes, tie their zips and re-establish their beds, can be a good contribution to making a society stay together – in a community and in trust between people. So I think the first-time service is even better than Home Security, but Home Security is also a good contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e918	A lot of the debate about the long-term plan now has been about the Army. I think there are two reasons for that – or there might be more. But at least the attention has to be paid to the fact that we have to have the full scope of different tasks, have been larger, while many of the large investments have been in other areas, and some of the decisions have been proposed to move forward in time through a country power study in the case of the Army. For the Progress Party, this must be a little special, because in the previous period, they refused to join the conciliation. because there were too few permits to land, and suggested large increases to the Army. Now — both in the budget for last year and in the budget for this year — it is that, in the context of the final decision in the Stortinget, the Progress Party proposes less to the Army than SV does, even in the arrangement they now have. Since the Progress Party's group is sovereign, according to Tybring-Gjedde, this is willful. So my question is, what will the Advance Party do to reach its level when it comes to the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e923	It's interesting that we're behind SV on the army side. I don't know how it was in previous years – then maybe SV wasn't as active as they are now, in opposition. But that is what political life is now, and I would like to admit that when we are going to make compromises, we have to make compromises. Now we had a priority list in our big group where the Coast Guard Command was at the top, for which we wanted to fight to keep, and we got that through, but there are also other priorities for which we have had partial impact. But this is the case, we cannot count on the large-scale group going beyond a long-term plan which has been drawn up over two years and which is also based on the Trade Union Military Council. It will be totally unrealistic. But I can probably say that the first priority for the Advancement Party would have been to strengthen the Army further. We would like to strengthen the defence further too, but these are the realities we have to deal with within a framework that could have been strengthened if SV had supported our proposal for a fund that would give more money to the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e928	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e934	I would also like to thank the case spokesman and the committee for the work that has been done, and to honour the case spokesman, I would like to start with a quote from her former party leader and current secretary-general in NATO, Jens Stoltenberg. He gave a warning to the entropy president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, that at all is not an option, either for Europe or for the United States. I agree with the head of NATO. It is in our common interest to maintain the Atlantic Alliance. We are, as it's called from Hillary, "stepping together". There is a broad consensus about a lot in the new long-term defence plan. Everyone recognises that the security policy situation has become more worrying. Islamist extremism and terror are a threat. The use of power by Russia vis-à-vis Ukraine is unacceptable. The annexation of Crimea is out of international law. There is broad agreement that the defence must be significantly strengthened financially over the years to come. Norway is among the European countries that have best maintained the defence budget after the Cold War. Now there's a formidable rise. There is also a broad consensus that Norway should have three strategic capacities, on which this long-term plan focuses most: fighter, submarine and maritime surveillance aircraft up to 52 new F-35 fighter aircraft replace the old F-16 aircraft. A new generation of submarines will replace the old ULA class. And maritime surveillance aircraft will give us and NATO an overview of what's happening along the coast of Norway and in a strategically important part of the Atlantic. Where do you stick so indiscriminately? The main source of disunity is that the investment decisions of a decisive, important part of the Defense, the Land Authority, are postponed to next year. It's created insecurity. The Christian People's Party is open to get new surveillance planes, but we will first be sure that the Army can secure money for necessary modernisation. It must not be pushed far into an uncertain future, because then there is a risk that exceedances in the fighter aircraft programme and less efficiency gain than foreseen will delineate the action space. The army needs new material as soon as possible. The autumn of 2017 will be the Landmaktavålinga and the government's proposal for the second part of the long-term plan. Only then will we see if the cure is good. The Chief of Defence recommends that we wait for structural changes in the education system in the Defence for us to have experience in the new military system, and that the consequences are well advanced. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement with the head of defense. We will not adopt a closure of Kjevik on an accelerated basis. The Christian People's Party will also not vote in favour of a decision to shut down Andeya military airstation. There is a question of the economic basis for such a decision. I think the government all this spring has to come back to Stortinget with an up-to-date decision base. In any case, the Christian People's Party will fight to secure the future of the Andey community. We are pleased to have created a majority of the population for some changes in the government's proposal for a long-term plan. The Coast Commander at Harstad is not being laid down, he is being carried on. Not all Bell helicopters will be moved southwards, but there will be a split solution: half of them will southen the Army from Bardufoss, and half will give the Special Forces helicopter support in South Norway from Rygge. And when the landmact thing comes, we'll see if we can secure the Army a much better mobility with even better helicopter coverage in the north. The defense's music center in Horten and Trondheim will not be shut down, all five of today's crews will pass. It is a collective symbol of Defence and an important resource for corps music elsewhere in society. We have also reached agreement between the cooperation parties on the defence budget for 2017. We strengthen the Army, the Home Guard and especially the defense in the north. There is a line we will follow up when the second part of the long-term defence plan is to be dealt with in the autumn of 2017. With that I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e957	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e965	The Christian People's Party, together with other parties, raises doubts about whether the efficiency requirement contained in the plan is realistic but retains a more costly structure. But I can't see that they have proposed to grant more to the Defense in their alternative budget for next year. Nevertheless, it is far from Left's airy economic setup in the setting. Nevertheless, it is spoken of that the centre is united in this matter. The question is: Does the representative Hareide feel that the Christian People's Party is closest to the government parties and the Workers' Party or closest to the Left in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e973	The Christian People's Party is probably close to the Christian People's Party in this matter. So it's like we've seen that the center has been a part of the structure thinking. But I'm also honest about it and I say that we're open to getting new surveillance planes, but before I can say a final yes to it, I have to be sure to be able to show what the land traffic is really going to give us of challenges, and what investment needs will lie in it. I think it has been demanding that we have had a long-term plan that has given us many important leads, but to see the wholeness of the defense here we really won't do until we also get the land tax treatment. That has been a challenge. We're honest that we have to see the health before we take our final decisions about what we're going to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e980	In the negotiations on the long-term plan, it is often the case that the parties are drawn between the consideration of the trade-military councils and, in the interests of regional policy or employment policy, on the other hand. I see it so that the Christian People's Party is a little bit in the gap between these considerations. They support a good part of the proposals – and to a much greater extent than the others in the minority. It deserves the honor of the Christian People's Party. But there are also a number of other proposals, which are somewhat too much influenced by local policy considerations. Some examples have already been mentioned. I want to reiterate the Coast Guard Command, where the majority open up exciting solutions to possible future reorganization and coordination with, for example. The special forces, while the Christian People's Party locks itself to a greater extent to cement both structure, base location, etc. It surprises me a little bit that the Christian People's Party does not want to be part of it. In general, I would like to say that the Storting must give greater room for professional military decisions. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party chooses to bind itself so much, both on base issues and that they don't give more room for the trade union changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e989	It's our job as politicians to see the healing. When it comes to the Coast Guard Command, it's one of the things we've given priority to in the budget negotiations, just in cooperation with the Right. We have the assurance to preserve him. Another example is the education system. In the hall his head of defense, and he has come with very clear professional advice to wait with the education reform. He says: ‘The Government, however, recommends a comprehensive conversion of the education system without the existence and apparent absence of experience of new military arrangements without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the solution.’;» So here it's the Right and the Advance Party that's going to go across professionally-military councils. That freedom they take part in. The Christian People's Party assesses health, but listening to professional military advice has been important to us in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1003	I thought I would follow up Svein Roald Hansen's good question. Christian People's Party is almost Christian People's Party, Christian People's Party is almost Left and Center Party, but Christian People's Party is also almost Right and Advance Party – what about the Green Party? But that was not the question. The Christian People's Party wants to maintain Andøya airstation, they want to maintain school activities in Kjevik, they might want to buy surveillance aircraft – it depends a little on it – and then they're in doubt about the need to save 40 billion. kr. Nevertheless, the lot uses the same amount, 165 billion. kr. Then, of course, you've met all of the parties' assumptions, so you can agree with everyone, but overall, you actually have to pray to higher powers to make it go up. What does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1010	We've been very honest about this. We say that when it comes to the purchase of new surveillance aircraft, we want to see the land traffic equipment before we make a final assessment of it. Once again, when we see our defenses in wholeness, it's one – I say – significant weakness with this plan that we have two legs that we get full insight into, while the third leg doesn't give us the opportunity to see. When we look at the Air Force and the Navy, we have a good insight into this plan, but we don't have the same thing on the ground. I think it would have been a great advantage if we had seen that soundness when we land our priorities. That's why it's Christian People's Party to be honest and say: Yes, we're going for investments both on the submarine side and on the air, but when it comes to surveillance planes, we've chosen to wait until we see the land traffic. Then we get the cure, and then we also have the opportunity to respond to what the representative Tybring-Gjede rightly asks questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1017	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1022	Today's debate is taking place at a time of great change. Controversies against peace many for a time have increased. Earlier today we have discussed the fight against ISIL. The emergence of extreme right-wing forces in Europe is raging. The same is true of a less presumptuous president of our neighbouring country, Russia, and now of the newly elected president of the United States. However, all of this does not justify ending the concept of Norwegian defence. When the previous defence plan was established in the Stortinget, a large crowd agreed that Norway needs a strong army and home protection. Despite this, the Right would not participate in a settlement. Right would strengthen Homeland Security more, to ensure a massive increase in land-military capabilities. They also thought that two mechanized battalions were not enough, Norway required a third. Since then, a mass accumulation has clearly said that if we are to secure the country, we need Norwegian men and women with defence skills – «boots on the ground». Last year, the government presented an investment proposition to the Stortinget, warning that the Norwegian defence without upgraded tanks will have significant weaknesses that an opponent can benefit from. The size was summed up in this. This led to an overall increase in investment in tanks and air defence. Previously, Stortinget has provided a green light for investment in artillery. Right, in the spring of 2014, stated that getting a new artillery was important for the fighting force of the brigade. The Chief of Defense has given clear advice. Norway must not weaken, but strengthen the Army, and we must continue the mechanized brigades. Then we have to make the investments that everyone in this room said a year ago was needed. In addition, securing a mechanized brigade is what NATO is asking Norway to do. Both Russia and NATO countries across Europe, including our neighbouring countries, are now modernising their brigades. Is it a wise strategy on Norway, along with Iceland and Luxembourg, becoming one of very few countries without a brigade? And if one is so uncertain about how Home Protection should be in the future, why did the government decide for next year's defense budget to start the dismantling of Home Protection with 7,000 crews, abolish the Sjöheimewert and lay down three of their bases? I have recorded that the government is trying to give the impression that the Home Security challenge is not a lack of funding, but a lack of soldiers. It's a strange representation. Today, Norway has over 100,000 soldiers of compulsory age who have provided first-time services. The only county where there are almost no more soldiers to pick up is Finnmark. The government is pushing the Army and Homeland into a strangely uncertain future. It is not because it is not advisable to know whether we need a strong army and a strong protection of the world, with basic capabilities and soldiers all over the country. All official documents tell us that we need this. The problem is not the device of the defense, the problem is the lack of funding of the defense. This has also been pointed to by several media. The Secretary of Defense simply did not get what she needed to finance the Army and the Home Office. While the will to defend is high in the Norwegian people, the government's financial will is not so high. It is entirely possible to fund a national defence. It's about priorities. Tomorrow, the Senter Party will present its alternative budget. There will be a preview of how it will be done. We use about a quarter of what the government gives in extra tax relief next year, to strengthen the Army and Homeland Protection. The extra billion we allow the Army, makes it possible to start investing in both tanks, combat air protection and artillery. It should just be missing. That's what we all agreed to do last year. It may appear that the government wants to establish a long-term plan that will set up the defense according to the theories on what the defense might look like in 10–15 years. Managing Norway with a lack of defense over so long is not acceptable. Last year, in the Chief of Defense's professional military council, he wrote that the risk was associated with reductions in the country's power "to a small extent compensated by NATO, unless forces are stationed on Norwegian soil for a day-to-day period; [[...]] The government has submitted a long-term plan to be adopted, which strengthens air defence. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the rural power, coastal defence is the other loser. We have the second longest coastline in the world. Eighty percent of the inhabitants of Norway live along the coast or in coastal strips. Out of the coast there are valuable installations. These facts are not adequately reflected in the government's long-term plan. The government suggests that the Maritime Defense should be able to sail 80 pst. by their vessels. There is no clear nation before, either in wartime or in peacetime. I want to come back with the further deepening of the Center Party's view of the long-term plan. I'll deal with the suggestions the Center Party has with the Left and the ones we're alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1045	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1052	A red thread in the proposition – to which the Workers' Party is otherwise strongly skeptical – is that maintenance and other civil tasks in the Defence shall be outsourced to the private. Apart from the fact that this is probably part of a political ideology, without regard to security – who should actually handle classified material in the Defence? Now we have got the government parties to maintain the workshop in Horten, which is among other things. manages the Special Forces at Vealös, but the Workers' Party and SV have submitted a very strong comment, pointing out this precisely with privatisation and preparedness and is very sceptical of the developments we see in the Defence. We record that the Central Party is not involved in this comment, and I would like to ask the representative of Navarsete: what do she and the Central Party mean about this kind of privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1057	This is not the first proposal for privatization from the government, one already has private solutions in several fields, and there the Center Party expressed a certain degree of scepticism. I guess we didn't feel that the Working Party was as strong then. It must be either – or. Either that's one for private solutions in some fields, or that's one against it. The center party has a pragmatic hold on it. It is very important that classified information is secured, so that it does not involve people or organizations that he does not want. Apart from that, the Central Party does not have aversions against private taking on smaller parts of the Defense Task if it can make the Defense more effective and we benefit from the money better for the purposes for which the Defense should use the Money.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1070	As we have heard several highlights in today's debate, there is considerable funding for the Home Protection and Army in the long-term plan – a large increase both for investment and operation and for new capacities such as the hunters' company at GSV. Then it is almost incomprehensible that the Center Party can claim that it is the country power that is the loser – that the Army and the Home Guard are down priorities. It also rhymes very badly with the atmosphere I meet locally, as in Stjørdal, where the Senterpart rapporteur of the Vigdenes is cheering for the strengthening of the Home Guard and the garrison of the Guards. In next year's budget, we're adding to a larger one-year increase than the increase in government in which the Senter Party put in, prioritised in eight years. I also recall that the Central Party in government closed down four Homeland Districts from 2007. However, does the Central Party still feel that it is reasonable to claim that the Army and the Home Guard are down priorities in the long-term plan, and have you forgotten what you did yourself in the Home Guard when you were in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1077	Yes, the Center Party still believes that army and home protection are down priorities. The reasons for this may speculate a great deal in – whether it is about economics, or whether it is about new surveillance aircraft ‘sealing in as a right’, as someone said, after the defense chief had made his recommendation. The point is that a push army and home protection into a settlement, that a locks large parts of the long-term plan their means before all the defenses have been dealt with. It may be that one is happy in Stjørdal – drones are nice to have new capacities added to their area. But if you meet the Army and Homeland Protection around the country, they won't be cheering on the long-term plan. We're going to stick to the overall situation, and unfortunately it's not that one has prioritised army and home protection, even if it's put on a couple of dollars in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1084	I'm recording that the Center Party is committed to strengthening the Defense, and that's what they've been doing all along, at least in this process. The centre party has also adopted a target to have 2 pst. of the GDP of the Defence, and that is a fine goal, which has also been pursued in NATO. That means you're going to add 16 billion. kr on the defence budget. The centre party is now outside of government, and it may not be quite so demanding to stand outside government and promote what you have actually adopted in your own party. So my question is whether the representative Navarsete is still for 2 pst. to the defense, or whether it's really just election campaign rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1089	When the Advance Party had agreed that the party would go for 2 p.m., the representative Tybring-Gjeed said that this was a brand day, and that it would mean a big difference for the defence in Norway. So, in fact, I should ask the representative Tybring-Gjede if he and the Progress Party still stand for their own country meeting decisions. The centre party stands for its own, and it will also appear when we present our alternative budget that, unlike the Progress Party, we follow up the decision by adding more funds to the defence already in next year's budget. We think it's necessary, not because we're supposed to love it, but because the situation we're up in requires it, and because the Senter Party wants us to have a bet on all the defenses and not prioritize the land power and the partial coastal defense, as it is done by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1094	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1099	The left went into the work on this plan with the following objectives: to strengthen the Army and the Home Office. Our main challenge with the long-term plan presented is that it is a long-term plan only for parts of the defence. You've spent all your resources and space of action on what you've decided to do, while you're waiting for a lot of our defense in the army and home security. The left supports the number of fighter planes, we've just wanted a different phase-in. We support the purchase of submarines, but to throw ourselves over a purchase of surveillance aircraft, which is so poorly explored, which is so poorly professionally founded, we believe that we are wrong when so many other decisions have been made waiting for the same plan. The left agrees that you have to be honest and give priority to the plan, and our approach is also closely linked financially. But what we're seeing is that now there's a consensus here that you're spending a lot of money on air defence and the marines, and I don't think you have room for army and home protection afterwards. We see here that the pause button is pressed for both army and home protection. There are many investigations available for the Army. There are many assessments that have been submitted, but here one chooses for some reason to put a large part of Norwegian defence on hold. There are also many investments within the Army that lie as just dry comments in this year's defence budget, because they have not been implemented. It worries me that some investment decisions in this room are very important, while in the case of others, just as clear and equally specific investment decisions, you can easily press the break button. I think all the decisions taken in this room are just as important, and it's hard to see how to argue that someone is important to push through without further assessments, while others are put on with ease the pause button. Our goal has been to keep functions and to question any of the money spent in the message. Our goal and starting point has not been district policy or keeping bases for the sake of the bases. The reason why we're against putting down Andyya and we're for a divided solution is that we believe that the solution that is now being proposed, to put everything down on Andyya and move it, is an extremely expensive solution. It's a solution where you spend so much money that it takes away the space for action to bet on its army and home protection. We are clearly in disagreement about this. But it's obvious that if the government's calculations don't turn up, the government is obliged to come back to the Storting with the calculations that are right, and then I think we have a chance to discuss this again, because we don't have much faith in the numbers that have been provided. There are military and economic considerations behind our ambitions to change this plan. The plan tends to undermine all investments and to overfinance all savings. There are a few numbers and a few answers that we actually got on the table. I think that's stupid, because this is important and big investment for the country, and then we should have more confidence in the numbers. We are also against the downgrading of the Army that is moving the helicopters from Bardufoss. Here we make other choices. Some have boasted of the process. Unfortunately, I can't do that. I think it's been a bad process, where the big parties, the Workers' Party and the Right, have been more concerned with pushing than listening. I have heard that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has been abroad. That is perhaps why he was not nearby when he heard the door slamming, so this time I will not accuse him of being near when it narrowed. Because it has melted here. We would also say that we have used our budgetary power to ensure that in many of the things that were proposed in the budget, it can now actually open up a rematch. I'd like to get back to that. And then I take up a whole bunch of suggestions from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1118	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1125	In the course of some years in this house, it is not so rare that I have experienced that the Left has proposed to cut the defence appropriations. But when I read the setting for the long-term plan, I see that the Left, with a few exceptions, will not cut any of the Defence Bases, but they will not add any more money to the Defense – a more expensive structure, but no more funds. At least that's how I read the setting. But that's not what my question is really about. These are the special forces and helicopter support, as the other batches in the setting describe. But I don't see what the Left believes about helicopter support for the special forces. So my question is, what is the left hand solution to ensure that the special forces have helicopter support?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1132	I tried to say in my post that the clock belief that just you put down, move and build up new things, you save money, I don't have. Actually, I think building on some of the structures that we have when they're both military and economic is the right thing to do. I think what we've learned from the last defence investment is that these new builders are always going to be much more expensive than you think. The vast majority of investments are much larger than you think, while savings are not as large as you think. The numbers around Andøya Air Station have really created a big debate out there. There is no one who has been able to explain in public space why this is an economically reasonable approach to take. So don't accuse the Left that our economic program isn't linked, because it does. It does, because we actually think that building on some basic structures also brings us to goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1137	First, I want to regret that the Left is not in the agreement, but when you see the device on the long-term plan of the Left, you can see that. What professional-military advice the Left has based on, and what security policy assessments are underlying, do you really know only the Left itself, to the extent that the Left knows it? But now leave it. One of the clear follow-up points of the Gjørv Commission was that the helicopter support and the transport capacity of the emergency team and the Special Forces of the Defence had to be strengthened. One of the grips in the long-term plan is trying to get there. My specific question to the representative Skei Grande is: how will the Left follow up the Yard Commission, so that the security force and the Special Forces of the Defence will increase helicopter capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1144	I am glad that I got that question – I would like to reply properly to the previous one too, but I will be able to do so in later articles. If you're going to have an army, you must also have a helicopter that is effective in relation to that army. That you have to put down all the functions in Bardufoss and then have a good offer to the Army through the rescue helicopters to be placed there, I have no faith in. Trying to solve the emergency team's challenges by using the long-term defence plan and undermining the Army's basic structures doesn't think we're the right solution. We have to solve it for the emergency team in its field, and then we have to make sure that the Army has helicopter services that enable them to actually do their job. You don't do that with the rescue helicopters that are going to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1152	It would have been tempting to ask the same question as the two previous questions, but you don't get an answer, so there's no point in yelling into the woods. The left wants to phase out the acquisition of the F-35, the last fighter planes. And then you have to buy other things for the Army instead of the money you might have to save. The left also suggests acquiring some things called "Commercial Off-The-Shelf". I don't know how well the representative Skei Grande knows about defence materials and acquisition processes and what kind of material is required for different defenses, but «Commercial Off-TheShelf» is not exactly a product that is very common. But my question is: what has the representative Skei Grande seen of the defence industry's role in this? For the more you exclude the defence industry, the fewer jobs and the less technology development you get in the Norwegian defence industry. And has the representative Skei Grande been in contact with the defence industry and asked about the consequences of what the party is proposing, which means that technology is not being developed, for example. space technology or environmental technology, such as defence industry enterprises also... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1159	There was a lot to get hold of. If Tybring-Gjedde is to attack the Left's proposals, he has to get involved in what we're doing. We just want to change the displacement of the phase-in of the planes. We don't want fewer planes. But the problem with what the government is proposing is that too many of the investments in army and home security are being put on hold because you want to move the phase-in of these planes forward in time. We believe that this should be changed between. So the investments are exactly the same in the left-hand option as it is in the government, it's just a different phase-in. I think that if you represent the government, which has cut the entire space research programme in the budget, you should have a slightly low profile in terms of the desire to support space research in Norway. We must have that in the budget negotiations if we are to be able to flag it high. But I think the Norwegian defence industry is not just dependent on the purchases of aircraft. It also depends on the other investments, and there is as much investment in our plan as it is in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1168	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1174	Perhaps “after the war” ended in 2016 — finally. [[cold]] In any case, we are at a time marked by major changes in the security policy situation, and which illustrate the need for Norway to build a stronger national defence capable of resolving a wide range of tasks, including without allied assistance – stronger than we have had, and stronger than SV might have seen in the past. Let me briefly say a little bit about the basis. Russia has been pursuing a more aggressive policy over the last few years while at the same time preparing its own defences. The area north of Norway has large petroleum and mineral resources and is strategically important. New sailing ladders can be commercially interesting. We control sea areas many times larger than our own land area, and in this picture it is important to pursue a long-term and sustainable security policy – not long-term as four or ten years ahead, but long-term as generations to come. This means that Norway has a defence capability that is also equipped for new changes in the alliance and security policy situation. Norwegian security has been and is dependent on NATO, but it would be unwise to base our security on it in the future. Therefore, we did not think that the long-term plan of defence, as he decided today, responded well enough, especially along four axes. The size of the fighter aircraft investment represents the large amount of money, and it becomes too little again for investments in other areas, such as army, maritime defence and the presence of North Norway. In our view, this is not a clear enough priority for the Nordic countries, either in terms of presence or operational capacity. As several speakers have spoken, it is not a good enough priority for the country – and especially the Army – now. Nor is there a clear enough fuse of a self-contained in the entire width in the future. In view of that, many of the SV's individual positions have to be seen in the various issues that are up. Now I'm just going to mention two of those cards. In one of the cases, we are pleased with a positive change, namely that the Coast Guard Command consists. We will also say that we are open to discuss new organisational solutions in the future that see it in conjunction with the special forces. That might be interesting. The second thing we're critical of is that the base of Andeya is laid down. At my best discretion, there is a well-suited base, where the savings basis provided is highly unclear and is far ahead of time. Still, I'm going to spend the last few minutes on the big, heavy road choices, which get too little attention, and which tie in a completely different way. SV supports that Norway should have fighter planes, and we support the fighter flight purchase, but we think it would be wiser to scale it down now to get rooms for other things. As we dealt with it in advance of the order, reports and calculations from the Air Force concluded that we should not fall below 27 to 42 fighter planes in order to be able to call it the least competent weapon. If we look at our allies, there are several who cut orders. All NATO countries that are members of F-35, except Turkey, have agreed or are considering reducing the number of fighter aircraft that they are going to purchase. That is why it is both economic, responsible and defence policy wise. So it's true that if one buys some less of one capacity, it gets a little less, but it has to be weighed against the significant investment power one gets back to another. We also support the intention to purchase new maritime patrol aircraft. It is particularly important to have an independent monitoring capability in our large seas. But I think it would be wise to wait and sort it out a little bit closer before one took the final decision. The P-3 Orion fly has recently been upgraded. It is also possible that drone technology can be further developed and function as a more cost-effective substitute in the long term. In any case, I found there to be compelling arguments for postponing a decision, if one has the intention to calculate the basis better. These are big, heavy road choices that could free up funds for investment in what most people, in both the minority and the majority in this room, say that we would like to have more of them in the years to come. Finally, it is good that a few million more were added to the Defence Music. The music of the defense is hardly the core of a defense in 2017, but I think it can argue that it is an important cultural bearer and the core of cultural life in many places. I see, however, that calculations show that it will not be able to secure full corps, so I will also ask other party here to contribute to it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1200	First to the comment from Solhjell on fighter planes. Isn't it the case that a change in the security policy situation, and not least our responsibility for large sea areas, suggests that we have to have these fighter planes? So to another thing. When Stortinget dealt with the decision of the Gjørv Commission – it was the Commission that went through the preparedness after July 22nd, not to mention the lack of preparedness – it was a pre-requisite of the Stortinget that there should be defence helicopters on the Back to ensure the transportation of and actually support both to the special forces and to the emergency forces in the police in the event of a possible new terrorist attack on Oslo and the Capital Region, or the Eastern region. What is SV's solution to provide special forces with helicopter support?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1207	First of all, regardless of what has happened lately, there is no discussion that there is a need for a strong and well-functioning fighter aircraft for a nation like Norway. What we're discussing is whether the number of 52 is right, or whether we could have a few fewer to make room for other, big and important investments, which I also think the Labour Party is a fan of. To the other, which is extremely important, I would say that there are nine Bell helicopters on the Back today. But the professional advice is that we need to do something to support the preparedness for terrorism. Regardless of the number, more staff and better organisation are needed to ensure that they can have better uptime. I have not seen that there is a good enough basis in our material for it not to be possible to do it with nine helicopters – that more is needed. But we're open to discuss it further. It is important for the terrorist preparedness with the helicopter in South Norway, but it is also important for helicopters in North Norway to support the Army and civil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1214	I want to give EN honor today. I think they have had a very positive approach in this treatment of the long-term plan. It also shows the setting. They're right enough on an aberrant proposal, which I think plagues many, on the question of Andeya. Otherwise, they are relatively positive in their approach. It is also gratifying to see that SV now presents NATO cooperation as positive. It's in the relationship I want to ask Solhjell about this with maritime surveillance planes, because Norway has a huge territorial sea, and we see increased aggression from Russia. The North Fleet sails through this bastion area. It is then that either Norway has to carry out this monitoring itself, or our allies will. What does SV think about that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1221	SV always has a positive approach, it's just that the representative Halleraker might not have got it with him. When it comes to the content of the issue, I have no doubt that it is crucial for Norway to have national control over and have very good capacity to carry out surveillance and intelligence in our own maritime area. That's why we've gone in for it to be right – after looking into it – to have the goal of buying new maritime patrol planes. But that's how we have P-3 Orion planes that have just been upgraded. I know there are challenges to operating them, including: because fewer and fewer countries do, but they are there. It's also a field of rapid development. I don't want to rule out that unmanned flights can handle even more of it in the future. Therefore, we think it would be wise to carry out a more thorough explanation of it before we finally concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1228	A little earlier today, the representative Solhjell said that the Progress Party did not invest in army and home security, that there was a lack in government's investment compared to earlier, and that the government put more effort into this than the government. Then I look in the setting with light and light, I look and look, and I find no suggestion from SV about army and home protection. Then I wonder if it is really in Solhjell's imagination SV bets on home protection, or whether he bets on home protection without telling anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1233	No, it's not in my imagination. It's in something called a budget. It's presented, and that's where one deals with economic promises for next year. That was the budget I referred to. In the last year’s budget, i.e. that for this year’s period, SV contributed more to both military and home security than was the final decision – and to the extent that was the government’s proposal. It's the same thing now. Since there is now agreement between the parties in this field, we know what they have. Last night, SV put forward our alternative budget, where we once again allowed more to do this. But I didn't say – and I won't say – that the Progress Party strongly downgrades it. I mean that SV prioritizes it, and the Progress Party is just a bit away from SV. It's good, but I want to say, as I said earlier today, that I thought the Progress Party has a piece to stretch after what they said earlier about how important it is to strengthen the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1244	The Greens do not sit on the defence committee, so I would like to use this opportunity to clarify some broad lines of the Greens' defence policy. First of all, the Greens are behind the overall line of Norwegian defence policy. We agree with what is stated in the vote, that the aim of Norwegian defence and security policy is to ensure the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Norway, and that the fundamental rationale of defence is to have a deterrent effect on potential attackers. We support the main priorities for the further development of defence in the framework of NATO's collective defence and total defence. Therefore, we also mainly support – with some openings for adjustments – the defence task set as stated in the proposition: credible deterrence based on NATO's collective defence; defend Norway and allies against threats avert and manage incidents and security crises; ensure a national decision-making basis through monitoring and intelligence; raised Norwegian sovereignty conduct the exercise of powers in demarcated areas; participate in multi-national crisis management and peace operations; contribute to international cooperation and security and defence policy actions; contribute to the security of society and other key societal tasks; The Green Party, like everyone else, sees that in recent times – rather recently – the basis for Norwegian defence policy, which has been there since the end of the Cold War, has changed quite considerably. That is a main basis for the choices we make in this case. There has become a demanding and complex situation with Russia's significantly more offensive line, with an uncontrollable situation in the Middle East and, of course, further away with the significant changes in power that are taking place in Asia and other parts of the world, facing a whole new picture. That is why the Green Party is critical when the government has chosen to change the formulation of its first task from ‘making a war-preventing threshold’ to what they call ‘faithful deterrence’. We do not agree that the balance between deterrence and tranquillity is changing, and to us it is more important than ever, in a situation that we now face, that the importance of the defence's first task is understood so that it is war prevention and a threshold defense. On that basis, over the next four years, we will spend an estimated equal amount of resources on defence as proposed by the government, but we will change the composition of the investments and change the phase-in over time of different investment elements contained in the government's proposal. We will also change the composition of these costs, and therefore also where they are inserted, and which activity is prioritised. In this context, among other things: The land estate, when it comes, is an important prerequisite for us to get into. In sum, we want a device of the Defense that goes more clearly in the direction of a defensive threshold defense. The implementation of a defensive threshold defence will be implemented by the Greens/Greens/EFA, among others. by supporting the Left's proposal No. 16 and the eleven main priorities attached to the future strength structure of the defence. The Green Party also agrees to postpone, or phase shift, the order of 18 F 35 fighters by five years, because it will release resources we believe is more appropriate to deploy into the land force. We support the continuation of maritime air surveillance with the Orion aircraft, the operation from Andøya, while Evenes is retained as QRA base for F 35, and we agree that the costs of buying new surveillance aircraft are now out of proportion to what you can get from using them in another area, in particular by implementing what is already a priority for the Army: combat protection, artillery and tanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1290	My question is about police and defence cooperation, because it has been clear throughout the post-war period that there must be clear distinctions here. The defense after the Menstad team was not to be used in the same way against the Norwegian population, and defence minister Thorvald Stoltenberg was asked in 1981 to assess whether Norwegian soldiers would be used against Alta demonstrators. The answer was clearly and unequivocally no, and I believe that it was absolutely right for the credibility of the Norwegian defence. The question is: the threat of terrorism and the threat of terrorism we are facing today requires a completely different relationship between police and defence, both in terms of material matters, and that the defence should provide clear assistance to the police. We have also seen this in other countries that have been hit by terrorist attacks, that they have been totally dependent on this cooperation. Does the representative Hansson think that we need to review the cooperation between police and defence in the light of the terrorist threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1297	As one of the demonstrators who sat up there on the Finnmark range and waited for what came, I still very much appreciated the very clear agreement on the distinction between the Army's duties and the police's duties in Norway. That division has to be as sunny now as it has been before. Then, during the terrorist action we experienced some years ago, we learned that logistical cooperation and decision-making structures in the relationship between police and army were too poorly organized. Of course, the work currently being done to coordinate police and army operations is positive for the Greens, but we must stress that there must be, on the basis of an equally sunny basic division of tasks between the police and the army as we have had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1304	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1309	I would first like to thank the Cooperation Committee, the Committee chairperson for having left this in port, the Labour Party for ensuring a broad and necessary consensus on the long-term plan and on the Christian People's Party and the Left for contributing to a budgetary unity that adds some additional funds to the top of an already historic increase in the budget in 2017. I also want to send a greeting to all our employees at home and outside, who do a very good job every day. We have some of our soldiers sitting in the gallery here too, and it's nice to see. Everyone agrees that the world has changed. We're in a new security policy situation. The threat picture looks different than just a short time ago, and in addition, we are challenged by the collapse of new and old threats. Everyone agrees that the new technology gives us enormous opportunities, but also challenges us in other ways than before. Everyone agrees that we can't expect to have any more warning times. Everyone agrees that geographical distance is no longer the same as security. Not taking into account all the changes in how we set up the Defense would be directly irresponsible, and it would build up Norway's defence capabilities. We can't choose away change and believe that everything is going to be like before. The world doesn't look like that anymore. Our very clear priorities in the long-term plan are a historic economic uplift that is absolutely necessary, among other things. to re-establish the long-term built-up backlog of maintenance, spare parts, standby, etc. The second is a priority of investments that are important for Norway’s defence capabilities and are important for the alliance. We give priority to defence. It is crucial in this long-term plan. Many of the challenges facing Norway are simply not acceptable to us. They are of a nature that makes it quite natural that since 1949 Norway has never established its own defence to handle a large-scale attack alone. We're too small. We must cooperate with allies both in NATO and bilaterally. We do that, and it strengthens our defense. At the same time, we have a special responsibility in the north. We're NATO in the north, and that means that what we do of investment, of operation, of device, has a special focus on the north. Of course, the new threat picture also has implications for our base structure. This doesn't mean that the choices are easy to make, but they are necessary. We must have a base structure that can operate in times of crisis as in times of peace. But we no longer have the luxury of maintaining bases that are not well protected and that can only operate in peacetime. The major priorities of the capacity we are making are to continue investment in fighter aircraft. It is not just for the Air Force, but it strengthens the entire defence capability in Norway. We will also invest in new submarines, in new maritime surveillance aircraft, and one of the main reasons for this is that Norway has six, seven times larger sea areas than land. We have a responsibility to follow up in our neighbourhoods, but in addition, it is important that we do that job ourselves, because this is essential to keep the security policy voltage low. We're adding up to big investments in the Army. Only in 2017 will we invest $1.9 billion. In tanks for the Army. We've settled in between 5 billion. kr and 6 brd. NOK the next four years, and we have set off approx. 25 B.C.E. SEK for investment in the Army until 2028. It's money that's earmarked for the Army. It's not money to fly. It is not money to go to intelligence or to air protection. We are implementing a historic strengthening of the defence budget. It is also absolutely necessary to implement it. In the 20th year perspective, it'll be over 165 billion. kr more. And remember our starting point here. It's that not everything we have today works, we have to do big things to fix it, but in addition, we have to provide sustainable funding for the defence in the future. I am very pleased that the large majority of the committee and of the Storting will agree to make the difficult choices we need to make in order to secure Norway's fighting strength and a sustainable defence in the future. It's a big responsibility, but it's a very necessary responsibility to take, and I'm very happy with what we've now seen, that the committee is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1331	I agree with the Minister of Defence that there is a need to look at land power in the light of the new security policy challenges, but it is true that this has been a long time for the Minister of Defence to investigate, and it should have been submitted to the Storting together with the rest of the long-term plan. The head of defense had made one suggestion. I interpret it there that this was not a solid enough basis to be presented in the long-term plan. Can the Minister of Defence say something about her expectations of the state administration, what kind of security policy analysis and challenge the country power will face in time, and what kind of arrangements does she expect for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1338	I thank you for the question and will try to answer as fully as possible within the minute I have. It is quite clear that the developments we have seen in the threat picture face the entire defence, including the country power, against relatively large challenges. Something has been mentioned here in the past, and it is about mobility, impact, protection, and not least about being able to intervene in a conflict as part of a joint operational perspective — and also about conflict prevention. But we also see that new scenarios come about, such as: urban warfare, which is something we also need to deal with within the framework of the joint operation in Norway. Based on what was done in the previous long-term plan, where we went into the Air Force in particular, especially when it came to fighter base and flight purchase, and less into the other areas, we therefore believe that it is necessary to do this comprehensive analysis. It will be ready for the 2018 budget, and we believe it is an important and correct way to ensure that all the billions we have invested are used in the way that gives the best operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1347	I have noticed with interest that in the setting of the defence tasks – even unanimously, I think – it says that ‘the proposition is to be seen as a continuation of the previous long-term plan proposition’. It's been four and a half years since we had a good and constructive debate on the last long-term plan – I think maybe the tone of the defence minister was a little different than it is today. Then we heard that the long-term plan was too bad, the right wanted a massive, I think even it was, bet on the Army, Bodø main aviation station was probably not to be laid down, nor the Air Force station on Mågerø, and in the fall Eriksen Soreide gave a lecture in Oslo Military Society, where she also did not exactly spare the powder – to use such a term. My question is, what really happened? Since the current long-term plan is a continuation of the previous long-term plan – what really happened, except that Eriksen Soreide became Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1356	What really happened was that the government has spent the time it's been sitting in the government offices, strengthening the defense. We have over-filled the current long-term plan economically, and it has been important to try to achieve a greater balance between tasks, structure and economy. In addition, we have invested in a number of selected areas that have been particularly important, in particular the Intelligence Service and the Maritime Defense Service, because we had so much aftermath, especially on maintenance in the Maritime Defence. That means that we now, this week, on the exercise Flotex for the first time can sail four frigates simultaneously. It's a massive improvement compared to what was the situation. We wanted more information about some of the measures proposed in the long-term plan at the time, but we felt that because there was a majority rule in the rudder, it was difficult to obtain information, and therefore we asked questions in some of the decisions. That doesn't mean we were against the decisions, but we wanted some more information about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1362	We have contributed to a whole in this long-term plan, which strengthens Norway's defence capacity. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has stood behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1365	The advantage of a long-term plan is that there is a longer view than a normal one. At least one can see the integrity. My question to the Minister of Defence is: does she not see the challenge of having a long-term plan of health in relation to the Air Force and the Marine, but does it not have a land power that is ready for the next fall? How easy is it then to see the healing? That's my one question. The second question is: several times during this debate, I have referred to the Defence Manager’s words about implementing a new structure for the education system. He says it very clearly in the letter he sent after the government had made its decisions, that this saw the government in action ‘without the consequence of the solution being thoroughly evaluated’. Those are very clear words. How can the Minister of Defence still choose to go for such a solution, when the head of defence is so clearly opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1372	First of all. In this long-term plan, we have a much more comprehensive view and look much longer than what has been common. We use the 20-year perspective to ensure sustainability of the solutions chosen, and we also look at the entire sector, not just at Defence. It's absolutely crucial, because all the agencies in the defense are helping to build up under the defense, and so it's important to see the whole thing. But as I was in my reply to the representative Huitfeldt, the previous long-term plan was primarily focused on the Air Force and the choice of fighter base, phase-in and decision related to new fighter aircraft. That doesn't mean that everything else was put on hold, but that was the main priority then. We continue to invest heavily in the Army in this long-term planning period, already from 2017, and we have prospects for large investments in the coming years as well. That is important, because we are to have a strong and relevant land power as a crucial part of Norwegian defence. To the education system: careful investigations and calculations have been carried out – we use about 2.5 B.C.E. kr per year of education in the Defence. We believe that this can be done differently, and the fact that we now have a new military arrangement, with fewer officers and more generalists, makes it also time to make changes to the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1381	I did not get a response from Halleraker about the changes that have occurred in the last year. I'm going to read a little bit from the proposition made on 24 April last year, the investment proposition. It says: ‘In the absence of modernisation of the tanks, an army structure of technological imbalances will be provided. This will lead to a weakening of the system as a whole, for example that the tanks are not digitised.’ Furthermore, an upgrade has to ensure that ‘the structure does not have significant weaknesses that can be exploited by an opponent’, and that external quality insurers have concluded that this is both ‘any, balanced and forward-looking’. The government claims that we cannot invest in the Army and the Home Office because the security image has changed so much. Last year the government was in no doubt at all. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if it can respond more specifically to what has happened in the last year, which means that we no longer need tanks and artillery, which the government announced last year that they would buy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1393	Firstly, it is completely wrong that we do not invest in the Army. On the contrary, I have explained this several times – it can also be read in both the budget proposal and the long-term plan. Big investments are made in the Army and in the Heimevernet, both in 2017 and in the following years. We've spent a lot of money investing in the Army in the years to come. Nor is it so that it says somewhere that we do not need tanks. Our point has been as follows: Now that there are so many changes in the threat situation, in the security policy image, we need to be sure that, in a common Norwegian framework and in an allied framework, we are making the investments in the country power and in all other defence structures that are right to meet that threat picture. There are several investigations and analyses around it, but they go in quite different directions, and therefore the government wants to give the defense chief a job to look at this whole thing. I see that it is also in line with what the representative of Navarsete and the Central Party write in the vote, namely that it is the head of defence who gets this assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1400	I would like to begin by agreeing with the Minister of Defence that we disagree on a good deal of figures and on a good part of what has been presented during the examination of this long-term plan, for example. project Andøya. What I want to make sure is two things. One is that the Council of State, if it turns out that the figures presented are wrong, can assure us that that assessment comes to this hall again. The second is that this is a decision that is linked to low trust. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a person is more confident about the future assessments and more understanding and confidence that the figures that are there are actually the right ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1408	I'm glad that we can agree to disagree on some things, because I don't think there's any big doubt that with regard to the overall defence concept, there's quite a disagreement between the government parties and the Labour Party on the one hand and the Left on the other. But what I think is well explained in the vote, and that, in my opinion, is also a good basis for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1412	It also states in the setting – as the representative Skei Grande of course knows – that if there were to be significant changes in the numbering material lying there, it is something that the government of course returns to the Stortinget in a very common way. We have also said – and it follows common practice – that when we implement major projects, we update the annual budget proposals on the progress of those projects. It is also described in the setting. That's what we do every year in the case of Ørland. That's what we do when it comes to the acquisition of fighter aircraft, to mention some examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1415	The music of defence is certainly not at the heart of what will defend the country in the years to come, but it is at least close to the core of an important historian and very important for Norwegian cultural life – and beyond that under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. According to the Music Union, which organizes many of the people who work there, it has an extra 7 million. kr that is now in the budget for next year, made it enough to pay for five crews, but not to play concerts, travel, investing in instruments, having notes, doing something extra – things that one might say are relatively necessary to operate the orchestra, and at least important when one first has them. So my question to the Minister of Defence is two-fold: can she assure us that we will operate five full-fledged corps, with what it means, next year, and will she take an initiative towards the Minister of Culture to discuss a more long-term solution for the defence corps than the repeated threats of closure one has heard over many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1424	It is absolutely right that the music of Defence is important cultural and traditional in Defence. And we have from the calculations made of the activity carried out, a situation in which the music of the Defense implements approx. 40 pst. of its activities aimed at the needs of the Defence – and the Stortingets, the royal house, the government, etc. – which is thus much of the core business. That's also why in the agreement that's in place, we've found an arrangement where the Ministry of Culture carries 40 pst. of the costs of four of the corps, i.e. apart from Stabsmusiken, and it is a contribution to ensuring this funding also in the future. That means that we get a more reasonable distribution of what is the real relationship between the activity of the defence music today related to the Storting, the Defense, the Royal House and the Government, and what is other activity, which is also very important activity, but which is not necessarily defence-related. So that arrangement is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1429	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1434	It's a very important agreement that we have achieved with this setting. Everything related to Defence is not clarified in this plan, but important choices have been made that provide predictability – for important investments, for important material and important competences to safeguard the safety of Norway, with its geography and its long coast, Norway with its neighbours, Norway as NATO ally. The challenge is clear: we need considerable investment and considerable efforts from women and men in defence to provide Norway with the defence it needs. We're going to live with and explain to the North that a greater part of a smaller space of action will be dedicated to the Defense in the years to come. It imposes a high level of responsibility on the government as a political authority, and it imposes a high level of responsibility on the defence for the implementation of its mission and for the management of large social resources. This forward investment is necessary for several reasons. It has been mentioned here today: A more unpredictable security policy situation makes a good and modern defence even more important. There is a need for large investments in key capacities and their predictability: fighter, submarine, surveillance aircraft. To underline that we are going to develop a defence in the pact with a time when major changes are taking place, we are going to prepare the defence to meet an even wider range of tasks in the future and must equip for it: terror, cyber, international operations, defence of Norwegian territory, international operations with NATO allies and the UN partners, with a clear mandate under international law. The Workers' Party has a long tradition of seeking broad reconciliation when it comes to national interests and when they are at stake. We have also done so now, but I do not hide that it has been demanding. The plan was too late, and there was a poor basis for debate. The army was not completed. It gave a faint picture of a whole that's so important. Uncertainty was created about the calculations for base degradation and efficiency. The question of the legitimacy of important decisions was raised. The cooperation parties have strongly disagreed on the part of the agreement which concerns the budget for the following year. This caused the matter to withdraw in time and received attention from many other key issues. Nevertheless, there has been agreement. The plan adopted today has been significantly improved by the treatment in Stortinget. Three batches stand behind. It gives a broad majority of the representatives, but, as Mr Hareide said, there is also agreement on important points from parties that are not in full agreement. That's what I'm choosing to view as positive. We're pushing less of the bill in front of us -- that was a main demand from our side -- 390 million. kr more on next year's budget. Another key requirement is that the Army and the Home Office should not be left standing. Healthy money is being prepared to invest more in, among other things. Air protection for the Army and more means for training in the north of the Army. A third main requirement is a stronger defence in the north, such as: is reflected by the passing of the Coast Guard Command. Helicopter readiness at Bardufoss is maintained pending the land-use study, and the Army and Homeland Protection are strengthened, especially in the north. The plan means painful changes for more communities. It's not new in the history of Defence in our country. Our defense looks completely different today than it did in the decades we have behind us. Then I think there's reason to say that tough party is hit by the Andey community in Northernland. Let me say, it hurts. We have clearly noted the local commitment. The decision is based on what our military professional authorities think provides the best defence solution and defence capability over time, at the lowest cost. I can assure you that we have drilled and turned stones to get those analyses, so that they meet those requirements. The clarity of the professional-military advice must weigh heavily in a plan that deals with our defence capabilities. Otherwise, the economy must weigh heavily, not least because we need to release funds for the expected land-use study and the army's ability. We have ensured that there is agreement on exceptional measures to support the Andey community through a demanding transition. This will follow up the Workers' Party quite immediately. The representative Hareide asked the government to review the figures and possibly return to Stortinget if necessary. The setting has been made very clear. We have given the government a special mission to ensure the quality of the assessments and figures underlying the decision in the plan, and if new reviews change the decision base, we have asked the government to come back to Stortinget with a full review of the revised budget in 2017. This should be necessary for all projects, but it is particularly highlighted now that the defence has a history of frequent deviations. Then we need to get that information quickly and preferably in good time before spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1481	Today we mark an important victory for defence. A large majority in the UK have joined the main lines of the government's long-term defence plan. The three largest parties, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, have reached a settlement, and the Christian People's Party, the fourth largest party, has agreed to the main investments and the grips of the long-term plan. It is important at a time when we see serious changes in our neighbourhoods and a lot of new weapon technology. Today's consensus strengthens the preparedness for the terrorist threat that many fear. The defence must be strengthened and adapted to the new threat picture. It gives a safer Norway. Russia’s annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine were few – if any – who came when we dealt with the previous long-term plan. It shows that we are in a changing world, and that we need a high level of preparedness. The most important thing for the government parties has been to secure Norway’s defence with increased fighting power and economic sustainability. What we're investing in, we're actually going to be able to operate, and that's one of the most important things in this plan. It ensures safety of important investments in new fighter aircraft, surveillance aircraft and submarines. Norway’s strategic position and large seas demand that Norway take its role as NATO in the north seriously. We're doing that with these investments. During the negotiations in Stortinget, the parties have also agreed to add additional funds to what is already a historic commitment to defence. We will further strengthen the Army and Homeland Protection. It's going to add up to the 6 billion. in the case of investments in the country power already included in the plan. The extra funds and the maintenance of the Coast Guard Command, which we now agree to introduce the Long-Term Plan, also reflect an engagement of our many trustees in Right, County and Local Teams. There are many in our party who have a great and important commitment to the defence sector, and the theme was one of the most important at our national meeting in ours. For a long time, defence has been among the sectors with the lowest growth. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the government parties are taking the same road choices – that we have gathered in a broad majority for Norwegian defence, and that a large majority have now committed themselves to increasing the defence budgets in the years to come. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party has shown itself constructive in this process and is now helping to ensure a solid majority for important long-term investments on which the Defence Party is fully dependent. The long-term plan presented by the government will ensure that we get the existing equipment in Defense to work out, that we get increased practice and training. At the same time, the parties have agreed on grips that will disappoint some local environments. Especially on Andøya has this brought disappointment. I would then like to stress that the majority of the Committee has made clear comments and leads for remedial action in Andeya, to be followed up. It is important to show that solidarity also with the Andey community, which has stood up for the Defence for so many years. These grips are necessary because we have to put the nation's defences first. Then everything can't go on like before. At the same time, we get a collection of forces at Evenes, which will be very important in the years to come. The long-term plan that we now agree on meets the security policy challenges in an offensive and responsible way. I would like to thank the other parties for showing responsibility for securing the Defence Force and sustainability. At a time when uncertainty is greater than in the past, our alliance with NATO is more important than ever. The fact that Norway also has very good relations — yes, historically good relations — to its main allies, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France, is also important. At the same time, Nordic cooperation is also better developed and on a completely different level than during the cold war. We have a special responsibility in the north. We are going through this long-term plan. I am pleased with the consensus that has been reached. It provides security for the future. It gives us security in a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1502	First of all, I just want to say that it is a very important matter that we are dealing with now – and perhaps one of the most important issues that the Stortinget will deal with during this period. This is about securing appropriations and planning for a number of years to come, which is to say something about the direction, where Norway is going to go. It is important for the Progress Party as a defence-friendly party that we now ensure that we get a level of funding and a structure that takes us into the future, and ensure that we finance what we need. This was one of the main elements of the National Meeting of the Advance Party: to ensure that the Defence is brought into a new era. I have even found the occasion today so great that I have put on the university tie, just to show that this is the Defence Day here in this room. There are many important things that lie here. A majority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Labour Party, has been established to secure these three major capacities. The coast of Norway and the sea and land areas of Norway are essential to be monitored. Then we need a sufficient number of fighter planes. Then we need submarines that we can use along our coast in defense of the coastline. Then we need our surveillance planes, and not least new surveillance planes, which are going to secure us into the new era. That's why this has been important to get in place. In addition, I am glad that we have a settlement attached to the budget for next year on the defence side, with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It ensures an improvement within this as well. It ensures that the Coastal Cheeral Command can continue at Trodenes in the time to come. This ensures that the Army will actually receive significant increase in the appropriations next year. So does Homeland. You make sure you maintain the workshop in Horten. Yes, you also care for the maintenance of your corps, which is also an important cultural carrier. In addition, home security is strengthened, especially linked to Troms and Finnmark. In addition, sometimes the local politician also intervenes, and it is good to see that at least Setnesmoen is also secured one year more, until the land use study is in place. But the most important thing about this plan is that one shows a direction, and with that direction one also shows how things should be financed. That is what is essential: we must have security, and the defence must have security, that what we put into the plan should also be financed. Therefore, it is important with that direction and with that agreement between the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Labour Party, because it ensures, even in the years to come, that the planned work is also followed up by perhaps – if we are very unhappy – different government options, even though what we have today is, of course, the very best option. One thing that I want to get a little bit into, which I think has got a little too little focus in the debate today, and which we need to have more focus on in the future, is the cyber defence. It's being facilitated, but I think, unfortunately, that for the future, there's one of the things we're going to have a lot more focus on than what we've had up to today. This is not necessarily the case if a country is invaded in the coming years, that it is first seen by the fact that war chariots cross the border. It could be that important infrastructure no longer works, like the flow disappears, you don't have water, etc., which disables important social structures. There's reason to be aware of that. One of the things that in many ways is the most hurt to many in this plan is, of course, Andeya and the Andeans. I myself served on the Andes and lived there for 12 months when I was in the military. I understand the locals and how to look at what's happening. It is therefore important for the Progress Party to ensure that remedial measures are put in place. That's why it's important to keep up the airstrip on Andøya, so that the airport can be there. It's a very important factor for the community. That's why we have to make sure that the ATC, the test center, continues in the years that are coming. Therefore, we need to ensure that we facilitate economic development. We have a special responsibility for the Andey community.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1517	In the period 2001–2005, I contributed to two defence disputes. There was a deal between the Workers' Party and the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Government. We felt it was important and necessary to have a broad majority for sustainable defence adapted to a new day of security policy and unforeseeable threats. It sounds familiar. The defence was then transformed from an invasion defence to an intervention defence based on fewer bases and on units of high competence. A long-term defence plan shall preferably last beyond the relevant downgrading period, be predictable and ensure stability and security. Therefore, settlement is important. We have a responsibility for that. I would like to commend the Minister of Defence, even though she, as committee chairman and case rapporteur, said no to the settlement last time – she was in opposition – because she felt that the country power was not concrete enough. A defence for the next few years must be flexible and mobile enough to meet rapidly changing challenges in the security environment. It is both about our neighbourhoods and about the unstable situation around the Mediterranean. In the Middle East and North Africa, we find a number of states with little or no state control, which have given ground and free areas to terrorist organisations, international organised crime and human smugglers. The war in Syria is getting ever closer. At the same time, we now experience uncertainties related to transatlantic cooperation, which has been our carrier for 70 years. Therefore, there is a need for enhanced operational capability and investment in new capacities to face an unstable situation, but also for increased civil-military cooperation in an anti-terrorism preparedness. It must also govern the arrangement and dimensioning of some of the Armed Forces’ capabilities. That's why it's important to have a helicopter standby both on Bardufoss and on Rygge. We need helicopters on Rygge as part of a terrorist alert for the capital area to carry both special forces and police. But we also need helicopters for the Army at Bardufoss. So no helicopters are moved from Bardufoss until new helicopters are in place. And the Workers' Party will have new helicopters for the Army at Bardufoss and will take this up both in front of our national meeting and after the big shot. Andøya is difficult for us. Now the government is going to go through the cost calculation and present it to the revised national budget, so that we can look at the calculations that have been made – whether they are correct or not. Our sea areas are seven times larger than our land area. That's why we need fighter planes, so we need submarines, and we need surveillance planes. The Nordic regions are the most important strategic area of foreign policy. It applies not least to the northern sea areas. Unfortunately, there is a pervasive premise in the proposition – to which we are strongly sceptical – that maintenance and other civil tasks should be outsourced to private individuals. This is probably governed by a political ideology, regardless of the security or the kind of companies that suddenly assume clean-up, maintenance and other civil tasks. Who's really going to handle classified material? Who's going to move into the Defense's premises a late evening? Maintaining sensitive defence equipment can really lead to increased risk. In the proposal, the workshop in Horten is proposed, a workshop such as: serve the special forces when at Vealas. I am glad that through the agreement we have secured the workshop. Let me add that the workshops in the defence are largely financed by income. And finally, the delivery of ready-to-conflict material – remember that it is ready-to-conflict material – is crucial to the operational capabilities of the Defense. It has to be handled in a better security way than putting it out to a little random private.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1543	We're all concerned with some security to feel safe. It's not something most of us think about in everyday life, but we need security in everyday life to work, and we need security to preserve state power. The most important task of a country is to protect its citizens – defence is one of the central tasks of the country. A reduction in defence over many years has meant that today we do not have the defence capabilities that correspond to our need for prevention, deterrence and security. With the security policy situation we have today, I am not in doubt that defence must be strengthened. Then we must have a defence that can meet the new challenges of increased operational capacity, combat strength and endurance. Security policy developments show that crises can arise rapidly and that the need to have military capabilities available for short alert crisis management has increased. The long-term plan has addressed these challenges, and the defence structure is adapted to a new security situation and new threats. Much of the long-term defence plan is about making larger parts of the defence available and ready for action on short notice. The long-term plan also provides for more of the defence money to be spent on operational activities. We need to use material, weapon systems and personnel in such a way that we get the most combative force possible. We need to see the defence capabilities as a whole for the defence of Norway – this is not only about where we have military departments, but also about how they are equipped and how we use them. The northern regions are Norway’s main strategic area: Norway is ‘NATO in the north’ – and it commits. The new plan increases the presence in the north because we're increasing the activity in all the defenses. A bet on intelligence, new fighter aircraft, new submarines and maritime patrol aircraft strengthens Norway's defence capabilities, and much of this activity will take place in the north. The defense's centre of gravity has been moved northwards, and North Norway has been central to Norwegian security and defence policy since the war. This is strengthened in this long-term plan. Increased northerly navigation also leads to increased activity at the base of the Marine Defence Agency in Ramsund. The base shall be a maritime logistical base for surface vessels and submarines and shall be continued as a training centre for the special forces. The coastguard is continued in Blackland, and the phasing-in of new NH90 helicopters strengthens the capacity of both the Coast Guard and the frigates. And by sailing more in the north, we show presence and guarantee Norwegian sovereignty and our sovereign rights. The Coast Guard Command shall be further developed and linked more closely to, inter alia. Special forces of defence. They have high availability, are experts in coastal operations and are being continued as an important capacity for North Norway. The long-term plan provides for the development of Evenes as a well-protected base both for fighter aircraft and for new maritime patrol aircraft. The continuation of our maritime surveillance aircraft ensures a good understanding of the situation along the coast and strengthens the capacity to monitor our vast sea areas. With the creation of a hunting company in Finnmark, increased presence, operational activity and preparedness are given priority. Border guards will have better self-protection, mobility and firepower. There's a considerable stake in the army and the HV. There must be more practice and training, and there must be a large rise in backlogs on maintenance and increased emergency stock. This means that training and training become more material, and collectively this will help to increase preparedness, stamina and fighting power. The Brigade will finally receive fighting air protection after many years without, and the Land Power Study will determine the further development of army and HV, where mobility and reaction capability become a central part of the investigation, assessing the need for helicopter capacity. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1574	This is in many ways a brand day in Stortinget. There is a commitment to increased defence capabilities. A large majority now commits to significantly increasing budgets over the years to come. It ensures the defence of fighting strength and sustainability – and it will ensure a safe Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1577	I'll start by stating that this is an important plan. It is important for Finnmark, for North Norway, for Norway as a whole and for Arctic cooperation, but not least for our international commitments. The most important task of the defense is the timeless responsibility for upholding our sovereignty and our rights – a responsibility we take in the deepest seriousness. It was with some concern that I registered the government's proposal for a long-term defence plan when it finally arrived before the summer. Here was the conversion of rhetoric, a possible shift in the foundation of security policy, and despite the government's promise of a historic promise, there were few, if any, organizations that rejoiced and were satisfied with the effort. On the other hand, in the Committee during the summer and autumn, we have had many and thorough concerns about the direction of the proposal and budgetary developments – what this will mean for defence, and not least the numbers and bases of the various proposals – concerns that I believe were the basis for listening carefully. That is why I am pleased that we have reached a compromise – a compromise that I believe provides a better solution for tomorrow's defence than what was the starting point for the government. I am particularly pleased that the Army and the Home Guard are strengthened, that it comes to the north, and that it will especially benefit Troms and Finnmark and Porsangermoen. A strong army and a nationwide shelter are and will remain at the heart of a balanced national defence. I am very pleased that through the agreement, we secure the Coast Guard Command, which many have been in, thereby ensuring an important part of our coastal defence by maintaining an important preparedness from a very competent department in the north. It is important for both the Defense, the Army and the preparedness in the North that they have agreed to continue the Bell helicopters according to today's model, which ensures, supports and increases preparedness throughout the country. I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Workers' Party is clear that Bell or new helicopters for the Army will continue to be stationed at Bardufoss in the future. We who live in the north may feel extra good about the body. We are ‘NATO in the North’, the very foundations of a safe and stable defence policy, while at the same time providing a good and constructive neighbourhood in the North, based on trust and predictability. That is why I am pleased that the Committee has emphasised the defensive dimension by focusing on having a war-preventing threshold defence. As I said, I am pleased with the compromise, but at the same time: it is a compromise. It is something that both I and the Workers' Party must relate to us. There is no doubt that the compromise changes several important assumptions in the long-term plan of the red-green government presented four years ago. Today, we are adopting new structures for defence. We all have registered the commitment of very many teams in an honest attempt to influence the decisions we are going to make today – from preserving the clarinets to continuing operations on Andeya. People care because it's about people. To be a little personal, Andøya has been a very difficult matter for me too. I would like to say to the rapporteur, who is sitting at the gallery here, that we have tried to do so, but that did not go our way. That's why I'm very pleased that the committee is so clear that we have to do what we can to make Andøya a viable society even after the last surveillance plane has taken off from the base of Andeya. In particular, I am pleased that the Committee asks the Government to ensure the quality of the figures on which all the decisions taken in this long-term plan are based. I also have a clear expectation that the government will do this job in a thorough manner, and that the government will listen to the many questions and objections that have come. I also think it would be smart for the government to use external consultants to ensure legitimacy for the outcome, which I think all parties will be well served. I refer to the fact that the current long-term plan contained a clear direction and clear measures for the Army and the Home Office. We now agree that a land power study is to be conducted to ensure quality in this direction and with the clear leadership that the army's centre of gravity should be in the inner Troms and Porsangs and South Varangs in Finnmark. I'm very happy about that. I think I have to stop there, for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1603	The Minister of Defence said in his speech earlier today that the world has changed. After hearing today's speakers from the Right and the Advance Party, I would say that the defence debate in the Stortinget has also changed. And I want to add: to the better. I think we have had a good debate today: a lot of important things are affected, there is a great deal of agreement on many things, but also disagreement on some points. On Friday, many of us will attend the annual session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, of all places, in Istanbul. There we are going to discuss issues relating to the situation in Turkey, the situation in Syria, the relationship between NATO and the United States, the fight against ISIL, the relationship with Russia, and let us not forget the situation in Afghanistan – important issues in a challenging situation for NATO cooperation, in fact, a situation where there is war in Europe, with what is happening east of Ukraine. Over almost 70 years, we have had collective protection through NATO cooperation. And we can say what it is: the United States has funded a lot of the NATO structure. That time is over. It has nothing to do with Donald Trump being elected President of the United States – it may reinforce it, the time may show – but at least the last two Presidents of the United States have said that Europe and the European NATO countries need to take greater responsibility for their own security. We have to do that. We have to do it as individual countries, and we have to do it the different NATO countries together. Many, I see, in the public vocabulary saying that now we have to have a plan B. No, I don't think that's right to say that. But we're going to think anew in NATO cooperation. That is why I think it is right and important that we develop Nordic defence cooperation. There we are even in the situation that we are cooperating with two non-NATO countries. And I could imagine, when I heard the Secretary of Defense also mention Nordic defence cooperation, as I think she does a little too rarely, that there was a little bit more commitment and a little more sense of what is involved in Nordic defence cooperation. There's not enough power in it. I also believe that we need to cooperate more closely with other NATO countries that we stand close to political and security – countries such as Denmark, countries such as the Netherlands, and in particular I want to bring Germany forward. Therefore, I hope when the day comes and future submarines will be chosen, that there will be cooperation with Germany and other countries that it is natural to cooperate with on that project, because it is important both politically and politically. The Minister of Defense will not answer for what kind of submarines we're going to choose. Many have said that the Andøya case is difficult. That's it. Not enough that Andøya is a well-functioning community, it's also a well-functioning air defence base. There are arguments for and arguments against decommissioning and force collection at Evenes, but if we are to gather at Evenes, we must at least be sure that in this expansion case the economic calculations will hold. It has been a difficult matter, but I would also say that the helicopter question has been a difficult matter. The army needs a helicopter. The army in Troms must have a helicopter. But the special forces also need helicopters. I would say that it would be irresponsible for Stortinget if we had ignored the clear advice we have received that the special forces must have helicopters. That is why I think we have found a good solution to that, that the majority now outlines a good solution. Then I have to say that I was very surprised earlier in the debate when the leader of the Left – whether it was because she didn't want to or couldn't, I don't know – could not answer what is the Left's solution to ensure that the Special Forces have helicopters. I have also seen that Left's Ola Elvesuen has turned on that question. We need to know what the oldest party in Norway thinks about helicopter support for the special forces. That's not how far we've got it. Many of the speakers have asked questions. The left has not yet answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1622	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1628	For more than one generation, the defence debate has been characterised by too much security optimism and by too little economic realism. There has been no balance between tasks, structure and economy in the defence. A maintenance seat towing, a lack of spare parts, ammunition and standby bearings of approximately 2,5 billion have been detected. kr. This was not how it could continue, and the Right Party and the Advance Party started the reverse operation as soon as we came into government in 2013. The new threat picture and the serious security policy situation further reinforce the needs and challenges. We will meet the challenges of strong and credible national defence in combination with close and close alliance cooperation. We need to strengthen defence capabilities and, in combination with sedative measures, build a credible deterrent prevention – a new normal situation for defence. In a time of increasing regional and global security threats, the world needs more international cooperation and cohesion, not less. We must safeguard our security interests together with our friends and allies and call about the fundamental values we share: freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights – values that are easy to take for granted, but that are under strong pressure. In Norway, we have based our defence and security policy on the alliance commitments in NATO and on close bilateral cooperation with our main allies, the United States. We are ‘NATO in the North’, protecting NATO’s outer border, controlling all activities in our areas of interest and ensuring territorial and maritime sovereignty through increased presence, intelligence and understanding of the situation. It provides a solid basis for this long-term plan. We assume that the collective security guarantees continue to apply and that the partnership in NATO and between Norway and our main allies, the United States, will not be weakened. At the same time, we must recognise that both Norway and Europe must take more responsibility for their own security. We cannot expect other countries to rescue us unless we ourselves are willing to prioritize the basis for that to be possible. Norway therefore leaves no doubt that we are under our obligations as a NATO member, and that the objective of using 2 pst. of the GDP of the Defence. Never before has there been a similar strong long-term plan to strengthen the defence of the country. The 165-billion-billion-dollar increase. kr during the period is a historical promise. Through the conciliation and budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, the long-term plan has become even better. The size ensures the defence of the necessary predictability through long-term obligations, regardless of changing governments. A lot of demanding choices and changes have been made. The defence needs have been guiding, and should increase operational capability, reduce clairvoyance and increase fighting power, and ensure that we get the most defence capability out of the total resources. With firmness and strength, we will meet the security challenges. With a strong defence, we secure Norway – everything we have and everything we are – for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1649	The centre party has been, and is, a faithful defender of the defense of the people, the National Security Institute and the Home Office. Norway’s security depends on the willingness to defend and the competence of the Norwegian people. For this reason, it is so important for the Centre Party to strengthen the Institute of Protection and the structures of the Defence that keep the admission of the Data Protection Officers up. If Norway is to exist as an independent nation state, the Norwegian threshold defence must be based on Norwegian soldiers. The Government will decide on investments related to maritime and air battle forces without clarifying the role of the country powers. It binds large resources of operation and investment to sea and air without simultaneously looking at how to handle the Army, the Home Office and the defence of the coast. That's what the Center Party thinks is very unfortunate. All areas of defence must be seen in the context. The Central Party proposes that maritime air surveillance be continued and operated from Andøya. Evens are retained as QRA base for F-35. There are many strong arguments for the continuation of maritime surveillance aircraft from Andøya, among others. for the further development of Andøya Space Center and Andøya Test Center. Andøya Test Center contributes to a significant allied exercise activity in the north. In addition, when moving surveillance planes to Evenes, you'll have to build up as much of what is needed to house the surveillance planes on Evenes. Therefore, the Center Party believes that a shared solution between Andøya and Evenes is the best, or to say what retired flag commander Jacob Børresen has said: ‘And Island is a uniquely good case in which regional policy and military policy considerations are perfectly consistent. On Andøya, most of the people who work on the airbase and on the planes live. This gives the base a very good preparedness that will not be as good if the employees are forced to move to Evenes and have to settle at either Narvik, Harstad or elsewhere.’ The relocation of the Bodø airport sees the Senterpartiet as very positive, and it is important that funding is ensured so that the plans for the construction of a new airport can be realised. Furthermore, the Air Force Inspector-General must be moved to Retan, in line with the decision of the Storting in the previous long-term plan. It is a great paradox and a problem that Storting's decision is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1667	Today, by a large majority, Stortinget confirms the large lines of the long-term defence plan. This is a long-term plan that is important for the future of Norwegian defence. Not least, this is a long-term plan that also strengthens and increases defence activity in the north. The defence is not today adapted to the challenges they face to help secure yours and my security. This plan represents a historic increase in the defence budgets for the years to come. Increased budgets and structural adjustments increase northward navigation. This will lead to increased activity at the base of the Naval Defense Force in Ramsund. The base shall be a maritime logistical base for surface vessels and submarines and shall be continued as a training centre for the special forces. A new logistic vessel will increase the stamina of operations in the north. In addition, the Naval Defence Coast Guard Base and the Coast Guard management are continued in Sortland. The phase-in of the NH90, the increased exploitation of helicopter-bearing vessels and the acquisition of new seagoing coastguard vessels contribute to increased capacity of the Coast Guard in the northern sea areas. I have recorded that there are different teams, including within the Defence Department, coming up with different signals about the need for protection of bases with air protection. I trust both the head of defense and the Ministry of Defence when they present how this will be resolved for the future. These are professional-military assessments based on the modern threat picture. Therefore, the fighter base must be well protected with modern air protection. With the reinforcement and power collection that takes place around Evenes, we will get a well-protected base for both fighter planes and for the new maritime patrol planes. The Base on Evenes is planned to have a fixed coating of up to 600 employees and 300 compulsory soldiers, in addition to both the continuous and periodic presence of personnel from other bases. The establishment, despite the fact that Andøya Air Station is shut down, leads to a significant increase in activity in the Ofoten region, and I think it's worth it that we're about to start to notice. That being said, I also understand that such a forward-looking plan also has some negative consequences, and I am thinking especially of Andeya. Then I am pleased that the government, and now the Storting, is so clear that the government has to deal with compensatory measures. I will have a strong focus on this in the future with both a forward-looking political environment and a forward-looking business in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1681	There is a broad consensus on most of this long-term plan. It signals an even stronger growth in the appropriations in the defence budgets ahead of what we have had in the years behind us. I think we should admit that it can be demanding – but it is necessary. Nevertheless, I would like to warn against becoming a bit too euphoric, as the representative Øyvind Halleraker, in my opinion, was when he said that we are ‘building up the country’s defence capabilities’. We've been strengthening the country's defence capabilities for the past decade. In 2005, the defence budget was under 30 billion. kr. Next year it'll be over 50 billion. kr. That's an increase of over two thirds. In these years, it has invested in new equipment, from cooks and skis to frigates and new fighter aircraft. The army is strengthened. It's not now that we're starting to rebuild the country's defenses. That's what we started when we started with the big change of defense from the turn of the century, from an invasion defense to an intervention defense. Then there is a continuing need for change and transformation, in the light of the security policy situation, technological developments and economic challenges. I'm saying this because I think we're going to be a little sober in the defence debate. We have had a lot of reactions in the last few years, using terms that may indicate that there is a concern in many people that, in my opinion, there is no basis for doing so. It is absolutely essential that we have economically sustainable structures. If not undermined military defence capabilities. Necessary changes are postponed in some of the alternative proposals here. Then they become more extensive, and often more painful, when they have to be taken. The arrangement of the intermediate lots means to enter this trap. They fear that the effectiveness of the defence itself will contribute is too optimistic – and it is demanding. But at the same time they'll keep several of the bases. It requires more money and makes efficiency even more challenging. Nevertheless, neither the Left nor the Christian People's Party proposes more money to the Defense in its alternative budgets, and it remains to be seen what the Center Party proposes. An increase in appropriations has been announced. I also welcome the agreement that we should ensure adequate helicopter support for the special forces, which are the Army in the south, and that the necessary helicopters should also be secured to the Army in the north. This study we're going to have might suggest that the helicopters should be of a slightly different and perhaps better capacity than the Bell helicopters are.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1692	The highlight of the defence policy area during the major period is the consideration of the long-term plan. The problem with the treatment of the last long-term plans has been that the peak has become very short-lived. The gap between the objectives, the means and the tasks that the Defense subsequently was able to solve grew larger and larger. The current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, said in 2009 that the change in defence is almost complete, we have a defence that is out of trust. Unfortunately, that was not the case. This government went to the works and discovered the state of things in the defense as soon as possible after they took over the government offices. The Professional Military Council of the Defence Chief was speeded up. It was an ominous advice, but it was a very good advice. The Council was very clear: if one continues with the same appropriations for defence, one goes towards a guided winding-up. So the defense was about to go against the edge of the dome. The main task of the state is to protect the country and to protect its citizens. This long-term plan takes the task of the State more seriously. Our defence capability is the combination of our national defence and what NATO can contribute. Norway is NATO in the north. With our vast sea areas, which are seven times our land area, it goes without saying that we must have a maritime defence and capabilities capable of monitoring and raising sovereignty, we must have the necessary predictability and be able to take the right measures militaryly and in the field of defence policy. Therefore, new submarines, new surveillance aircraft and new coastguard vessels are now being invested. That's absolutely necessary. It's a task that Norway itself has to attend to 365 days a year, it's not something we can leave to our allies. It would be perceived as a threat by our great neighbor in the east. But if we are to have a defence, we must have a defence that has defenses that are so strong and so balanced against each other that they can cooperate. For this reason, 6 billion are invested in the four-year period. kr extra to the army, and the army is in by 20 billion. kr during the 20-year period. Finally, I see that the time is about to run from me, but I have to almost come back to my own line to the left. I just note that the Left has no response to how to strengthen the transport support, the helicopter capacity of the special forces and the emergency team. It's a follow-up point from the Gjørv Commission that it's immeasurably important for the government to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1705	When we read on a long-term basis, one might wonder if we who live in the North West do not have the same security requirements as others in Norway. We should have that, but it doesn't seem like government means it. After all, a solution to the degradation of the Heimevernet is already in the state budget for 2017, and one will liquidate the HV-11. Fortunately, the Left has used its political capital to prevent that from happening, that is. to post it, and then get a good job in the meantime. Unfortunately, the protection of the marine environment is laid down, and one will also remove the corvettes. That means that the coast is becoming swayed. I said a little in my main post about how much capacity a miner should have to operate the marine defense, so it should be 80 pst. the time in operation. No one thinks it's possible, and I think the coastal population will get a reluctance to defend. If we see this in the context of the police reform, I think we also have a weakness of security. The National Audit Office has said that cork police, the Ministry of Justice and Defence or the Ministry of Defence do their job in terms of object security, and we know that many of the objects to be secured are also located along the coast and off the coast. Today, we have heard representatives from the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party in a flock, and then go up here and say how sad and tired they are, and how terrible it is to shut down Andeya Air Station. Well, a man actually didn't do it, if one thought it was so sad. One could actually postpone it, because there's no hurry. One has not implemented the project you should have done, an air protection project, to get the real costs on the table. It seems after today’s debate that a believer can leave Andyya – 11.5 million m 2 of land and 95 000 m 2 of barley – without costing anything. Then a maintained airstrip should ensure that Andøya Test Center can use it and the other facilities. Hang this on hold? And we also know for sure that it's going to be a much higher cost than what was represented for Evens. One should learn from the Orlandan, one should learn that here needs a far better and safer fact. We thought it was done up and down and down, but we see that it cracked like Christmas. I would like there to be an even wider majority in this room today, but it seems that some of the performance projects were so important that it was not possible to get involved in the negotiations. Unfortunately, one of the And Islands was.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1724	Today is a sad day for many, not least for the Andey community. Even if it is to be 4 to 6 years before the new maritime surveillance aircraft are in place on Evenes, this will have consequences from day one for Andøya. It is good to choose to maintain the maritime surveillance planes, but disappointing that they did not stay on Andøya. As a representative of the Nordic countries, of course, I am pleased with the initiative in Ofoten, which is just how the disappointment today is surpassed by the joy. There have been, and are, major discussions on the basis of which this decision has been taken, keeping goals financially. When you chose not to postpone this decision, I am pleased that we have got a clear assumption in the setting, and I quote: ‘The Committee refers to questions raised in the economic decision-making framework relating to parts of the long-term plan proposal, including the Evenes and Guards Collection. If there are significant changes to the decision-making basis, the Committee takes the view that the government will return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2017 with an update.’;» Everyone in this room agrees that of the proposals available, the closure of Andøya Aviation Station is the most negative impact on the communities concerned. It is now important that we all agree to facilitate that the municipality of Andøy should have good conditions to convert and further develop after the closure of the air station. This job must start now. I have registered that the county is already in contact with the municipality and that immediate action is required. I also believe that one of the measures must be that, as part of the transition, we provide state jobs to the Andey community. I also believe that a speedy solution must be found for fishing ports in Andøya. I also point out that in the vote there are clear formulations from the majority who are committed. I quote some of them: ‘The Government takes overall responsibility for the care of the Andey community’;» ‘to facilitate exceptional State intervention and be allocated funds’. ‘in the period up to 2020, facilitate targeted migration with a view to minimising the negative effects as far as possible’. ‘Andrea Airport is also maintained after 2020, with a runway length allowing ATC to base its operations on the fact that large aeroplanes may still land on Andøya. Furthermore, the Committee considers that on special occasions, the defence may support the ATC in which military presence is a prerequisite for carrying out the activity.’;» ‘explored establishment of a national centre of competence for drones/unmanned craft, where Andøya Space Center and Andøya Test Center are considered a possible location’ Not least, the Defence Framework Agreement is extended to 2026 and beyond. I therefore expect us to see this investment already in the 2017 budget and in the transport plan coming to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1761	I didn't go into the budget in my main post, but I just have to say – both from who drew it, and from who just had the word – that I don't have much respect for the Crocodile tears of the Workers' Party for the Andey community. If it had been important for the Workers' Party to secure Andeya, there would have been a clear majority in this Chamber. The Workers' Party knows that well. The left has had the opportunity to influence by being part of the budgetary unity, and we can use the budget to get through some of the important issues for us. Overall, it has been a matter of not laying down important army and home security structures until we have the land force study in place, so that we keep the structures we have until we see the whole. We thought that was the weakness of the government's budget, that some of the decisions were taken where the break button was actually pressed. For us, it was important with coastal hunters, with some investments for the Army and the Home Office, and with the education reform, that it is also seen as a whole, and that the massive closure is not being done. So it is clear that this could be a campaign case, a matter that will also intervene in the elections. I think there's going to be a lot of creativity in this room if you're going to form a government and get beyond all three center parties to get to it. The last thing I've been busy about, which doesn't directly affect our military part, are the music boxes. I can tell that I have had a personal campaign against the Minister of Defence on the run; in any official situation I have leaned forward towards the Minister of Defence and pointed out: How had this become without a corps? For me, the corps are also about part of the defense, because it's about part of the morality, part of the culture, and part of the traditional carrier in our defense. We have fallen out of the comment about the music inspector, who SV is alone about, and on whom we would like to join, but we need to find some good solutions for the music villages in the future that will make this fight not have to be fought every time. I think this is the third time I've been doing this in my time in Stortinget. We have to create a predictable and clear framework, which makes it predictable for people who work in them, and that this is not a discussion in every long-term plan or at every important marker in the history of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1773	Then we have to remember that all the cultural work behind our corps, art and museums are important intermediaries of the values on which our defense is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1776	The Defence Manager has some very readable comments on the government’s long-term defence plan. I think it is worth noting that the defence manager describes the long-term plan as ‘a historical economic upturn in the 20-year period’ and also ‘promoting a plan in the long-term balance’. In sum, the Defence Manager believes that this ‘provides the basis for the development of a defence capable of fulfilling the tasks assigned’. But we should also note that the head of defence also has critical comments, which are well worth listening to. They concern not least the government's proposal to adopt a rapid implementation of a major education reform in the Defence. The Chief of Defence writes the following, on page 119 of the Proposition: ‘My recommendation was to wait for structural changes until the defence has implemented a new military regime and experience with it was surveyed. However, the Government recommends a comprehensive reconversion of the education system without the existence and apparent absence of experience in the new military system, without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the solution.’;» Firstly, the Chief of Defense will wait for a change until the Defence Force has gained experience with a new military regime. However, there is an even stronger message when the head of defence even states that the government proposes a comprehensive change to the education system ‘without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the solution’. It is preferable to know the consequences when proposing such major changes to the education system as the government has set out in the long-term plan. For my part, I would like to stress the defence manager's recommendation on this point and support this: first, get a thorough assessment of the consequences of the proposed conversion. And so: Before we adopt such a comprehensive educational reform, the conversions and consequences should be presented in a separate case for Stortinget. We need to know what we're doing, when we change something as important as the defence education system, and not let such a fundamental change get through without a thorough impact assessment. Therefore, the Stortinget should wait today to adopt a education reform which does not have a thorough impact assessment. And therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we do not support a decision to abolish Kjevik. The Christian People's Party will vote against this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1792	This is a major debate on long lines, but it is also a very important debate. I think we're spending a little bit of time on our own advantage and a lot of time and resources on the addiction of others. Clearly, NATO is our most important ally and an essential actor in order to safeguard the Norwegian defence and security of our country. That's why the discussion about how a person spends money is quite important, and fortunately, the Left has had a debate about it. It was also wanted to give an alternative priority. The role of home security is one of the advantages of a long-term country where knowledge of its own country is important. That's why it's been a high priority for us, but also the land power and the role of the Army and how they can play on each other. The debate on helicopters has been part of the discussion on how to finance this alternative. It is a little difficult to understand that space from 2016 to 2020, why an aging Army with helicopters on Bardufoss and does not increase civil security and preparedness in the East during that period, until 2020, for it must obviously be too low. What does the government intend to do with that? It's left as a pretty big question mark here now, where one does not liquidate at Bardufoss, but has an ambition to build up the Back. Then I have to take a trip into my own constituency. From Uppland there have not been so many speakers here, but the digital field we are about to adopt now is to be established and built up and become a large bet area, the cyber defence, and it is important that it now finds its anchoring on Jørstadmoen. There have been many fights up through the years to establish it, there are many conflicting interests. But it's important that it gets in place, that we get that management to build up that cyber defence, which we so badly need, also because we're building up other civil cyber competence in the same region, linked to the Center for Cyber and Information Security at NTNU on Gjøvik. It is an important competence built up in that region. At the last session of the Nordic Council fourteen days ago, there was an interesting debate on its necessity in all countries. Here we can cooperate more in the Nordic region, we can also cooperate more civilly. It is important to play on civil competences and capacity without necessarily being a member of NATO and the EU in parallel, but countries can cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1801	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that the Labour Party through the negotiations with the government has helped to strengthen an important commitment to the Defence in the north. It's in the north you have to have the sharpest look fixed. It does not have the government’s proposal – despite the fact that the Minister of Defence said today in his speech: ‘We are NATO in the north’. Nevertheless, I cannot hide that I am disappointed today. As politicians, we also have responsibility for the consequences of the decisions we take that affect local communities. The setting also indicates that the most negative action is the closure of the Andeya air station. I feel deeply about the inhabitants of Andøy municipality. It is therefore also very important to ensure the quality of the decision-making framework. There must be no doubt about it when the government returns to the Stortinget at the latest in the revised budget. At least as important is that you start what I want to call immediate conversion. The worst thing that can happen is that the pool of competences is starting now. That is why I expect, particularly with the background of the commitment of the Left and Christian People's Party to Andyya, that the 2017 budgetary agreement will take action on behalf of the Andey community. One is to reverse the government's proposal for a reduction in the participation in ESA's voluntary space programme. I recommend that the budget-mates follow up on the Workers' Party's proposal to double the appropriations for follow-up research. It will be an important contribution to Andøya. The second thing I expect is that the start-up and improvement of Andøy port will be part of the 2017 budget agreement. Unfortunately, we see that the county council, which is an important player, is cut off its allocation of regional development funds – money that would have been useful. Then I register that the Left is upset that I have said that they could have saved Andeya if they wanted to. Let me take this in order. Point number one: it was the government that proposed to lay down the Andes Island. So the left has been involved in the deployment of this government. If Andøya was most important to the Left, they could still have in the negotiations – instead of taking a timeout, leaving the room – and then put Andøya at the top. I just notice the fact that they didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1814	Gifts are so many. Sometimes the fright sometimes goes beyond that. If the Workers' Party had wanted to rock Andeya, it would actually have been a majority for that. There's no doubt about it. But it has been a long time since there has been a debate that has been so big as the debate on the Norwegian defence this autumn. And as one who's been dressed in green in the past, I think it's a pleasure that no parties in this hall actually cut the funds for the Defense – although there are different priorities. If this is an awakening that we are in a new time when the bastion defense might crawl a little over us, I think at least it should be mentioned that in many ways it is a brand day, although there are different priorities that are being made. I think that is reassuring in many ways, but there are also some concerns in this. Some of the concerns are that the defence also has a social perspective – such as the fact that the interoperability principles can be applicable not only between defence sectors but also towards civil society. Therefore, I was also wondering what happened to the air station on Andøya. I thought it was strange, as you actually had the opportunity to continue it. It also surprises me, as many have pointed out, this with the helicopters on Bardufoss, which it was actually possible to continue – and when some parties, like the Workers' Party, enter the room, it does not actually continue. Here I think one should have been clear, if one actually wanted it, and I think this is also important with regard to the county power in the north. In any case, Norway should and must be an active contributor to NATO, and then, of course, capacities such as both aircraft and ships are needed. What, in my opinion, is being put on hold in many ways in the LTP that lies ahead of us, which is being adopted today, is the county. I think there are some clear parallels to how you think about land power over time, not least in terms of the public defence that is based on the defence. At best you can say that the land force is sustainability minus after this day, and it worries me, because in many cases we have seen that pushing things ahead of them is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1827	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on most of the long-term plan of defence. I would like to pay tribute both to the President-in-Office and to those who have negotiated this agreement, but I would like to give the greatest commendation and tribute to the government and the Council of State that have presented this long-term plan. It has been presented in a very demanding time, with major changes, and there are major challenges in ensuring our safety and security at home. I've been with the elected representative since 1997 and treated some long-term propositions and messages, but we've never had such a turbulent backwater and unclear waters as we have this time. I think you should reflect a little bit on that, if there's someone who feels that they want to criticize the government for this plan coming too late, and that it doesn't have all the elements in it. At least it's caught up with the time we're up in. Another picture is that this time this defence case actually has interest in the national media – this has not been the case before. Just to give another little picture of how things change: last summer I stood in Pasvik and looked east. We saw nothing – it was so far peaceful and quiet. Three months later, the whole world's eyes are aimed at just that limit. It tells you how hard and twisted it is. Of course, there are some things in the long-term plan that get more attention than others. Andøya is such an example. In February, I was on Andøya and visited them, and determined that I supported Orion’s stay at Andøya. I am not doing that today – simply because I have received a completely different, comprehensive picture of the defence. I fully support a defence assessment to move from Andøya. That's why I'm very happy that you take care of the Andey community as well as you do in the comments that are in the setting, and I also know that they're going to be followed up. There's a lot of cross-political consensus, and then I really don't like the blackjack game that some people are trying to figure out, about who's responsible for the closure of Andeya Airstation. In respect for that society and the opportunity that this will give them in the long term, I expect these fights to stop when this debate has ended here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1838	I must agree with the previous speaker, the representative of Korsberg, when he says that this long-term plan was too late and it did not contain all that a long-term plan should contain. But on the basis of that, I am pleased that a solution was found in which, through negotiations between the government parties and the Labour Party, a whole has come up that has significantly changed in relation to the government. It is important that our long-term plans for defence development endure government shifts and are predictable and stable over time. The fact that we negotiated has also made the Workers' Party have had influence over the content and is also responsible for what is not of the most popular. But I am pleased with the influence that the Labour Party's negotiations have given us in Westfold. Several have all been involved in the music, and for our part it is especially about the marine music. In this context, I refer to the message that the former Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen made, called ‘Culture to Defend’, which really underlined the importance of the defence’s broad culture — including the corps — for the relationship between defence and civil society, and also for the defence will in Norway. With that background, of course, I would have wanted the Corps to be fully funded by the Defence. But when that is said, I am very pleased that the compromise now ensures that the Right and the Advance Party's desire to put down, among other things. The marine music through the agreement, it's stopped. The same applies to the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Horten workshop. The representative Nybakk was concerned about how important it is to our defence ability that the kind of advanced technology, advanced products, are created here as tailor-made for our forces, among other things. abroad, by specialists who have the Defence itself. I can hardly imagine an example of something that is so pointless to propose to privatize for ideological reasons that the Defense itself creates, such as, among other things. should be reserved for military personnel as regards knowledge of our forces such as, inter alia, to the rest of the world. They deliver quality, and I'm very happy that in that area we also stopped the Right and the Advance Party's desire to shut down. It's a quality defense for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1850	I represent a part of the country where the defense stands strong and has hundreds of years of tradition. Trøndelag delivers highly motivated youth to the first-time service, and many choose further service in the Defence. Even I am delighted to have a daughter in the first service in the Maritime Defense now, and she is hugely torn. The defense has accepted well the girls in the historic 97-coal. I am proud of the Defence, of the high level of competence, professionalism and willingness to intervene that characterise the Defence in service for Norway at home and abroad. The defense is rooted in the people. Not least, the Home Office stands out strongly in the districts. That's why the Right in the North Trøndelag is pleased that the Home Guard will be strengthened in the conciliation. At a relatively low cost, it provides post-use of already trained personnel and a strengthening of the total defence and the popular commitment to the Defence, the defence itself. I'm also pleased that the Coast Guard Command is being continued. With our long coastline, marine bases and installations, this unit represents an operational and strategic competence we need more than ever. Trøndelag will also be at the heart of future defences. Through the fighter base on Ørland, the region is already a strategic centre of gravity. The base on Ørland shall be ready to receive the first F-35 fighter aeroplanes during the next year. With the collection of Air Force School and Education activities on the Guards' Forces, the main emphasis is on Air Force activity in Trøndelag. The host country support battalion is strengthened in the long-term plan and allows for increased allied exercise and training in Norway. The agreement on a rotational arrangement for 330 US Marines at Værnes Garnison is thus welcomed. Knowledge and competence on Norwegian matters are essential in order to provide assistance if required. It is not difficult to understand the disappointment and uncertainty of the communities now facing a situation where defence has a smaller role or where bases are laid down. I know a good part about what that can mean. At my home, we had Steinkjersannan camp for over 300 years: exercisable place since the 1600s, in the years after the war and up to the 1990s, the training department IØ III with recruiting school, the Home Office, the Defence Workshop and the Allied Training Centre. Generations of us grew up with a strong identity attached to the Defense, which we carry on with us. We woke up by the morning revelry and slept to the quiet signal, so to speak. Recruitment school was closed in 1994, and 30 August 2002 was split for the last time. It was a sad reaction in the local environment, with a subsequent demanding transition period for the municipality and for us who were local people elected at the time. However, based on our experience in retrospect, I would say that there are also new and exciting opportunities to change. At the same time, it is vital that the big community assumes and assumes responsibilities both in order to keep history and in order to ensure local change and new activity. I'm sure that will happen this time too.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1867	Now we've agreed so much today, so now I thought that we also had a little talk about what we're not entirely in agreement about, and that makes me say a few words about what's going on about outsourcing and privatization. There is a clear distinction between the government parties and the Workers' Party, which is clearly also evident in the setting. When we see what happened to the clean-up team in the defense, there's reason to spend some time on this. The cleaners – at the bottom of the rank ladder – were therefore to be put out of competition. Many of them lose their jobs, many of them lose their pension rights and their previous rights. At the same time, many managers are employed in new projects and new units, both in the Defence and elsewhere – but the cleaners were to be taken. Clearly, there has been no better cleaning. I am quite sure that if a person calculates all the costs of conversion and everything, he/she will not save anything in particular with money on it, probably nothing. But there are also some fundamental questions about what the defense is going to do for its own business, and what it is okay to hire private companies for. I have talked to many military chiefs and been on many defense bases, and over the cup of coffee on two hands often the military leaders say: this is nonsense! It's not our suggestion to put the cleaning away to private, this is a bad solution, and we're very sceptical about letting in private companies to wash and clean the defense facilities. If the government intends to continue as they have done to the cleaning team in other areas of defence, I am very sceptical. In the proposition, it says – I quote a sentence: ‘The defence laboratory services are recommended separately from the defence’s activities and subject to competition’. ‘Exposed’ and ‘exposed’ — what does that mean? Distinguished: Should the Defence Department, or the Ministry of Defence, create a separate unit? Or is it all to be laid down and all the services purchased from private individuals? Divorced and put off competitively: I really don't think the Minister of Defence has an answer to that either. But she has made up her mind, and the government has decided – as we see both in the railway sector and elsewhere. This is an ideological project. It is about making distinctions, putting out competition and privatising as much as possible. Will there be better services? No, no, no. Is it gonna be cheaper? No, probably not. In the defence and defence sectors, there are also some very fundamental questions whether it is just right from a security perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1878	An increasingly competent defence is also calling for us to be able to train and further develop military core competences. It becomes a demanding task to maintain quality when the education system is simultaneously reduced by 20 pst. i.e. 530 million. kr. The attitude is clear that the specificity is to be maintained in the training. For maritime defence, this means that they need marine warriors who are first and foremost trained in good seafaring – becoming familiar with the elements and coping with the tight interaction on board ships, where they experience to a large extent being left to themselves. I guess the same thing will apply to the other defenses. Specificity and military core competence are built from below, with a good distribution between practical training and academic knowledge. I know best the Maritime War School, and they have gained exceptional experience having the new recruits three months at the State Council Lehmkuhl, where they really get to know the cancers and what it means to be left to themselves and, too many, to be at home. When you are safe on your own skills, you also have the best basis for building a common culture and a professional identity, which is also very important. Defence is constantly changing, and close dialogue between the operational part of defence and education is crucial. For the Maritime War School, Haakonsvern is the general inspector of Haakonsvern, who is the operational party, and they are constantly having dialogues about both content and scope, in order to have a good maritime defence. It proposes coordination of all education at the University of Defence, without compromising quality, and it is clear from the remarks in the preamble that it should not result in the formation of ‘a new layer of complex guides and unnecessary bureaucracy’. We're going to follow closely. We realize that this is a demanding task. We know what the head of defense has meant. But we also know what the Marine War School means for competence. When we are going to further develop and create new jobs, the competence of the Maritime War School is absolutely crucial not only for training good leaders but also for the maritime and marine cluster.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1893	I can't stand to comment on what the representative of Elvenes said about the defence he took over. I wonder if he has attended well in the class, or if this was a pure election campaign. I can't take it seriously. I take the floor to talk about alliert training and NATO in the north, and it's important to train in the north. It is said and written that practice and practice are to take place where our soldiers practice and practice daily, but the leaders of the Landpower Study on the Army's Place in Inner Drums and Porsangs give hope for increased activity, also in the exercise area of Porsangs. Of course, security policy and defence policy are two sides of the same coin. I want to focus a little on the important job that the Intelligence Service is doing. The Finnmark coast has, as you know, many facilities that accompany our big neighbour in the north. I think it's reassuring, and it's also an important arena to dampen both fear and uncertainty about what's on the other side. Knowing what the other person is doing, and knowing what we're doing, is a good way to practice security policies in everyday life. The openness of our intelligence work and how it is done has been the subject and has been put on the agenda in several contexts lately. I think it is important to discuss the work of the Intelligence Service. It must be on the agenda, and it is important that people also know why we have a intelligence service. When it comes to the question of what you're working on, and why you're working on it, I think the Intelligence Service deserves to boast of its transparency. We are all reading the focus reports, and Focus 2016 is a good example of transparency. But I think it's important that the intelligence service lowers its foot in knowing who's doing the work and how the work is done. It's a difference of substance. But discussing the work of the E-service is very important. The Prime Minister's presentation earlier today is a good example of just a job that our E-service has done to ensure that both we as politicians and others can make the right decisions, based on good and necessary knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1906	It is a historic day today, and I think the debate we have had has been good. It also underlines that the government is now taking advantage of both a historical economic strengthening of the Defence and all the main lines of the Long-term Plan. In the last two years, the government has moved very much of the activity northwards. We sail, fly and practice more in the north than before. The government has also disabled approx. One hundred million. kr to have a submarine permanently stationed on Ramsund and also to fly more with P-3 Orion. It's important for our situational understanding. This long-term plan, in isolation, will also lead to further relocation of activity and year-on-year activities northwards. We have put in a significant reinforcement of the Army and the Home Guard. It is the greatest strengthening of the Army in more than ten years – it has been further strengthened by the budgetary agreement, and I am pleased with that. There's a lot of things you could handle that that's come up with. I would like to mention one of the things that the representative Sverre Myrli is concerned about, namely the cooperation with others. Over a decade now, I have visited my French, German, American and British colleague. I get a visit from my Swedish colleague for the week. There is a significant increase in interest in Norway and our assessments, particularly in the northern regions. I think that's something we're going to take care of, because we're sitting with a unique competence, much thanks to the very good and long-lasting effort that's been made on the defence side here. In the case of Andøya, I'm the first to say that this was a heavy decision. We have also made this very clear in the long term plan, while at the same time being safe from the figures we have provided. One of the reasons why we are now taking this decision is firstly to give the Andeya community time to change and start the transition, and secondly to allow the Air Force to also start the necessary expansion on Evenes – and conversion. Should, as I said, change the assumptions, the government will, of course, usually come back to that, but there's nothing to it now. We're safe on what we've put forward. I would also like to say that asking questions about the data base also experienced the previous government, linked to several of the decisions taken in the previous long-term plan. This did not mean that the decisions were wrong, but that, of course, questions are always asked from those who disagree with a decision. It's nothing new. As far as education reform is concerned, it is a quality and structural reform that is organisational and is primarily intended to contribute to raising the quality of education we have in defence. In the case of helicopters, I'm referring to what's in the setting, where there's a consensus that you're moving the helicopters to Back, but that you're assuming, as the government has done in the long term, that the time phase of this depends on other helicopter capacities coming into place in the north. This is because Bell helicopters can best be used operationally to strengthen the special forces and provide them with mobility. It is sorely intrusive, and it will strengthen our national preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1923	The centre party is committed to predictability in defence and security policy, our NATO commitments, and that we should have a strong national defence. That is why we have also been committed to following up the heavy decisions made in the 2012 long-term plan, but not least the investment in new fighter aircraft. It is a heavy decision that will require a rise in the grossing-up period after a largeing-up period. We're behind that decision. We support the purchase of new submarines, because we see that Norway needs to have that kind of capacity with our long coast and our large sea areas, just like we need the opportunity to have air rule over our country with good fighter aircraft. We've worked for a broad settlement. For us, it was a broad agreement that we should follow up previous decisions and investment plans for the Army and the Home Office. That is where we feel that we have not come far enough. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get the Right and the Advance Party on it. So we view the land power as one of the losers in this long-term plan. Former Chief of Defense Harald Sunde has stated that this long-term plan adds to the weakest country power Norway has had since the Second World War. He is not a man of great words, but these are his words, and we think it is weak that the government has not met us in terms of the priority we have had of the Army and Home Protection, and that one has created unforeseeable for this important part of our defense. We've been busy with Andøya. What's been our starting point there is that we wanted a shared solution. We've been very uncertain about the cost estimates that have come, and we're afraid that when you look back at the decision that the majority of the population is unfortunately going to make, you'll see that there was a much bigger bill for the defense, not just for the community of Andeya. We had a strong desire for a broad settlement, because we believe it is important for the defence to have predictability, and in the negotiations on the long-term plan, we suggested that one should not decide it now, but have a clearer decision-making basis. There have been so many good and relevant questions about the decision-making basis for Andeya that we wanted to go new rounds before making a final decision, both for us who wanted a split solution, and for the parties who wanted to move to Evenes. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to do so. Because we haven't been able to get the necessary security and tranquillity around the land force, the Army and the dimensioning of Homeland Protection, and because we haven't been able to get through to be more thorough and get a more thoughtful decision on Andeya and Evenes, we can't, unfortunately, be part of the deal that three parties have now agreed on. But on heavy new investments, like fighter planes and submarines, we are side by side with the other parties, because we believe that it is important to have predictability in as much as possible, but unfortunately the three parties that have signed a settlement have not created predictability for our country's land power.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1938	In my previous post, I gave the government the brunt of the long-term plan, and I still do. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, well interpreted me so that I gave criticism that someone thought it was defective. I said in my post that I did not support those who came with that criticism – just so it is clear. Otherwise, I remember the representative Sverre Myrli's posts and the mention of cleaners in the defense. When he says that the cleaners are the ones at the bottom of the ranks, I find it very unfortunate to refer to a profession in that way. I believe that they are doing a good job, and for my part cleaners can be placed at the top of the ladder. Talking about a profession in such a demeaning way, I think it's unfortunate. I would also like to take the opportunity to make a few brief comments on a few points that I did not get touched on in my first post, and this is about a helicopter on Bardufoss, which has been mentioned a lot. I think the agreement that has been reached with regard to helicopters on Bardufoss is a good deal of compromise, because what is crucial for the Defense is the Mobility of the Army. And if'mobility' is a keyword, in my view 'helicopter' is the answer. So I'm looking forward to what's going to be the further development in that case. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about municipalities and communities that have been hosting our defence for a long, long time. I come from Troms and know many of the local conditions well. I just have to commend the job that both municipalities and communities have done for the Defense and that they have been hosts. Of course, there has been a lot of good experience and positiveness, but there has also been a challenge in the defence of large natural resources and large areas that could not have been used for other industrial activities. I just wanted to end with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1949	Elin Rodum Agdestein has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1954	At the bottom of the debate a few comments on the education reform and the organisational changes that come about: I think everyone recognises that the educational institutions of Defence are important and have a role and a tradition as cultural carriers that it is important to take care of further. War schools shall exist where they are today but shall be organised at the Defence College. It is important to maintain the peculiarity of professional training when changing the organisational structure. In the transition that the educational institutions of the defence are now facing, they should be actively involved in the process and should be given a framework and a lever in order to manage the transition in a good way, so that the quality and the specific needs of the professional perspective itself are met in the future. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of building on and ensuring the proximity of operational environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1965	Today, we are dealing with a historic commitment to the Defence. Although some parts of the plan have undoubtedly been demanding, both in the form of professional assessments and in the form of consequences for local communities, the latter must never take precedence over the most important, namely strengthening the country’s defence capabilities. The plan under consideration today is largely in line with the defence manager’s recommendation. In this way a large majority today rests on the professional-military assessments. In that context, I would like to point out something that I have found quite perceptive. When the head of defense thinks we need 175 billion. kr at the top of existing frames over the next 20 years, it says that Stortinget has not had the full overview before. It's serious. Defence budgets and previous defence plans have been dealt with within a narrow framework and with little willingness to give priority. I am therefore very pleased that today's government does not celebrate anything under the carpet, lays down a whole new line and has the will to prioritize the defense. Only in the 2017 government budget does the government propose an increase of more than the sum of the red-green government, for example. would like the defence budgets to increase in their eight years. And this isn't an exception. In the current year, the budget has increased by, for example, 9.4 pst. from the previous year. It is also in quite a contrast to the annual average of 0.2 pst. during the red-green period of government. There is little doubt that this shift in pace strengthens the economic framework of the defence and increases the fighting power. It has been absolutely necessary to meet the needs of the defence, the threat picture and, not least, to strengthen the presence in the north. The government has contributed to the doubling of seagoing time in the north, has also stationed its own submarine in Ramsund for increased presence and accelerates the procurement of new helicopter-bearing and ice-reinforced coastguard vessels by two years. All of this has to be stepped up further. It may not be so strange that the head of research at the FFI has described the plan as perhaps the best since it called the war. Historically high appropriations, new material ensuring the necessary modernisation, and, in some cases, a reform that is followed in a powerful way, shift the centre of gravity of the Defence Northwards. Investment in new fighter aircraft, submarines, surveillance aircraft and long-range air protection will give us a defence with a better presence in our neighbourhoods. We carry out our role as NATO in the north and complement it with strategic capacities in the alliance. I am particularly pleased that there is now found space and a solution for the continuation of the Coast Guard command in Harstad as a strategic capacity. The land force is also given a solid boost to the plan. Already through the 2017 budget and the conciliation we see it. The notified land traffic management, which will of course deal with the Army's mobility, has now been specifically promised. This mobility must be ensured when the land-use study is to be followed by the government and the Stortinge. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1982	Our defense is to defend us against threats. In everything we have of defense branches and military departments, the Home Office is something we in the Center Party don't think should be underestimated. The value of a well-functioning home protection is greater than the sum we spend on Home Security, indicates, which I say both because Home Security provides a lot of defense for the money, and because we should spend more money on Home Security. The reason why Home Security can mobilize quickly is because they're where people live. If the rental of Homeland Solar Data in the North West is moved from Setnesmoen in Raumen to HV-09 in Bergen and HV-12 on Värnes, it will weaken important factors such as proximity and local knowledge, which can be entirely decisive in a crisis situation. It is nice that the government party, along with the Workers' Party, did not go in to drop HV-11 on Setnesmoen now. However, it is alarming that these three parties do not provide a single guarantee for HV-11, but rather push the decision to after the election next year. Then the Landmaktaugning is to be handled in the Stortinget and future to the Army and the Homemaktwerb is to be decided. We in the Center Party have always been clear that we will carry on HV-11, and that the Army and Homeland Protection in general need a strengthening. What we've seen lately is a formidable mobilization for Homeland Protection from a lot of people. It is important that this commitment does not weaken until the next time things come up. The central part will continue to be on for more means of defense and for a stronger protection of the world, but what we know about the government is that they've already suggested putting down the Setnesmo. So we know what they want to do. There is thus every reason to believe that if the Right Party and the Advance Party return to government in the next fall, they will use the Landmaktuitgreiing as a good opportunity to drop HV-11. Serious events can occur in all parts of Norway, and when the Hurricane ‘Dagmar’ happened in the north-west of Rome in 2011, HV-11 made a formidable effort during the clean-up, both in Møre and Romesdal and in Sogn and Fjordane. This event showed how correct it is to have the Home Office in the area, and that the Home Office must be decentralised and nation-wide, in practice means that we have to pass on HV-11. The centre party is busy ensuring defense and preparedness where people live. If the government doesn't get its centralization policy going on indefinitely, it's still going to live in the whole of our long-range country. Defense and Homeland Protection are fighting for our security, and in order for them to continue, it's important that we get a huge majority after the next elections that will be very good for Defence and Homeland Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e1998	The Committee stresses that ICT activities in defence are consolidated on Jørstadmoen and will have this as a future main base. This is a follow-up to the policies of the Stoltenberg government, and I am very happy that the good work continues, and that this is the basis for what is being treated today. Everything facilitates a strengthened cyber defence in this way, and this is, of course, also very positive for our part of the country. I would like to stress that it is very important that we quickly carry out what the Storting today unanimously proposes. I am sure that a local person will contribute to this, including: as regards building mass and infrastructure. Here I know that the municipality of Lillehammer is proactive towards potential investors, and with the positive mood there is around this in Lillehammer and Oppland, I am absolutely sure that it will not be difficult for private investors to join. What is happening today, and underlined in the context of Jørstadmoen, is also very important for the NTNU and the cyberenvironment at Gjøvik, which is one of the foremost in Europe – an environment that has also been crucial for Jørstadmoen to be in its current position. So in my homelands, there should be no shortage of either high competence, recruitment or investment where necessary. I am also very pleased that the HV-school will continue at Dombås. It's good learning, it's good for the defense, and it's reasonable. I am not least very impressed by how well one has taken care of the premises and used them to the maximum, i.e. the premises that are from World War II. The howemo at Lillehammer has a long tradition in the Norwegian defense and has done and, I would also add, would have done a good job further, but I realize that it has not been possible to keep the Hovemo in that thought and the plans that one now has managed to get together. But basically I want to say that we in Uppland well have every reason to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2009	I've grown up with a NATO doctrine that told us to defend the kingdom from Skibotn and south, the so-called Lyngen doctrine. I myself have been in Defense, and I have also been a politician and rigged a long-term plan that said we should defend Norway in Libya and Afghanistan. And now I'm working on a long-term plan that says we're going to defend Norway from the Russian border and southwards, including the land areas of Finnmark and including all of our marine areas. I am very pleased with that. Then it is important that we ask ourselves a question in the preparatory work: what kind of defence do we need now? Then it's important that we've decided to fly more north. We're going to have a modern Air Force, and we're going to fly more north. Then it's important that we decide to have a modern sea above and below water that sails more north. Then it's important that we think about when we look at our army. Do we have an army that is capable of increasing defence capabilities in the north as well? Then it's important that we ask ourselves, how are we going to use Home Security? Is the Home Guard, as it is screwed in hops today, suitable to create defense power, when, among other things, they. cannot communicate with the Army with the equipment given to them. So we've been presented with a proposition that takes all of these questions into account, and that gives a lot of good answers, that gives good speed, that takes the most important steps now, and that tells us to do a land-use study so that we can rig an army and a shelter we can be served with in the future. Regardless of the study, we are now starting the creation of a hunting company at the garrison in South Varanger, which gives us the defense force we need there. No matter what it is, we have given priority to the Armor Battalion in Brigade North. Regardless of that, we have strengthened the management of Homeland Protection so that we can lift them up in Troms and Finnmark. And for the next four years, we're planning to strengthen the Land Defense by about six billion. kr. The direction of the long-term plan and the sum of these efforts gives us an ability to defend Norway in a modern time, and it gives us an ability to show that we also defend the northernmost part of Norway, which is Finnmark, and all the enlarged sea areas we have been given since we dealt with a long-term plan last.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2020	With this long-term plan, the development continues towards a more specialised defence where selected weapon branches are prioritised and where the dependence on allied support becomes more striking. We are now taking new steps away from what has characterized Norwegian defence policy, a wide-ranging defence with self-defence. The most extreme features of the government's arrangement have been stopped in the comparison by adjusting different cuts, but the line is the same. It is paradoxical that SV, who has not participated in the competition to be the defence party, provides alternative budgets year after year when we are investing more in army, marine and coastal defence than the government proposes. And in response to the government’s proposal for a long-term plan, we have proposed several changes – such as strengthening rural power, especially in Northern Norway. The Land Powers Study, which is announced in the long-term plan, exposes investment in land power and pushes important decisions forward in time. SV believes that it is irresponsible and in practice a deprioritisation of the country power compared to the other arms sectors. We propose to strengthen the defence of our coast, especially in North Norway. We will prioritize a faster modernisation of the Coast Guard, maintain the capacity of the Coast Guard Command, maintain the Sjöheimevertet. We want to strengthen preparedness and capacity to face terrorist events. We want to raise the stakes on new threats through good surveillance, intelligence and greater cyber defence efforts. And yes, we want to reduce the number of fighters Norway will order. Kampflya is a huge investment, and both purchasing and operating costs have already exceeded original calculations. Norway can hold a strong fighter aircraft with far fewer planes than it is scheduled to, and it provides room for investment and investment in other areas of Norwegian defence. There has been a lot of difficulty in understanding the long-term plan: moving the Bell helicopter, postponing the necessary investment in equipment and moving the inspector-general to Rygge, to mention something. Something has been changed through the negotiations, other than this. The shutdown of Andøya Air Station is one of the things that has not been changed. The argument from Huitfeldt is incomprehensible. Even's power collection is what's now left as an argument. And the cost argument has been removed, I'm recording, maybe because savings in time based on uncertain estimates have also not been activated in the Workers' Party. Of course, the best in the world is not flying in itself. We have the same Orion fly as Pakistan, New Zealand and Australia, but we have the best people, and a move will mean a great weakening of the environment of competence we have there, and the transition phase will be expensive – this at a time when the world's most important operational resource in the north is really needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2031	Swearing Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2037	It was Øyvind Korsberg's comment to me and my mention of the cleaners in the defense that made me take the floor. Talk about turning the matter upside down! The Workers' Party and I support the cleaners – the cleaners who do a great job are happy about their job, go to work every day and would like to continue. Me and the Workers' Party would keep them as employees in the Defense. I speak to the cleaners – and the job they do – every day, and that is why they should still be in the defense. Korsberg has probably not talked to so many of the cleaners involved, but he should do so, and then he can ask them if they are most in agreement with the government and the Korsberg, or if they are most in agreement with the Workers' Party and me on the issue of the competitive outsourcing of the cleaning team in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2044	Once we've laid out the long-term plan, it's had a very clear internal logic: a structure where we build the ground wall first, making sure we can increase the activity in the next phase, and then we're going to go into the big investments. It also means that we have carefully agreed and evaluated the level of profitability we have in actually converting the funds that are now being invested in the Army, in the Home Office, in the Maritime Defence and in the Air Force. I must say to the representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes that I do not fully understand the reasoning that we need faster modernisation of the Coast Guard, and that is why we are opposed to the long-term plan. The entire long-term plan just attracts investment in new helicopter-bearing vessels for the Coast Guard. We're doing it by two years in time and we're also adding money to it. That's in order for us to get that capacity in place faster, and we need to modernise the vessels we have. The long-term plan no longer makes us dependent on allied support, but we depend on alliert support. We've been since 1949. Then we made a very clear choice, and what we're doing with this long-term plan is strengthening our own defence capabilities, while also contributing more materially to the alliance. This long-term plan has been exceptionally well received by our closest allies. I'll take that as a very good sign. We're showing direction, we're betting, and we're doing part of the heavy strategic choices that are needed to build our own defence capabilities and build NATO's defence capabilities. The representative also believes – there are several people who have been involved in this – that in the match purchase the price is exceeded. The unit price of the fighter planes goes down. The cost of currency has been unfortunate, but it's not about the price of the planes, and in addition to the long-term plan, we have now proposed a so-called Block Buy. that we buy more planes at the same time, also to reduce the price. We have thoroughly informed about this in the budget proposal. So finally, related to cleaners, there's a lot to say about it, but we've chosen a solution that came from the defense, where we've now transferred the business to the cleaners who were employed in the defense. We have protected them in 60 years of age and older who have 15 years of longevity or more – they are still employed in Defence. 222 cleaners have been transferred to their businesses and retained their pay terms and conditions in the ISS. 142 of them are permanently employed, 80 were temporarily employed, and so we will save about in 2016. 52 million. kr. It's flying hours, sailing hours and practice days. We want to make the best use of the money, so that we get the most operational ability out of the money we spend in the defense. And then, of course, everyone who is going to work in that type of job must have a security clearance. Of course, so do these cleaners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2055	I would like to thank you for a good discussion, but there is something about the overall defence concept that I think cannot be contradicted. Because it's been claimed from this pulpit that the defense we're now putting up with is more about deterrence than before. That's not right. The concept underlying this defence plan is exactly the same as that that has marked the Norwegian defence since World War II – both deterrence and tranquillity. I'm glad there's a lot of excitement about the fighter planes. One lot will reverse the 2012 Decision, another one will push the phase-in. But that still means that there is a great deal of upsurge in the large investments that are crucial for us to be able to control the Norwegian territory. I'm surprised at those people who say they're going to push the surveillance planes. This is one of the most central capacities we have in NATO, and I think it is absolutely vital that we do this job ourselves. We depend on having national control over our own territories, so we also want new planes. I also disagree with those who ask questions about technological defence. We need to have the technological takeover. If we look at the number of people, NATO has a big takeover today, but we see that other countries are getting back on the technological front. It's absolutely crucial that we bring the defense into a new era. I think it's kind of nice to look at Right Representatives here, who on the one hand are trying to say that it's a change of pace, and on the other hand take credit for the additions that have been put into this plan, but I see this as a positive competition in which we compete to use as much as possible in defense. It's a competition I'm in. On the other hand, I am not involved in the competition for the most difficult structure. It's very devastating for the Defense in the future. There are many who have protested against some base closures. It's always like that, but it's necessary. To say to the communities that are now in the midst of demanding transformations, that we are taking a rematch in front of conversion, I believe is a wrong signal. If we are to take care of the future of these communities, we must invest a lot of money in the transformation. There are many municipalities in Norway that have undergone demanding changes in the defence sector, and those who are now undergoing these transformations will also be helped by the large community. I thank you for a very good discussion. There is a great deal of agreement on the main lines of Norwegian defence policy, and never have so many magnificent representatives stood behind a long-term plan as will be the case in voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2070	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2075	It's interesting to listen to a lot of good articles. We may disagree about a lot, but we're also talking about a lot, and it's important for our nation. However, I could not end the debate without commenting on the last speaker, who is amazed that one can push on surveillance planes. The same batch that without delay pushes the land power into a distribution goes for investment in new surveillance aircraft. Where are the arrangements? They accept that Norway, as the only NATO country, needs air protection to continue on the And Islands, i.e. the MPA base. Where is the statement about what has been presented to us? Why can a push some sectors of the Defense into a distribution, while others accept one over the table, without knowing either the price, the time or the implications. That is amazing – but thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2080	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2096	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2105	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the matter. The management was stopped before summer because of many things that were to be handled in the committee, and she was signed up for now in the fall. Proposals ask that a number of different measures be assessed to increase the competence of municipalities and that work on a competence plan be based on: a workers' expectation that they will stay professionally up-to-date an expectation of the municipality as an employer that it will facilitate professional development and further training; Close contact between municipalities and research and education institutions A joint committee points out that the Council of State agrees with the proposers that good and proper competences are important for the quality of the services provided to citizens by the municipalities, and that it is crucial to work with the development of competences locally through an active labour market policy to contribute to development and improvement. The majority of the Committee points out that the Council of State does not agree with the need to introduce a reform of competence, as presented by the proposers. The majority also suggest that the Council of State believes that some of the measures proposed by the representatives will lead to significant State-level detailed management, as many of the measures contained in the draft representative are designed as requirements. The same plurality also indicates that the municipalities themselves are responsible for pursuing a good employer policy towards their employees, which includes: means strategic competence development based on local needs. The government party is pleased to be able to demonstrate that the government has responded to the need for a reform of competence through various measures of competence in most areas, and that the proposals from the opposition are already far on the way. This shows that we have a government that has high ambitions for the Norwegian knowledge society. That's also why knowledge is one of the government's eight bet areas. Competence and knowledge are crucial in building the country for future and ensuring the quality of services to its inhabitants. To this end, the government already announced in the 2015 government budget the development of a national strategy on competence policy that will contribute to a targeted development of citizens’ competences. The government and the state are taking various measures to facilitate increased competence, but local authorities are responsible for having the right skills to carry out their tasks. That's the way it will be in the future. To meet the major challenges facing society in the future, there is a need for a knowledge leap. An important measure proposed by the government is a long-term plan for research and higher education for the period 2015-2024. One of the priorities is the renewal of the public sector and better and more efficient welfare services. Increased scope of tasks, more specialised tasks, increased quality of services and increased expectations from citizens set great demands on municipalities for a strong professional environment and adequate capacity and competence. The government emphasises that citizens should be guaranteed a good and equivalent service provision regardless of where they live in the country. Here are some examples of the efforts made by the government: In 2014, the Ministry of Knowledge presented the Teacher's Promise – on a team for the knowledge school. Through this plan, the government will implement a considerable level of competence for teachers, which will help students to gain more knowledge and thus better opportunities. The government follows the competence strategy Competence for the future kindergarten, as a debt for the period 2014-2020. The aim of the strategy is to increase the competence of all those working in kindergartens and to increase the status of work in kindergarten. The government also sent a notice to Stortinget in 2015 on the primary health services in the future. With this message, the government is providing a clear policy direction for a modern municipal health and care service, which is equipped for the needs of the future. Competence is a fundamental premise for forward-looking services and efficient resource use. The Government’s competence and recruitment plan for the municipal care services, the Competence Plan 2015, has the main objective of contributing to ensuring adequate competent and stable staffing and developing competences, services and the professional environment in the care sector. In addition to this, the government has also worked to ensure that municipalities have their planning skills, both in terms of social planning and spatial planning, as well as a professional career. As is clear from the point of view, we have a government that works with increased knowledge and competence in all areas. There is therefore no need for a reform of competences, as the proposers ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2161	Several older, increased immigration, climate change, new technologies – all of this makes new demands on municipalities to keep thinking about innovation and improvement. Municipal employees each day put down a formidable effort in Norwegian communities, but in the future, municipalities will need a lot more staff to provide all the services we need, and in addition, as a society, we will make even higher demands on the knowledge and competence that employees need in health, care, education and technical subjects. That's why if we're going to get ready for the future, we're going to have to bet on the employees. In a society where changes will come even faster in the years to come, there is a need for a heavier focus on lifelong learning as such in the Norwegian community, but we want to start in the municipalities. We want municipalities to be learning organisations, where professional replenishment and lifelong learning are a natural part of working life. That is why we have proposed the reform we are discussing today. We don't want state detail management, which is the right-hand excuse to say no to this. We want this reform to be designed, implemented and financed in close cooperation between municipalities, employees and the state. Tripartite cooperation is a jewel in the Norwegian model, and we must build on it also when developing future municipalities and communities. We want this reform of competence to be based on three pillars. Firstly, employees must meet with the expectation of keeping up to date on a professional basis. Secondly, the municipality as an employer must facilitate professional development and continuing training. Thirdly, there must be closer contacts than today between municipalities on the one hand and research and education institutions on the other. In our proposal, we point to a number of concrete measures to make municipalities learning venues. Among other things, we point out: the need to draw up competence plans for all activities in the municipality, and that all employees without completed secondary school receive an offer of vocational training in combination with work. We need to make greater efforts to provide adequate apprenticeships, and it is also important that municipalities provide sufficient practical places for training relevant to the municipality. New technologies are essential to equip well-being services for the future. This is why we want IT and welfare technologies to be part of both the vocational training and the provision of continuing training, in order to ensure adequate skills and thus to contribute to the rapid integration of new technologies into the everyday life of health and care. I have mentioned cooperation between municipalities and educational institutions, and we have pointed out several specialisation measures in order to be able to work both in the field of practice and in the field of research at the same time. There are many possibilities for closer cooperation. Our point is that while research and the use of research-based knowledge is part of the mission of the specialist health service, for which health companies are responsible, this is not as systematic in the municipalities, and we think it should do something about it. It is in the municipalities the welfare is created, and there are good, competent employees doing the job. We want to give them the opportunity to do the job even better in order to meet the high demands we make on them. I am disappointed that the government is so defensive in this matter. They frame many individual actions and efforts in some disciplines that are isolated and individually good, but we need an overall approach to this. It seems that the government believes that structural changes are the answer to all the challenges of the municipalities, but it is not. Reasonable organisation makes sense, but the municipalities also depend on enough money and skilled professionals to do the job, and at both points the government lends itself back instead of making the most necessary investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2178	Thank you very much to the case spokesperson for a good review of the case. Let me start by refuting the claim to the representative Pedersen that we are leaning back and just thinking that structural changes are the answer to everything. Had a hearing the post of the case spokesperson, one had recorded that he listed a number of offensive measures that this government has taken to increase its competence. We see that we're going to provide good services to the residents of Norway, it's both about having the right structure and about having enough professionals and the right professionals and a smart organization to provide good services, so we're not very close to it that we think structure is the answer to everything. I thought it was good that the representative Pedersen finally acknowledged in his post that there is some competence in Norwegian municipalities, and I thought it was important to recognise that competence from this talking room as well. When we're on our way with the committee, and otherwise too, there's one thing we're left with with the impression of, and that's that Norwegian municipalities are composed of extremely good professionals on an incredibly wide range of complicated tasks – everything from kindergarten to school, to care for the elderly and to specialised laws they're supposed to manage. This essentially solves the local authorities very well, precisely because they are concerned that the quality of the services is best if they have good employees. In addition, municipalities know that they are in a competitive position with the private sector and that if they are to be attractive employers, they need to focus on empowerment. So my impression is that Norwegian municipalities are good at being good employers. I don't want to leave it with the impression that now a government competence reform is needed because it's so bad. It's good in the municipality of Norway. In both small and large municipalities, a capable people who burn for their subject, we've seen that on a number of occasions. I read a report that the previous government ordered from Fafo, which was delivered in 2013, and which told me a lot about the challenges of Kommune-Noreg, based on interviews with both advisers, spokesmen and others. It turns out that this field is important, so I am very happy that this government has done a lot. I'm not going to bother to list everything you've done, once again, because that list is quite a long one, but I can name it as one example and the Teacher's promise, which this government has really seen more on the agenda than any government before. We have also had a competence plan for the future kindergarten, and we have a number of schemes. I want to spend the last few minutes staying a little bit with a system that I think is a little bit interesting. We know that the interaction reform imposes greater competences on the care of the elderly in a municipality than before. Several of the tasks that the specialist services took care of in the past are now largely uplifted to the municipal sector, so that being at a hospital today versus a few years ago is two different things. There the government consulted on a separate scheme for nurses to take a master's degree in advanced clinical care, as it is called, just to improve the quality of the proper area. We put in the year of 21 million. kr and had believed that there would be an extremely large number of municipalities that now saw that they could get the state involved in raising the competences of the elderly. Then I have to say that we were a little disappointed, many, when we saw what the municipalities actually applied for, because it was a lot less than what was asked for. So if I can get permission, I'm going to call on the Labour Party to put this on the agenda, talk to its own 200 speakers and ask them to use the arrangements that exist before they initiate new ones from the state. The budget for next year has been reduced to 6.5 million. SEK to the same scheme, because the applications from the municipalities were so few. The need is great, we know, so one should definitely benefit from the arrangements that exist, instead of asking for new ones. Because there is something certain, there is a great need in Norwegian municipalities to increase the skills of the elderly care community, and then you should not say no to the state, which provides 21 million. kr to rotvel. Finally, I thought it was ironic that the Labour Party, which has more than 200 spokesmen, should take the initiative that the State, with the Progress Party and the Right in the head, should take greater responsibility. When, in fact, the municipalities are primarily responsible for developing their own competences and conveying them, a job should be done in all the municipalities in Norway rather than asking the State to take an even greater responsibility, in addition to what the State already does through many schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2195	The representatives of the Labour Party are promoting here a proposal for a reform of competences for municipalities, proposing 20 different measures that one believes must be included in the reform process. From the centre party we are positive to many of these measures. It is important to work on empowerment in the municipal sector. It is important that the intake of apprentices increases, and that through research we get a better understanding of how to develop the municipal welfare offer – just to mention some of the proposals. I agree with the proposers that the municipalities are still faced with new demands. Governing a municipality means that both politicians and employees must have a culture to keep thinking about innovation and improvement. My impression is that the municipalities recognise this, and that competence development and renewal are working well. But just as in state activities, there are also differences in municipal activities. I therefore do not disagree with the rapporteurs that there is a need for national measures to promote innovation and improvement. In my opinion, however, and in the opinion of the Centre Party, the proposal for a representative we have is being discussed, too far in state detail management of the municipalities. The many proposals that are being promoted will, if implemented, contribute to the local responsibility of national responsibility. It is, as the Storting may have registered, not every day I agree with the Council of State. But here I believe the Council of State has a significant point when he points out that the municipalities have a separate employer responsibility that needs to be taken care of locally. KS – the central association of municipalities – are good support players for municipalities in innovation work and competence building. Fixed consultation procedures have been developed between KS and the departments. My reservation against a state-run competence reform for municipalities does not mean that I believe the state should be restrained from promoting expectations for the local government sector in the areas covered by the proposal for a representative. The State governs the local government sector through legislation, regulations and budgets. If we from national teams feel that action needs to be taken in a particular area, we have the means to get it done. It is important that we use predictable control instruments. I think we have repeatedly recorded that the local government sector experiences state control signals such as diffuse, for example. by statements and circulars more than by law, regulation and budgetary means. Of course, the central party sees it as important that the state and local government sector interact to achieve national targets. However, we are concerned that the means we use to achieve the objectives are as much as possible in line with the formal distribution of responsibilities between the levels of government in the public sector. The centre party is therefore promoting an alternative proposal in which we ask: ‘the government, in cooperation with the KS and the employee organisations, shall assess the implementation of a competence reform for the municipalities’. As the Stortinget is aware, in the period 2011 to 2015, tripartite cooperation between the government, the local government sector and the employee organisations, called the ‘Sammen om een kämmen kommune’, was carried out with the aim of addressing the main challenges in the municipal sector. It is by model from this project that we believe cooperation on skills development should be developed. The «Sammen om een kampe kommune» project has recently been evaluated on behalf of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The report is a useful reading. It concludes that the project was successful and delivered positive results in many areas. The evaluation report says, among other things: local anchoring of the project and good cooperation between trust-elected, administrative and elected members of the public appear to be a success factor in the work. In the evaluation, it is stated that: ‘the municipalities themselves, which are at the heart of their own problems, have the best prerequisites to know how they should work on this and how best to use resources to achieve results’. In specific areas, the report shows that the participating municipalities have had an overall reduction in sick leave compared to other municipalities. Similarly, municipalities have worked full-time and part-time and achieved good results. I am in favour of the intentions behind the proposal and of many of the concrete measures, as indicated in the vote. My reservation is that the municipalities have a separate responsibility to organise their work and to follow up the government-given framework, laws, regulations and administrative provisions. A competence reform for municipalities must therefore, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be established as a cooperation between national authorities, municipalities and employee organisations and not adopted as a state-run reform. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2233	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2238	It was a good contribution by the representative, Mr. Greni. I agree that this is a lot of good intentions, a lot of good intentions, but I also believe, like previous speakers, that this must come from the municipalities themselves in many ways and not as a state order. We have a community reform that embraces quite a few of the good intentions contained in the proposal, and it is a little surprising – when we debate this – that those who make the proposal have not seen it and wholeheartedly supported the local reform that actually takes place, but at the same time allows the municipalities to have more control over it themselves, and that it is not a state requirement. They are important to the elements on the list, because I believe there is a responsibility on the local governments around the country, because local democracy must bring this up. But here, of course, it is important that we also have a good enough framework for the municipal sector, which the government also needs to notice, because it will provide opportunities for filling up skills and what this proposal calls a reform, but which I think should come from below. Then it's like the municipalities don't necessarily scream for more problems. They need tools to handle the tasks they have per day. There's also an important part in this. But through increased autonomy and stronger municipalities, which have also been the goals of the Left through both the regional reform and the municipal reform, I see what is contained in the proposal as a clear desire for the detailed management of Norwegian municipalities from this room, and I am against that. I want a living government with a functioning local democracy. In this way, this proposal, which was also well expressed by the Centre Party, goes in the wrong direction. I think in many ways this is going to be the wrong medicine in relation to what the municipality is now up to. Of course, one should also wish that the Centre Party had been whole-hearted in terms of a municipal reform that ensures much of this – including the local anchoring. It might come eventually, you'll get hope. But in any case, today we are going to vote against this together with the Christian People's Party and the Right. We believe that this is a detailed management that the Norwegian municipal structure does not need any more. We need a greater degree of freedom for Norwegian municipalities, not more detailed management.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2245	First, I would like to address the proposal in the setting that SV and the Workers' Party are behind. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised at the debate here now. I understand that this proposal is a wish for the state to enable the municipalities to meet the requirements of their competence in the future, and it is referred to almost as an infringement of Norwegian municipalities. No, this is to see how the state can do its job to make this possible. We can discuss local economy, for example. – it's an important piece of this. But now there was a new SSB report today, which shows which professions we need in the future, and a lot of them are in the municipal sector. Then you have a lot of good play from the government, but one of them, which is referred to here, is skills enhancement schemes that are not being used. Yeah, then maybe they're not good enough. There may be a need to review this work also by the state, globally, and that's what this is all about. And now I hear you need a strategy. Yeah, it's the same thing for me what you call it, if you call it strategy, plan, reform or what it is. The point here is that you need to look through what the government is doing so that the municipalities now get the skills they need, and help with it as a good partner. It is also important to look at the evolving governance culture, and it is about trust. I have taken too many employees in both municipal and state activities who have competence but who are not allowed to use it properly, because the governance structures are such that it is neither time nor law. It's not allowed to say anything, for example. when they perceive that something is not professionally sound. They are not allowed, nor do they have time to use their professionalism in carrying out their tasks. It's a serious problem that we've got a governance culture that counts some things that can be counted, but that doesn't count some of the most important functions that municipalities have. It has been said that the municipality is a gripped women with black belts in cleaning up things that are difficult for people, and I agree with that, and some of those things are not possible on an Excel sheet. But it's important, and there's a lot of professionalism behind it. Then it has been shown to the project «Saman om ein better kommune». There were a lot of good results from it, and one of the results is, among other things. that we have to make sure that people get a full job, a full job. We can't believe that people are going to take college for years and then end up with 18.3 pst. position, and believe that we can recruit people for such things. It doesn't matter, so we have to do this. The second is apprentices. This report from the SSB shows that there are very many of these professions that are skilled professionals. At that time, municipalities must be given the opportunity to accept apprentices, and one of the proposals that SV is now promoting in the budget is among others. to give the counties the opportunity to increase their apprenticeship grants to the municipalities, because they have only wage costs and not earnings on the apprentices, and they need many more apprentices to get skilled workers. It's an important thing that we have to look at. I was a little surprised that there was no more support for SV's comments on apprentices, because there is also the Riksrevision's points, and that is who we have referred to. It's in them that I've gone in and seen that there's a lack in how to work with apprentices to get in enough skilled people. Then there's also a point here about ICT and welfare technology. There is reason to remember that when there are now large businesses, including on the part of the state, that are flagging out such things – about how we are going to work on this in the future to ensure professional competence in the municipalities, in the state, which we own, so that we do not become dependent on just placing this in another country and seafaring is beyond competence. It's scary. And why should we, why should we not have those jobs in the municipal sector and in Norway? Finally, I would like to mention the point about grant schemes for local study centres to ensure access to lifelong learning across the country. It is perhaps one of the most important measures I would like to encourage the Minister of Municipalities to support even more strongly. That people can fill their skills while they are at work, through the life cycle where they live, in cooperation with their employer, who may be the municipality, is one of the most important things we can contribute to, and today's study funding scheme does not do well to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2264	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2270	The starting point for this debate is the very best. There is a common recognition that municipalities carry large parts of the welfare community on their shoulders. We depend on good management, good competence and good vocational training in municipalities. It is also a recognition that Kommune-Norge is facing significant challenges in the coming years. Only in order to maintain the current level of welfare services must municipalities employ 60,000 new people in health, care, kindergarten and school towards 2026. This means that we are facing significant challenges. Therefore, the government attaches great importance to promoting innovation across the public sector. Last night, together with KS, we put forward a toolbox to help municipalities eliminate time thieves, so that municipal employees can have more time to solve important tasks for the population and spend less time on unnecessary bureaucracy. Municipalities can learn a lot from each other, and we still have a way of promoting innovation in the public sector. Nevertheless, when we do not recommend a reform of competence in line with the opposition's proposal, it is partly because the Ministry, like the Central Party and the Cooperation Parties in the Stortinget, believes that the opposition here goes too far in state detail management of the municipalities. It is important to stress the autonomous responsibilities of municipalities. On the other hand, we agree that cooperation between the parties is an important instrument. We have carried out the joint for a better municipality, to which several have referred, and we now have an intention agreement with the parties on a new development programme for the municipalities. The work for this will start in 2017, and then we will discuss the content of that programme. Furthermore, it is also true that several have pointed out that we are in the midst of a major community reform. One important objective of this is to strengthen the professional environments of municipalities, so that more citizens can get better services where they live. So far, more than 80 municipalities have mutual decisions. More than one in four people will live in a new municipality from 2020. This means that in many municipalities the trade unions are getting stronger. It is an important step towards improving skills and services for citizens. The community has demonstrated, through its reports in the community reform, that there are significant challenges in many municipalities. It is particularly linked to vulnerable professional environments. It shows that we still have a way to go. It is also important to stress that important programmes are being implemented to increase the competence of municipalities. We're implementing a significant teacher's promise for the school. We implement Competence Plan 2020, which is linked to vocational education in the health and social field, and the Health Care Strategy21, which will also contribute to greater competence in municipalities. These are programmes that cover the areas where the opposition has been concerned, without us going too far in detailing the municipalities. So finally, I also agree with the opposition that municipal economy is important for municipalities to develop the quality of their services. In this respect, the opposition should also welcome the fact that municipalities have had a greater room for action, greater growth, during this four-year period than they had in the previous four-year period. A good community economy is a good basis for building up well-being. We need to make demands on the municipalities and have programmes that help them to improve quality, and not least, through the municipal reform, we provide a good basis for strong professional environments, for the best for welfare services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2298	The councils started off well with the first sentences – he should. In short, proposers would like the state to provide some positive assistance to municipalities in order to solve one of the main challenges facing municipalities — even within the Council of State itself — and it is to ensure that employees have the right and proper competence. As rapporteur for many years, I know that it is a challenge to ensure that the competence of employees is upgraded and maintained, and it is important to check out with employees – employee organisations – what is right and important to invest in. Where are you going to put your bet? I record here that we are talking about this effort, the grants for nurse training, and that there are municipalities that have not applied for it. Can the Council of State answer whether he has checked out with the municipalities if it was this municipality that requested in advance? Was it this municipality’s desire to be given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2307	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we should bet on building skills both in the state and in the municipality. We also agree that cooperation between parties is important. With regard to the specific programme, the representative also knows that it is in another department, so the question of the extent to which it has been checked out with the parties must be almost addressed to the responsible State Council. What I referred to in my post is that we have a commitment agreement with the social partners, including KS, to develop a new cooperation programme, and we're going to start the discussion at the beginning of next year about what's going to be the content of it. Then I am absolutely sure that competence will be one of the questions that will be discussed in the further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2314	In the Council's reply to the Committee, reference is made, inter alia, to: the recent completion of the ‘Sammen on a better municipality’ project and the dialogue between the Ministry and the parties on a possible continuation. I see that, recently, after ordering from the department, an evaluation of the ‘Sammen on a better municipality’ was carried out and the report shows good results. A total of 110 municipalities participated in the programme, and they had sick leave, full time, part time, competence, recruitment and reputation as a topic. The municipalities worked together in smaller network groups, which were structured according to the themes the municipality wanted to prioritise. In the Center Party, we take a positive view of this type of tripartite cooperation and believe it has been instructive and useful for all parties. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State actively contribute to the continuation of the ‘Sammen on a better municipality’ programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2319	The parties with which we cooperate, LO, the Academics, UNIO, YS and KS, agree that the programme should be terminated in line with the progress that had been made. This is why it has now been evaluated, and the report shows that there are some good experiences and some slightly variable experiences. So the parties agree that we should start a program now, and it is related to the municipalities that have agreed to build a new municipality. I myself had the pleasure of meeting about 300 representatives of the over 80 municipalities who are going to join us, at the Gardermoen a few weeks ago. It is important that those municipalities learn from each other and inspire each other. So it's like this, as I pointed out in my post, that we have an intention agreement to start a new program, and we're going to talk to the social partners at the beginning of 2017 about what that program will contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2324	When making arrangements to raise your skills, it's important that you do it in the right order and not as it is now done on the teacher's side, where you raise your demands, so that there are fewer students. That means that there are actually more unskilled teachers, at least for a period of time. There's no good way to do it. I could imagine asking the Council of State about apprentices in the municipalities. Municipalities do not earn their apprentices, as private enterprises do. That means they only have wage costs. They also have many practical tasks related to other professional professions, which make it quite a burden in health care homes, kindergartens and schools as well as that they do not have earnings but only pay. Does the Council of State see that there may be a need to look at the grants to apprentices in the municipalities in order to ensure that they actually have the wage resources to absorb the required number?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2331	Fortunately, we agree on the importance of investing in apprentices, and the public sector must implement an apprenticeship. We do that in the state. Through departments and directorates, we have increased the investment of apprentices. We have new programmes to develop new subjects within the state. And we also demand public procurement that those who are going to deal with the public must also hire apprentices. Then I received signatures from most of the first candidates in connection with the municipal elections in 2015, where the municipal politicians committed themselves to bringing in more apprentices. Many municipalities do a good job. Whether we have special arrangements relating to apprentices, or whether the municipalities are to cover this within their financial framework, it could be a discussion about. The important thing is that the municipalities are betting on apprentices, and I see it going the right way – at least in many municipalities, but many still have a way to get up to the level you should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2338	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2345	In the proposal there are a number of points that should have aroused enthusiasm also in the governing parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. So it hasn't happened, and you can think a little bit about which glasses you have chosen here to read the proposal with. There are more here with the rapporteur's background, and at least for my part was part of the rapporteur's rule to discuss with employees and their organisations various issues that emerged and that employees were particularly concerned about. Development of competence was at least in my municipality many times such a theme, which came on the table when we had these meetings and discussions, and then there was not always money on it. Of course, the economy is an essential part of being able to provide staff with skills. There must be temporary workers, and there can be expenditure on education, travel, etc. However, it is also possible to have attention around employees’ opportunities to fill professionally, without the large costs. The document contains a number of different proposals – on the development of skills plans for all the enterprises in a municipality, on the completion of higher education for those who do not have it, on getting more people to take professional letters, etc. There are only some of the proposals contained in the document that we are asking to be assessed in a reform of competences and that this is done in tripartite cooperation. So this is not a state-owned, one-sided case that has to be swept over the municipalities' heads. It's a party reform, which the state itself should see the importance and usefulness of, and therefore, in my view, the government, the government parties and the supporting parties should have sat in the driver's seat and helped to bring this forward. I record that it is a task they do not want to be involved in in this way. It's a little bit of a shame, and it's a little bit forward-looking. It is particularly incomprehensible when we read that the Council of State actually agrees with the proposers in this letter to the Committee, where he states that he agrees with the need for good and proper competence in order to ensure high quality in municipal services. The majority try to turn this proposal into a coercive case for the municipalities is difficult for me to understand, and it should have been possible to avoid. Finally, when you come from the pulpit here, also from the chairman of the committee, Njåstad, you refer to bets for the municipalities, among others. The continuing training of nurses, and questions are asked as to whether the municipality has actually been asked whether this is a priority measure, and you cannot answer it, I think it is somewhat weak. You should be able to answer that. Otherwise, I'm going to give Njåstad the right idea that there is a lot of good competence in the municipalities. That's what we see when we're out there visiting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2360	As a representative of the Health and Care Committee, I always have the image of 90 pst. of all activities carried out in the field of health, take place in the municipalities. But the municipalities get 50 pst. of the aid, and 50 pst. go to the specialist health service. We know that early intervention prevents disease. It's a good economy. We also know that the longer you control your own life, the more you get treatment in your own home, the longer you can mobilise your own resources, and you can also increase the quality of life and reduce costs. Therefore, competence is so vital that we get that promise. We have adopted many good intentions, agreements, cooperation agreements and grant schemes, etc., but the result is not yet. We also see that there are considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities. It's not good either. The differences go across large or small municipalities. What we get feedback from health workers about is that they lack the attention they experience teachers getting with the Teacher Lift. They want the ‘health promise’ – to be seen. That's actually a little bit of what we're trying to answer. But we're also trying to answer that we should have a fairer distribution of community resources. We see that in research. There is very little research aimed at primary health, although we have said that it is where it is to be lifted. Health enterprises have their own resources for research. They also have their own resources to support the training of permanent doctors. If we are to succeed in the interaction reform, we must have firm forces capable of interacting, and we must have a structure that makes them want to be fixed and to have rotational arrangements there. The same thing applies to the nursing care. They start in the care of the elderly, because it's the lowest status. Then they end up in hospitals when they get training. We have to turn this around, because I fully agree with several representatives here that the biggest challenge is the health care provided in the municipalities. Then there's a lack of clinical nurses. We have received feedback from the Health Directorate that they believe it is because too few municipalities have arranged for them to take the training. What is a little sad is that those who have applied are mainly those who live in cities – who have easier access to specialist health services. But where there is the greatest need, there is a longer distance from the hospitals. I fully agree with the representative Helge André Njaastad that it means something when you change regime. The Workers' Party in Bergen cooperates with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the City Council, and for the first time they have adopted a plan for research into health, so that knowledge-based health services can be provided in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2376	It is interesting to hear how some of the representatives on the right argue when we discuss competence reform versus what we do when we discuss community reform. When we discuss municipal reform, there is no way of how bad things are in Norwegian municipalities and how terrible a deficiency it is in competent professionals. But when we discuss skills reform and the need for it, there is no way how well it works, and there are virtually no problems anywhere. But that's not why I took the word. I record that the bulk of the population and the government parties are opposed to our proposal because they do not want to control the municipalities in detail. The Progress Party believes that the requirements we are talking about here should only be addressed to workers' party-driven municipalities – polite to say in a party-political exchange. But we believe that a systematic commitment to competence is important to implement in all Norwegian municipalities, because it is so essential to ensure equivalent welfare services to the population wherever you live in the country. When the government is unable to distribute money to a master's in nursing care, you immediately conclude from the Progress Party that there is something wrong with the municipalities. Perhaps the government's design of the grant funds is incorrect, or lack of dialogue or information to the municipalities. That is precisely why we are proposing a reform organised through tripartite cooperation, which should oblige the municipalities, but also the workers, and not least the state to provide resources. I have a suspicion that this is where the shoe presses for the government parties when they say no to this, because this so clearly would also oblige the state. The representative Andersen addressed this with the need to use more confidence in public sector governance. We fully agree with that. I guess I'm missing a follow-up from the government on the subject of culture, attitudes and public sector management. At least it is a fact that if you want to stop using counting edges and just stop measuring inputs in your work rather than focusing on results and what you get at the other end, it is a prerequisite that employees have the right skills and the ability to reflect on their own practices. So finally about the municipal economy: it's not good. At least it is not good enough per day to develop the quality of services for the youngest and the oldest. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party made the choice that there should be no money in the care of the elderly. I have not met a single rapporteur who signs that this is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2403	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2419	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2428	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The Committee welcomes the intention of the representative of the representatives Trine Skei Grande and André N. Skkelstad to ensure the most accurate methods for the ageing of children seeking asylum. This is also reflected in the December 2015 integration agreement. The Committee considers it important that the foreign authorities have good age assessment procedures at all times. Misappropriation can have a significant impact on the subject, as single minor asylum seekers have special rights as a result of being a child. At the same time, it is important that non-resident authorities have good tools to detect and prevent adults from reporting under the age of 18 in order to obtain benefits as a minor. It must also be mentioned that a main challenge for UDI is that only 2 pst. of the lone minor asylum seekers carry ID documents. In addition, document safety is low, making the id-clearing process demanding. The Committee notes that age surveys are controversial in several disciplines. At the same time, according to the UDI, these studies are the most objective and professionally justified assessments available to them when determining age. The Committee is in favour of the Public Health Institute taking over the professional responsibility for the medical age surveys. We know that we are currently working on knowledge and method development to put in place appropriate and accurate methods. We look forward to the National Institute of Public Health setting up an environment of competence and assume that supplementary or alternative methods of age assessment are considered in this respect. The majority of the Committee, all other than government parties, also emphasises that there are significant costs related to age testing. Publicly allocated funds shall be managed in a sound manner and age surveys shall be carried out where it cannot be established with reasonable certainty whether the applicant is over or under 18 years of age. According to NOAS and Save Children Age Tests UDI currently all who report being between 15 and 18 years of age. The Foreign Affairs Act and the UN guidelines are very clear that age surveys should only be carried out in cases of doubt. However, the majority of the Committee has concluded that it is not necessary for the Storting to ask the government to instruct the UDI when to use age surveys. The size must be able to expect the Council of State to follow up its underlying offices if or when practices differing from the law and international guidelines are identified. The NOAS and Redd Barna report of March 2016 shows that the age statements of case handlers in the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department of the police – PU – are poorly justified, and that appearances are overemphasized. About 5 500 single minor asylum seekers came to Norway in 2015. That's a large number compared to previous years. This means, among other things: increased volume of work for case handlers in the UDI. Regardless of the amount of work, it is important that the legal certainty of the asylum seeker is ensured and that the overall age assessment is of good quality. The centre party will therefore support the proposals aimed at ensuring that decision-makers have sufficient competence to comment on age and that reception and care centres employees are more involved in age statements. The Committee also notes that there is a growing desire to develop methods for psychosocial studies, including: by UNICEF Norway and professionals at the Regional Centre for the Mental Health of Children and Young People. UDI is also positive to this. The Committee considers that if such studies can contribute to improving the quality of age assessments, it should be investigated. The government should ensure that methods for psychosocial age surveys are developed. It is the responsibility of the government that the most accurate, accessible methods are used. After the committee reading, we are familiar with, among other things. by looking up in the VG, that the company Barnesak AS, which has been responsible for compiling the medical age surveys since 2013, has a single employee. There is no age setting method that provides absolutely certain answers. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that it is highly unfortunate that individuals should make these assessments. The centre party therefore proposes that we ask the government to transfer the professional responsibility for carrying out the age assessment to the Public Health Institute as soon as possible. It is important that the evaluation is carried out by a wider professional environment, not by a person alone. Minorities of which the Senterpartiet is not a part, I expect the proposers themselves to explain. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Central Party is a co-rapporteur and the proposal on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2451	The representative of Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2456	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his good work. As the rapporteur said in his statement, the Labour Party is also in favour of the intentions of the proposal and sees the need to ensure the most accurate methods for the age testing of children seeking asylum. Children who come to the country alone are a vulnerable group who need special follow-up. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure the proper arrangements for children in transit to Norway. When applying for asylum, age is of fundamental importance for the evaluation of the application and the nature of the rights it enjoys. It is therefore essential that the methods used to assess age in cases of doubt be as accurate as possible. As part of the integration agreement, the Stortinget asked the government to investigate new and more accurate methods of child ageing. The government has stated that this order from Stortinget is being followed up by the investigation that is now taking place, and the knowledge environment that is being built around this at the Swedish Institute of Public Health. As we see it now, the government has put in place an important effort to put in place new and more accurate methods of age testing of children. At the same time, we perceive that the methods studied and evaluated are exclusively linked to medical methods. We are very much in favour of the proposals put forward by the draft representative, but since we have already supported a request decision in the same direction, we think it is right to await the government's proposal on this. I note that the case rapporteur, the representative of the Centre Party, has today made a loose proposal to transfer the professional responsibility for the implementation of medical age testing to the Public Health Institute, and that they want to ensure that the use of medical age assessment is always seen in an overall context and used on a case-by-case basis. We will not support that proposal – both because it came today, and because we do not know the consequence of what it will mean for the competence of the Institute of Public Health. I wish, when the Council of State is here, that she could say something about what she thinks about the proposals – and especially about transferring professional responsibility to the Institute of Public Health. I and many people with me read the VG on 6 November where it appeared – and we know it – that in the 2016 budget, the Swedish Institute of Public Health was given the task of building an environment of competence that can take responsibility for the tests. The Public Health Institute was supposed to start this analysis work on 1 July, I read, but they didn't. Now the plan is to be ready by New Year. If we have understood this right, the government has commissioned the Public Health Institute to build an environment of expertise that can take responsibility for analysing the tests, and then it would have been nice if the Council of State could say something about when responsibility can be transferred, and how far one has come in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2467	On the right, too, we are clearly committed to ensuring that the intention of the proposal is respected, namely that we ensure the best possible level of success in the ageing of children seeking asylum in Norway. You have special rights as a child, and it is a point that children should be treated as children and not as adults, and that adults should be treated as adults and not as children. In the case of several of the proposals made, e.g.: that UDI is to be instructed in the use of age surveys or that new research projects are to be carried out in order to make psychosocial age tests, we in the Right will not be in favour of the proposals as they exist. We choose to rely on the heavy professional work and assessments that are being done today, and that there is, in fact, also research – research that is also needed to be looked at. On the right, we stress the fact that the Council of State also informs the Committee in its response, that the subject areas for age surveys are in very advanced stages. This is precisely why, as the representative Sund was also involved, the Swedish Institute of Public Health has been responsible for developing knowledge and methods in this area when building up a knowledge environment during 2016. I also look forward to the State Council possibly saying more about this. But, of course, alternative or supplementary methods of medical age assessment will also be considered in this context, and I think it is right that the Stortinget also waits for that work before giving the closest instructions on how to perform age testing. In addition, a research project commissioned by the UDI has just been completed which is linked to the further development of the medical studies. From the Right, we support, as I said, the intention. We are concerned that it is in everyone's interest that we get the best possible age determination, but I think we are wise to wait with further research projects and staggering management of how age testing should take place until the completed research projects have been evaluated and until the Public Health Institute has also done its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2478	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for taking up today's practice of age testing for children seeking asylum, and the relatively weak methods we have in this work. It is an important matter, and the Christian People's Party supports the intention of the proposal to ensure the most accurate methods of age testing. We know that misassessment can have major consequences for them. The Christian People's Party believes that there is reason to make changes in today's practice. Today, medical age testing is used for those who report being between 15 and 18 years of age. There is a practice that is at odds with the preparations of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Storting assumptions, which was that such tests should only be used if there is reason to believe that the information provided is incorrect. In this sense, the content of the proposal is merely a clarification of what is already resulting from the legislative work. And as it is called in Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007: ‘It is not necessary to have age surveys carried out on all those who lack satisfactory identity documents.’ In addition, several organisations at the hearing state that these age tests may be an additional burden on children, children in a vulnerable situation. It speaks for using the tests only in cases where there are concrete points of view to doubting the information given on age. Another factor is that these tests are relatively expensive; they cost $13 million. kr in 2015. It must then be more important to use resources for thorough age tests where there is real doubt about age, rather than simple surveys in all cases. Christian People's Party therefore supports proposal No. 1) that the government will ensure that age surveys are used only in cases where there are specific reasons for doubting the age of asylum seekers. In the integration agreement on the Stortinget last autumn, agreement was reached to ask the government to investigate new and more accurate methods for the age testing of children. This was unanimously adopted in this Chamber. The Christian People's Party expects the government to follow this decision closely, and here it is not enough just to show that the Public Health Institute takes responsibility in this area, as is done in the Communication on Integration. The Christian People's Party will not today impose on the government that this is done through a special research project on psychosocial age surveys, but it is natural that the government will ensure that this type of study is also investigated. One important element here is that the UN guidelines indicate that maturity is also assessed in the context of age surveys. Furthermore, proposers highlight the importance of competence and quality in age surveys by case handlers in PU and UDI. As mentioned above, age tests and age statements could have a significant impact on those concerned, and it is therefore important that opinions on the age of employees in PU and UDI are qualified and of high quality, and it is natural that the government should follow this up, even without the requirements of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2494	The President assumes that the representative should address just proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2499	The President is right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2504	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2509	Lone minor asylum seekers are young people who come to Norway alone without adults who have parental responsibility for them. Children alone have a special right under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In order for these children to be granted the rights they claim, Norwegian authorities must know whether asylum seekers are under or above 18 years of age. It is very important that children are not misjudged as adults and that adults are not misjudged as children. A broad majority in this room agreed in the integration agreement concluded before Christmas last year that there was a need for more accurate methods of child ageing. The left therefore promoted the proposal as a follow-up to the integration agreement, and it is therefore disappointing that the parties behind the agreement do not wish to follow up. There was a broad consensus that today's method is not good enough. Both the Medical Association and the Norwegian Paediatric Association are critical for the use of these methods. The Public Health Institute, which has been assigned the task of age regulation, does not consider current studies and methods and categories of medical age assessment to be sufficiently scientifically proven to take over the current practice. Nevertheless, the majority in this House do not see the need for more accurate methods. The fact that the methods are not accurate means that a person does not always have the right age. It well illustrated the Verge Association in its statement. They referred to a case in which the Odontological Faculty, after conducting a dental examination, reached the age of about 16 years, while Unilab, after X-raying both the hand and the hand, reached the age of approx. 19 years. For the child, who claims to be about 16, it was dramatic that age was set at 19. Then one is considered to be an adult, with the duties and expectations that follow. Then one does not receive the same follow-up and the same rights as children are entitled to. In a report of March 2016, the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation and the Redd Barna concluded that current age assessment practices violate the Foreign Affairs Act and the UN guidelines. It shows that all asylum seekers who declare to be single minors, between 15 and 18 years of age, are now being examined without an individual assessment of whether there is any doubt about age. This is contrary to Section 88 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which states that there should be a concrete individual assessment of whether there is doubt about age before the age survey is conducted. Practice is therefore contrary to the UN guidelines, which say that age surveys should be carried out as a last resort and only if there are reasonable grounds for doubting the age indicated. We therefore promote the proposal that age surveys should only be used in cases where there are concrete grounds for doubt as to the age of the asylum seeker. An overall committee considers that if psychosocial studies contribute to improving the quality of the age assessment, it is appropriate to explore how different studies can be used. Nevertheless, they do not want to contribute to the generation of such knowledge by supporting our proposal to call on the government to facilitate the establishment of a research project for the development of a psychosocial age survey approach. The Norwegian Children’s Association is clear that monitoring the mental maturity and social functions of an asylum seeker will provide a broader basis for age determination. Psychosocial studies could help to identify what is best for the child, to identify follow-up needs and to provide information on the asylum issue. Psychiatric age surveys may, for example: be carried out as an extended part of the health examination at reception in transit and can be carried out without the use of disproportionate financial resources; According to the UN guidelines, comprehensive age assessments have to be carried out that look at both physical and psychological developments. Psychosocial age surveys as a supplement to medical age surveys will therefore be in line with the UN recommendations and contribute to more robust age assessments in case of doubt about age. No age survey should be conducted unless there is doubt as to the age of the applicant. If there is doubt, age assessments will become more robust using two different studies. We therefore believe that there is a need for quality assurance of these opinions, and it is necessary to ensure that case handlers have sufficient competence to comment on age. The report also demonstrates that the UDI’s decision justifies age setting too poorly. It is very important for the legal certainty of asylum seekers that the UDI’s age assessment is made sufficiently visible in the asylum decision. We therefore ask the government to take action to ensure that the age statements of case handlers in the Police Foreign Unit and the UDI are of good quality and that the age determination in decisions is made sufficiently visible. This should be a matter of course, and it surprises me that the majority does not see it, and that this is about children and children's legal certainty. We will not be able to accept a similar practice towards Norwegian children. I'm addressing proposal No. 4, to which the Left is co-sponsored. At the same time, I would like to point out that we are going to support the solution proposed by the Central Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2535	The representative, André N. Skelstad, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2540	SV will also support the proposal of the Centre Party, and it is clear. This is a difficult matter, I will admit it, but I think it also suffers that we now have a political climate that makes the fulfilment of our fundamental obligations with regard to both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Refugees, if not far exceeded. A lot of legal experts think so. This case also shows that despite what the Storting has decided on the age surveys, despite the pre-worker of the law, a practice that professionals say is completely irresponsible. I cannot understand in what other case we would have accepted this, if the Medical Association and Norwegian Pediatrics Association had told us that these are methods that cannot be trusted. It is probably only in the policy of asylum and in the treatment of single minor asylum seekers that Stortinget will be able to deal with it in this way. That's why I think it necessary to refer to the Norwegian Pediatrics Association's hearing, where they say that they concluded already in 2010 – this is not a new issue, it has been a subject of controversy and a difficult matter for a long time – and that they go so far as to say that doctors should not participate in this work because the method is not good enough. It's quite serious. They say this shouldn't be a doctor's business, because it's not okay. I can tell you that I have two sons who have been tested for age because they were very small. We wondered if they were going to grow, or if they needed hormones. They might have been taken to be 16 when they were 20. Now they're adults, they've grown up and grown up in general. In a country where, for example, have poor diets, where young people and children have been subjected to severe stress, we know that the body can be aged early. Body remembers evil things, and many of these young ones have experienced bad things. And then we're going to run a test that we know doesn't keep track of. I am disappointed that the majority could not at least agree with the proposal to instruct the government to say that the tests should be used as they were intended, not on everyone, but only on those who are in doubt. There is also reason to ask questions about how the results are actually used. If you assume that age can be between 17 and 19, you always say 19. If it's between 15 and 18, it's always 18. There is a little bit of how these tests are also used as there is a need to go through. You always take what is to the disadvantage of the asylum seeker. This is reflected in what I experience, especially from the Council of State, when she is confronted with the fact that Norway and the Norwegian authorities have a separate responsibility for children, on the basis of the Children's Convention, our own constitution and also our own legal provisions. No matter how the parents behave, we have that responsibility. And then the council always answers: No, the parents could have behaved differently; there are some parents who have sent these out of farms. We know very little about it. In any case, the Council of State, in any case, has the government, in any case, the Storting has responsibility for these children, and for treating them properly. Then I see that the majority chooses to refer to a previous case in order to refute the need for it to be given age statements. They refer to the Inn. 103 L for 2014-2015. That case was about completely lifting the professional secrecy of the reception staff with regard to children. There is something quite different than saying that you can obtain information and assessments from employees in the reception of how old this child is, because that is where the child lives, and it may be those who have the best assessment of whether this is a child or whether it is a youth. I think everyone would have wanted there to be some tests that could say this properly, or that anyone who came had papers that could be verifiable, but that's not the way the world is. Then it's our duty first and foremost to take the children into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2559	The aim of the age assessment is to respect the rights of children and to avoid abuse of the system. Children shall not be misjudged as adults and adults shall not be misjudged as children. Lone minor asylum seekers have far better rights, and many report wrong age on arrival. There are doubts about age in very many cases. Very few of the lone minor asylum seekers have ID documents when applying for protection in Norway. Most also come from countries with low document safety and where the applicant himself is not sure about age. Medical age surveys are an important tool for the management of foreigners who have doubts about age. However, there is no age setting method that provides absolutely certain answers. The age survey is part of an overall assessment, where other elements are also included. A clear probability balance is required before determining the age above 18 years. I agree that best practices should be used to assess age in protection issues. In order to strengthen the work on age assessment, the Public Health Institute has been given the professional responsibility for medical age surveys. During these days, the Institute conducts a quality assessment of the applicable methods and evaluates both alternative and supplementary methods. The National Institute for Public Health also looks at psychosocial tests as a possible way of assessing age. So far they have not been able to find any established method in use, no international literature or standard in the field, nor any information on measurable correlation between the results of such tests and chronological age. Maturity is individual, especially in view of the experience of some children and young adults before coming to Norway. So far, there is no basis for believing that psychosocial age surveys will produce less variation in results than current methods. In my opinion, we should wait for further research projects until the Institute of Public Health has made its assessments. The UDI shall also assess and, where appropriate, follow up a recently completed research project from Norsk Regnesentral mfl. I have noticed that a minority in the Committee believe that UDI's practice in carrying out age surveys needs to be changed. I would like to stress that age surveys are currently being used where there is reasonable doubt about the age of the applicant. Who is requested to be examined for age depends on an individual assessment where the identity document, registration information, the applicant’s own age awareness, etc. is essential. UDI makes, as I see it, good judgements as to whether there is doubt about the stated age. I therefore believe that there is no need to instruct the UDI to change its practice. I agree that the age statements of case handlers in the Police Foreign Unit and the UDI should be as good as possible. UDI already has detailed guidance on how to deal with applications from single minors. They provide detailed descriptions of the way in which age data are to be provided in the Decision. Reasons shall be given for the change in the stated age and any decisive elements of the age assessment shall be clearly identified in the decision. In addition, circulars have been developed, including: to the police, on the registration of lone minor asylum seekers. The case handler shall assess whether there is doubt about age and all assessments shall be specifically justified and communicated to the applicant. I believe that existing procedures are good and that it is unnecessary to ask the government to take further action. Then I'm asked to comment on the solution proposed by the Center Party. I believe that the government has already followed up this. Firstly, we transferred the overall professional responsibility for age assessments to the Public Health Institute on 1 January 2016. Secondly, the Swedish Institute of Public Health started working on a knowledge-monitoring of methods from then on, and they have built competence in 2016. Therefore, the plan is that from February 2017 the Institute of Public Health will take over the task of interpreting the medical examinations and, on the basis of it, provide an age assessment to the UDI – so this will be followed up. We hope that that plan is followed, so that February will be the time when they get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2589	In my post, I took up the importance of good competence in both PU and UDI when it comes to determining age, because we know that the conclusions you reach are very important to the children involved. Therefore, it is important that there is high and qualified competence in the two levels. I see that there have been proposals that oblige the government to follow this up. I believe that it should have been completely unnecessary, because it should have been obvious that the government followed up and made sure that it was good and qualified competence, both in PU and UDI. What the Council of State can explain is how she ensures that we have the right and the qualified competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2596	We demand that our subordinate agencies comply with the legislation that is in force at all times. I believe that those who work on these matters have good competence in the case of lone minors. There will be different levels of experience among those working in this field, but in most cases there will be more in each case to make these assessments. So I think that's taken care of. But we can always get better, and it's constantly working on both the UDI and the PU.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2601	I hope the government does too. When the Council of State says that there is a different degree of maturity in those carrying out these investigations, I am quite shaken, because if it is the maturity of one case manager who decides whether a child is being properly tested for age or not, with the serious consequences it gets, I am a bit stunned and wondering if the government might be a little bit too backward. Rather, we should have used the most mature ones to carry out those investigations. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2608	These decisions are based on an overall assessment, where medical examinations are first carried out — whether by the teeth or by the hand roots, etc. – in cases of doubt, and then to consider other information in these cases. Where there is doubt about age, doubt will always benefit these, so that they will be categorized as under 18. That is why I believe this is a system that works as well as possible. There is no quick fix out there for how to do this in another way. We are among the leading countries in the world, as we know. There's no country around us that we've been looking at, doing this in a different way. But we're not on the lat side, and that's why the Public Health Institute is now working to look at other methods as well, whether they can complement them so that we can get even more accurate methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2615	Through the work on this matter, we have been made aware that UDI has used a company, Barnesak AS, from 2013 onwards to all the summaries of these age assessments. Age assessment is not an exact science, where two lines can be added to the answer, but an assessment must be made after several different studies. We have recently been made aware of the fact that Barnesak AS is operated by one person, one retired doctor. So there is one person who has had all these assessments since 2013. This was new information for me. I am very pleased that the Council of State can tell you that the Institute of Public Health will take over this from February – that is very good. My question is, has the Council of State been aware that there was one individual who has had all these cases for the past three years, and does the Council of State share my concern that it is unfortunate to complain that only one person should be working on such summaries of age surveys?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2623	I trust that the UDI uses actors that they believe are qualified to make the assessments that are to be made here. It is also right to say that the person who owns this company has been a professor of pediatrics at Ullevål University Hospital, and that he was a hospital manager there when Ullevål was responsible for carrying out these tests. So he's been involved in this work for very many years. But now the Institute of Public Health is going to take over this in the new year, and it's going to be exciting to see what assessments they're making of whether there are other methods to add to that picture, which might be interesting. So we're going to get back to that right there. But hopefully the Institute of Public Health will be ready in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2629	I think the Council of State's response on the responsibility for the professionalism of what has been going on until now is weak. She says you trust, etc. The question from the representative Greni was: Did she know that it was just one person, and was it considered to be a professionally competent environment? I guess that's not it, because you've started a job to get this job done in a larger professional environment in the future. But what I needed to ask is whether the Council of State can prove it when she says that the doubt benefits asylum seekers, that is, if there are doubts about age – whether you are over or under 18 years old – it benefits asylum seekers. Both the Verge Association, the NOAS and all organizations working on this, say that it works the opposite way – that doubt does not benefit them at all, but that you always lie down at the top end of the scale, and that many people are judged as adults, who are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2636	Now I've had a review with the UDI of how these age determinations happen. This is done on the basis of medical examinations, but in addition to this, an overall assessment is made. What's the starting point, is that when there's doubt, these people benefit, so that they are characterised as under 18 years of age. So I have to say that there's probably one point here that you do the best job possible, also to separate those who are over 18 years old. If there's something that's not good, it's at least that those who are over 18 are placed, for example. at reception with those under 18 years of age. Here it might sound like you want to get as much as possible under the age of 18, instead of actually figuring out who's under, who's over, and have a fair based system based on it. The methods can get better. That's what we're working for, and it's going to be exciting to see if the Institute of Public Health finds new ways to do this, so we can get supplementary information.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2645	No one disagrees that it is important to distinguish between those over and under 18. The problem here is that the medical examinations you've done now are so dubious that Norwegian Pediatrics' Association says their members shouldn't participate in it. It's quite serious. Then the question is how much emphasis is placed on this when decisions are made, and it is a serious and important matter. I would once again ask the Council of State to prove that it is actually such a way of making an assessment of the age that benefits these asylum seekers – not because you want to get as much as possible, but because you don't want to do anything wrong. I expect the Council of State will agree that you have to. But then it must also be demonstrated that this is the practice, and not just a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2652	I believe that is the practice. One can go through e.g. the figures given by the UDI on the number of persons granted permits, based on the probability of being under or above 18 years of age. And then you'll see that out of the numbers. So it's not just these investigations that form the basis. It's also an overall assessment of other issues that are beyond purely medical, so of course it'll also be part of what you're looking at. But it's actually the way that age surveys and the things we do today are the best thing we have if we're going to be able to distinguish who is over 18 and under 18, and to me it's actually important -- both because I think it's wrong to mix those who are over 18 with those who are minors, and because I think it's wrong that people who are over 18 should get the rights that it implies to be a minor. That's why you have to have a system like this, which we have to work to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2659	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2677	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2686	In recent years we have been spoiled that many good Norwegian television series have come. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that there are still good Norwegian television series. TV series such as Nobel, Eyewitne, Shame and Frikent hold a very high level and have many viewers following the programs week after week. Series such as these have given great pleasure to Norwegian TV viewers and have been resold and shown internationally. This may also help to market Norway in a good way abroad. It is important that there are still good funding solutions for the production of Norwegian television series, and that several private investors and TV companies contribute production funds, whether they feel that this is interesting. I have the impression that they do when you refer to other good products or results. When several Norwegian television series have been sold abroad in recent years, this could lead to the future raising of capital for future investments. I want Norwegian high-quality television series to be produced in the future, and I recognise the industry's important work throughout the cultural sector. TV series are bordering on creative cultural industries such as film production and animation. It proves that we have now developed this area in a good way. It can also lead to good synergies between different cultural industries. I consider television series to be important for innovation in the cultural sector. The TV series Scham has shown itself to be a very innovative television series that has managed to reach many groups that are otherwise considered difficult to reach. Yeah, we're talking about young people who don't have the same TV habits as what we have, we 'old people', with'streaming' and a completely different way of life in that area. This result has been achieved, among other things. using social media. We see that the Workers' Party has been out in the media, and it may seem that they think only men have the opportunity to work in less predictable film productions, while TV production, with more tidy working hours, is well adapted to women. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party can go out so strongly and believe this, that TV production has good prerequisites for being a woman-friendly industry. I'd say it's sprayy. It seems like that to me. It is not right, as the Labour Party claims, that television production is well adapted to women. What does that mean? Is it for her to go home in good time to make dinner for her husband and children? Is that what you mean? It's really a rather traditional women's vision The Labour Party shows here. I believe that both men and women can work equally well in that profession, which is unpredictable. Also in our area, the policy – which I believe is an unpredictable profession – we have shown that we have managed to reach fifty-five. I believe that TV production and film production are also within that area, at least when we arrived in 2016. The government has invested in Norwegian television production in the last few years, and I refer to the government's demand for grants for the production of television drama in letters of assignment to the Norwegian Film Institute, which is quite clear. I would also like to highlight that the Norwegian Film Institute's contribution to the TV drama has increased from 5 pst. to 13 pst. from 2010. These are very positive numbers. I would also like to point out that in the 2017 state budget, it is proposed to strengthen the creative industry by over 70 million. kr. This initiative covers all artistic expressions and could also be supported for cinematographic and serial production.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2701	The Norwegian film and television series industry is in the shot that never before and is reaping ever more recognition both at home and internationally. It provides good experiences for the audience, increases profitability in the industry, strengthens professionalism and enhances the attractiveness of Norway as a recording country and travel destination. It can also help to free up more talents and give opportunities to show up and flourish. The working party therefore wants to contribute to an even stronger commitment to television series in the future. First of all, we want to help increase the number of annual productions and have launched a number of proposals that can contribute positively to it. In the film conciliation, the Stortinget signalled a strong desire to establish co-financing responsibilities from actors who are making money for the dissemination of audiovisual content. This work should be intensified and we are waiting for the follow-up of the Minister of Culture. Furthermore, it is important to increase efforts for Norwegian productions above the State budget, preferably with new, fresh funds from co-financing responsibility. I would like to mention in this connection that the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget proposes 50 million. kr more to the film field, which could certainly lead to more TV series productions. The ex-post aid for films is now paid in arrears, and success for Norwegian cinematographic films can lead to funds for new cinematographic and serial productions being put on hold. This gives too little predictability to the industry, and the Workers' Party considers that there is reason to consider making ex post aid to a rights-based scheme that is paid independently of other means of producing audiovisual content. The incentive scheme is currently a framework scheme, and there is a high threshold for applying for funds. In order to take Norwegian television series productions into account, we believe that the scheme should be further developed by looking at both the device and the extension of the framework. In addition, the scheme should be moved to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The government has now rightly proposed to increase the framework, but we have not seen that the Council of State has followed up the Storting's desire to further develop the incentive system. The government's draft budget is, in effect, a cut to Norwegian films and television series. We also want to underline the generalcaster's responsibility for strengthening the bet on Norwegian television series. As the rapporteur, I should like to give an example. Shame has marked itself as a very innovative television series, which has managed to reach many in a group that is considered difficult to reach, including in the Nordic region. They have done so, among other things. widespread use of social media. But I would say that shame would never be realized if it were to be assessed in a commercial market. It is thanks to a brave and patient public broadcaster who not only thinks profitability, that the project was realised. Government parties seem to jump over this when they boast of Shame, while government cuts the license and removes demands for contributions to Norwegian films and television dramas from commercial public broadcasts. The Committee agrees that it is important for individual employees, production companies and investors in this industry that there is predictability in terms of both employment, project duration and future opportunities. However, predictability for all sectors of the industry requires good and precisely predictable support schemes. That is why we believe it is time for a strategy for increased bets on Norwegian television series. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party. A small comment to the case rapporteur: I understand well the need of the Progress Party to talk about equality, which is absent from that party, but in this case I do not understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2724	The representative of Sonja Mandt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2729	When it comes to the desire for increased bets on Norwegian television series, I think there is a full consensus on Stortinget. We all want that, and I think we should keep working for everyone. That's what the government is working for in many contexts. It may seem that there has been inflation in making strategies, but the government has a strategy to achieve this. That's why it's done the grips it's got so far. That's why we're very clear that when we have a public broadcaster, it has a responsibility to make sure that some of what it gets from resources is going to produce Norwegian television series. That's why we've made the arrangements we have for payment. I think it is a little strange that when we were not long ago through all the support schemes for the production of sound and image, we should suddenly look at it again. It has not been long since we dealt with a film message that addresses all these support schemes. Then I also understand that it is tempting and fun in the opposition to talk about that all entries should be rights-based, but we know that this is not how it works. We know that we have to create a framework for what's going to happen, and we have to take that on board. Nor is it the case that if you received a rights-based ex post grant, it would secure these productions. Then one has to meet all the other requirements in order to receive this grant. From my point of view, this was just a need to point out that the government has a strategy, and it is taking concrete action. We had a big deal here in the hall for a short time back, where we went through the different arrangements and found a common agreement. It would be strange to start that work again now.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2738	I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Workers' Party for the opportunity to talk about Norwegian TV drama betting from Stortinget's pulpit. From the representative proposal, if you read it, it may seem that the government is not interested in the Norwegian TV drama, and that there is therefore a need for a bet. It's wrong, and I want to establish that right away. Because not only does this government bet on TV drama, but Norwegian TV drama goes down. We have never done as well with the Norwegian TV drama as it does now. Norwegian television series are simply inside a golden age. We claim to be international, it's our television series that's being requested and talked about. Then I think maybe a strategy, adopted by the Norwegian Stortinget, is not the Norwegian television series first and foremost needed right now. This government is committed to ensuring continued production and access to Norwegian quality content. That's why we've had a stronger commitment to the TV drama in the last few years. The TV-Drama has received an increasing proportion of the funding in the film sector, and the Ministry of Culture has also highlighted the TV-Drama as a special priority in the Norwegian Film Institute's letter of award. This bet, combined with the Norwegian TV channel's own bet on the TV-drama, produces results. In Norway, we now see that there is more TV drama produced than ever, and not least of a very high quality. As several representatives have been involved, we have, for example: only in the fall of three major Norwegian drama series that attracts a large audience: Nobel on the NRK, Frikent 2 on TV 2 and Aber Bergen on TV3. Never before have Norwegian series been so sought by Norwegian and Nordic audiences. Yes, you embrace Norwegian series. It is extra nice to see that TV series produced in Norway are also being requested internationally. It's not just Norway that likes the drama series. For example, Nobel was recently selected for Europe’s best drama series under the Prix Europa distribution in Berlin, in competition with 25 of the best European drama series. The series also became one of the largest television sales to the rest of the world. There are actually viewers in up to 200 countries who will have the opportunity to watch the series. Other TV series also do well at home. The curiosity about audiovisual content from the Nordic countries is great. When the government's proposal for new film policy was debated almost a year ago, it was focused on the fact that the film and television industry is in the middle of a digital revolution. Digitalisation is creating new challenges, but even more important is the fact that it has opened up a world of new opportunities. Of course, shame is an example. When I was at the Nordic Council of Ministers in Copenhagen a few days ago, we discussed Nordic films and TV dramas. One series was then raised by the Danish Minister of Culture, who in his speech to the Nordic Council of Ministers mentioned one example: The Norwegian television series Scham had led his teenage children to take an interest in Norway and to learn Norwegian. It was joyous! The Ministry of Culture wants to cooperate with the actors – the broadcasters and other actors in the chain – and find good solutions for co-financing. The established industry structures and business models are difficult to reverse, even if they are threatened. That is why we want to think anew, and that is why we also launched pilot projects this summer to allow innovation and thinking differently in this field. Once again, I would like to thank the Stortinget for the opportunity to debate Norwegian TV drama betting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2760	In the motion for a resolution, the Stortinget expressed the expectation that co-financing responsibility would be put in place. What has the Council of State done to follow up that point, and when can we expect a case about it to the Storting? I heard the council said something, but when can we get a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2765	We are committed to establishing a co-financing scheme. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture has also taken the initiative of a Round Table with the actors in order to find a solution. There you saw that the distance was pretty big, to say it that way, and that has led to us still having a dialogue. We will again invite you to a conversation, even if we have had a process in progress. So we're concerned that the industry itself has to go ahead and find solutions. We now feel that this is going on, and that is why I believe that we are going to come up with a solution if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2770	Yes, I expect the Council of State to deliver on that point. While we're waiting for it, we have two other important tools, the public broadcasters, but the Council of State has chosen to weaken the efforts of Norwegian films and television dramas by removing the requirement for contributions from commercial public broadcasters and by cutting the NRK license. Why does the Council of State not have greater ambitions on behalf of Norwegian film?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2776	I have to correct one thing the representative Mandt claims, namely that we cut the NRK license. We don't. So that's wrong. We're not increasing it, but it's something else than cutting. The Norwegian TV-drama goes as never before, has never been more requested internationally, the competence and the bet are very clear both from the industry and from the authorities, and several say that the Norwegian TV-drama is inside a gold age. Then I believe that political interference and adopted strategies from the Storting are what the industry needs least. That's not all politicians need to solve in this country, and when Norwegian TV drama really claims now, I think we should be proud of it and applaud what the industry itself is capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2783	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2801	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2810	Let me begin by thanking all the parties in the Financial Committee for contributing to the rapid treatment and follow-up of the Government's legislative proposals on changes to the Tax Payments Act by introducing a temporary system of deferred payment of property taxes for owners of accounting deficits. Rapid treatment and decision-making in the Stortinget will have an impact on the advance tax and the advance will be extended as early as 2016. The majority of the Committee, composed of the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has further expanded and strengthened the system to include deficit groups even if the parent company has positive annual results. Holding companies are also included, and the scheme has been extended to personal owned shares in general, as shown by the majority’s nomination to a new legislative decision. The proposal for a deferred payment of property taxes is a follow-up to the Storting’s request decisions in the context of the handling of the paper on tax reform for conversion and growth. The government then asked the government to assess the issue of property taxes in relation to liquidity challenges for owners and businesses when the companies are running short and there is no basis for paying dividends to owners, and the government already announced in the revised national budget for 2016 that proposals would be made in the budget for 2017. This is a rapid and concrete follow-up to a very important measure to help Norwegian enterprises through a difficult period of lack of demand and fewer jobs. Although capital access can be claimed to be good in Norway and for Norwegian businesses in general, individual industries may have temporary challenges in financing their activities. Large capital bonds and little or no earnings push liquidity, and large dividends to serve the owners' wealth tax have a further negative impact on the company's own financing and ability to invest in new jobs. Tax relief to businesses increases investment and increased investment provides more jobs. The property tax goes in the opposite direction and is a harmful strange tax on Norwegian-owned jobs that companies have to pay regardless of whether they earn or lose money. Norwegian enterprises owned by the rest of the world are dropping property taxes, which means that the property tax is capping Norwegian companies for equity and innovation for the benefit of their competitors. The decision to ask the government to propose a deferred payment scheme for property taxes is precisely a recognition of this issue and will include, inter alia, the following: This means that enterprises in the South and West will not be able to absorb capital in a situation where Norway needs investment in new jobs. With this I would very much recommend the position of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2825	It's true, as the representative Limi says, that this makes the government in line with the tax settlement in ours, a tax settlement of which, of course, the Workers' Party is also part. That is why we also support the proposal's starting point for the suspension of the payment of property taxes in the current situation. We see that it might have something to do with it. That is why we are also involved in the conciliation. Now, however, the Workers' Party felt that the government delivered to the Stortinget first, was the best proposal. Probably we should have encouraged the government's original proposal again as a minority proposal. In the absence of the possibility to do so now, the Workers' Party is going to vote against the first and second paragraphs of the amendment to the law that is in place, as we think that the best course of action is the starting point for this case. We also disagree with the government's assessment of moving forward at a higher rate, but it is also mentioned in the form of a note, as this is part of the regulation and not part of the law itself. But the Workers' Party supports what we have agreed on in the tax settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2832	An important objective of the tax reform that was put forward is to: One year ago, with broad support from the UK, the aim was to facilitate growth and development in business and to strengthen the framework conditions for creating new jobs and secure existing jobs. In this context, property taxes were also discussed. The property tax has the property that it is calculated from the value of the object at a given time. That means that one can have apparently large wealth values without the object for which these values are intended, actually generate a profit. The majority behind the tax settlement, i.e. all parties other than the SV and the Green Party acknowledged that it is an unfortunate aspect of the property tax that it does not take into account whether a company is in deficit. Norwegian private owners must pay taxes on wealth of working capital irrespective of the actual performance of that capital. In reality, this means that Norwegian owners of Norwegian jobs may find themselves in a situation where they have to pay dividends from a company that is actually in deficit in order to be able to pay their property tax linked to this ownership. The majority of the tax settlement was concerned that this would create liquidity problems for some owners and companies, and therefore wanted an assessment of how temporary liquidity problems could possibly be addressed, without creating a circumvention of the property tax, or requiring disproportionate administrative resources to implement it. It is good that a majority recognizes problematic aspects of property taxes. And it is good that the government already in the revised national budget in our announcement that a deferred property tax scheme would come, and that this would apply from the 2016 Equation Year. The proposition we now have for treatment is just dealing with this. It is proposed that owners of companies with deficits may defer the property tax for two years. The proposal implies that personal owners of loss-making enterprises may require deferred payment of property taxes on shares, units of unit-linked enterprises and operating funds of individual enterprises for two years. The proposal being promoted is temporary and will apply for two years, namely the 2016 and 2017 years of income. In order to ensure that the scheme is targeted, it is proposed to limit the scheme to taxpayers who have a deferred property tax of at least NOK 30 000. The government proposed 5 pst. interest on the deferred tax, but the right supports the amendments proposed by the majority of the committee, to extend the scheme to personal owned shares in general, and to make this change profit-neutral, we set interest on deferred property taxes to 6 pst. Norway is undergoing a transition phase and, in particular, companies related to the petroleum industry face many challenges in this transition. Among other things, today there are many ships in warehouses along the coast. The change in deferred taxes on wealth will help to strengthen Norwegian owners of companies in deficit. It will also help to strengthen the companies themselves and the jobs associated with them. In difficult times, we need at least of everything to bottle up companies and companies that are struggling, even more, to distribute dividends instead of deploying resources to strengthen businesses in difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2853	On page 4 of the vote, the majority point out that the proposed scheme can be neutralised by increasing the interest rate of the scheme by one percentage point to 6 pst. That's what it says. ‘This majority assumes that this will in practice contribute to the scheme becoming an opportunity for owners of activities with temporary deficits requiring the suspension of the property tax, while owners of profit activities will not find the scheme attractive.’ When such a scheme was discussed in ours, a number of issues arose. Firstly, property taxes are a personal tax, while profits and losses in some companies are a different issue. Many asset taxpayers may have ownership of some companies with profits and others with a deficit. For example, others may benefit from being subject to property taxes for other liquidity reasons. None of these issues are really visible to a particular degree in the proposition, or in the Committee's position, so one must almost suspect that this is a decision The Stortinget does without fully knowing first of all what consequences it actually has, second, what kind of proceeds it can have in the long term, and thirdly, whether one has secured against the tax adjustments that I at short reading seem to see are quite obvious. It is not likely, I think, that it will be easier to pay property taxes for both, for example. In 2016 and 2017 in the next tax settlement than to pay only for 2016 in this tax settlement. Thus, this may end up being a more permanent postponement of the property tax for those who choose to make use of the scheme, rather than a real relief for those who pay taxes on wealth, if that is the purpose. This helps to draw a picture of the fact that the decision here is an expression of symbol policy which should primarily help to reinforce the image of the right-hand side by creating that the wealth tax is a bigger problem than it really is. On top of that, it seems that the majority is even willing to burden themselves with major administrative challenges to get that point. The government writes in the proposition: «The deferred payment of property tax will be administratively demanding both for the taxpayer and for the tax haven.» To be a bureaucratic language, it's pretty clear speech. This must mean that the government itself is not sure how this will actually work, and how to make it work in practice. Thus, the proposal is also an example of the fact that, despite a lot of rhetoric against increased bureaucracy, the government is in favour of increasing red tape when they put their policies into practice. This is one of the weaker and weaker proposals I can remember to have been involved in dealing with the Stortinget, and in that we may also find the reason that there are so few who sign up to comment on this matter, not because the consensus is great, but because many of the representatives may simply not know what to say. In view of this, the Socialist Left Party is opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2876	It is tempting to open up with saying that it was nice that the Workers' Party and the representative Wickholm were cheering on the government. In the revised national budget, we announced that in the 2017 budget we would propose a temporary and limited deferred property tax scheme for owners of accounting deficits. It was in line with Storting’s treatment of the paper on tax reform. The background was that many businesses have experienced a period of lack of demand and loss of jobs. Although capital access is generally good in Norwegian business, there may be segments of enterprises that have difficulty in obtaining funding. We will now receive a good rule of law that provides these owners with temporary liquidity assistance, so that they do not take capital out of the business to pay property taxes. I am pleased with the broad consensus of the Financial Committee that there is a need for a temporary arrangement for the deferred payment of property taxes. In addition, the majority of the Committee has proposed extending the regime to personal shares in general. The extension simplifies the rules for shares and helps more people make use of the scheme and, in order to neutralise the proceeds, the majority of the financial committee has proposed to increase the interest rate to 6 pst. The interest rate increase is likely to help the scheme become even more focused on taxpayers who have difficulties in obtaining funding elsewhere. In order for the scheme to have an effect on the advance tax and the advance tax already in 2016, it was necessary to deal with the changes before the last advance tax payment expires today. I am pleased that the Financial Committee and the Stortinget have dealt with the legislative proposal quickly. This means that the measure can already work effectively now by reducing the last term of the advance tax to business owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2892	When SV gets the first line in a case, it does not suggest overwhelming interest from Stortinget for the rest. However, I still have my thoughts when this matter is decided upon. I think that if Siv Jensen and the government had shown equal ingenuity in ensuring measures to relieve the burden on those sitting at the bottom of the table in Norway, it would have been a much better country to live in for more. But I have the impression that when this is about e.g. It is hard to take away money; it is to push even people who are too sick to work out in the workplace. But if we are talking about wealth, then there are soft instruments that need to be, for example. exemption arrangements. My question is: would the Minister of Finance be equally willing to introduce relief for those sitting at the bottom of the table in Norway, even if they were to prove to be administratively demanding both for taxpayers and for the tax rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2899	It may well be that there is a great deal of interest in the decision of the Stortinget today, but there is a broad consensus on it. It is about having a basic understanding of the challenges faced by many companies now as a result of the severe oil price fall that Norway has experienced in the last two years. It's serious for many of these companies. Many of them are family-run businesses; they are important in their communities. I think it's sad that SV approaches this with such powerful ideological skyscrapers on it. That being said, this government has done a lot for them at the bottom of the table. We facilitate taxes for them with lower and medium incomes; we strengthen a wide range of welfare schemes precisely to also ensure good welfare arrangements. However, it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time: both to facilitate job conservation and to create more and, at the same time, to facilitate good welfare arrangements for those with little.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2904	I had almost expected the Minister of Finance to use the current crisis, especially in the West, as an argument in this case – as if this were not the policy of the Progress Party in any case had proposed in this period because of its resistance to the wealth tax. I have to say that the tears of the Minister of Finance for those affected by the current crisis are not quite as credible, given that it is the same Minister of Finance who has brought taxes on redundancy benefits, who have taken the holiday money from the unemployed and who are now cutting off initials for machines in business that need to be renewed. This is just rhetoric. I would like to ask again: would the Minister of Finance have been just as willing to put in place derogations for example. even if it were to prove that it would be ‘administratively demanding both for taxpayers and the tax haven’?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2912	It's completely wrong that we use the current crisis, as Serigstad Valen calls it, as an argument for implementing this. It is a fact that, as a result of many companies now experiencing significant liquidity problems, it was necessary to initiate measures to temporarily suspend the payment of property taxes. This is no relief, it's a temporary postponement. I also agree with all the proposals for relief in the general wealth tax proposed by this government, I think it is right, but this is another measure which a broad majority in the Grand Duchy ends up on. I'm glad. I remember the representative, Serigstad Valen, that when we were going to launch the reform that the previous government made possible, this government discovered the need to implement several transitional arrangements, precisely in order to safeguard the interests of those at the bottom of the table. That's why we put forward transitional rules, and they were adopted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2921	I notice that the Council of State did not answer the question of the tax increases and the new burdens placed by the Minister of Finance on the table for those who have been hit hardest by the unemployment crisis. While the unemployed will receive tax increases on their termination benefits, many of the wealthiest wealthy in the country will have the opportunity to defer their tax. If it is that it is quite urgent for some companies affected by the ongoing oil crisis to be taxed, would it not be better to have targeted measures against the actual enterprises affected, instead of a completely general scheme that can only be used by everyone in the wealth tax position in the country, and not only the examples used by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2934	I would like to remind the representative that so far in this period we have adopted tax reductions of over 18 billion. kr. Through the tax reform and a wide range of other measures, we have cleared up a lot of legislation, but within a structure where the aim has always been to reduce the overall tax burden, and I believe that this has been a successful step. So it's an honest thing that SV is not particularly interested in privately owned Norwegian companies in Norway, and that for that reason they also have strong ideological resistance to relief, alteration or deferral of property taxes. However, it is an important step to reach out one hand to all the family-run businesses that employ many, who contribute great values, and how many now experience a significant challenge as a result of the oil price fall that hit Norway two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2941	It's probably more about different priorities than lack of interest in business. There is SV in our budget, for example. proposes to provide companies with a tax cut of 1.8 billion. In order to invest at a time when change is needed, and where change is needed, the government has, as the Minister of Finance himself says, clearly, priority property tax for several years. Many billions of dollars in property tax. There is nothing about these tax cuts that can be proven to have an effect at all. But it brings us back to the original question: why is it that when exemption schemes are first to be put in place to help those affected by the crisis, there is no way in which the Minister of Finance is willing to go under administratively demanding schemes for the owners – while those who lose the job receive tax increases and are deprived of their holiday money?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2946	Let me first fix a mistake. It's not right that it's the wealth tax reliefs that have been given the highest priority by this government, but we've done it too. Thus, the reduction in taxes on wealth is significantly less than any other relief granted to both individuals and workers, and not least through corporate tax reductions. But it has been an important matter for this government to also implement reliefs in the property tax, simply because it is an unfair tax for Norwegian-owned companies in Norway. It favours non-resident enterprises operating in Norway for tax purposes. It is a discrimination that we want to live in. That's why we're also going in to reduce taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2951	It's true that it's not just wealth tax laws that have been one of the major government priorities. Removing the inheritance tax is another major priority implemented by the government, which cannot be shown to have any effect at all on employment or value creation. Another major priority the government has had is to phase in oil money at a pace that has not so far been seen in the Norwegian economy, and at the expense of precisely the land-based industry that the Minister of Finance is now pretending to be so concerned about. I notice that, after four attempts, the Minister of Finance will not answer why she is not willing to give equal relief, even if they should be administratively demanding, to those who are hardest hit by the crisis. Therefore, I do not think I would like to ask again, and I thank you for the change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2956	I want to answer anyway, because the truth is that the big money that has been spent by this government over all the budgets we have provided has not gone to tax cuts. They have made absolutely necessary efforts – to health, municipalities, road construction, education, to mention some important areas, and not least to maintain and strengthen many important welfare schemes that are of great importance to the Norwegian people. So I noticed that SV thinks it is bad that the inheritance fee is now history. Then it is worth noting to the voters that one of the suggestions for SV is to reintroduce the inheritance fee, which is a hateful fee, and as many of us called taxes on death.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2963	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2981	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e2990	First, I want to thank the rest of the Committee for a very good cooperation on this matter. The size and the financial committee have again concentrated on financial transparency and the fight against capital and tax evasion through aggressive tax planning or direct crime. I think the committee is often at its best when we work on these kinds of things. These issues lead to the loss of the welfare community by large sums of money. The problem is actually shared by all countries in the world, but in particular the OECD has started work on this, and that is the underlying work – the fight against the erosion of the tax base and profit movements – that the government is implementing here. When someone pays too little tax, the other person is left with a bigger bill. In addition to the fact that the community misses tax revenue, aggressive tax planning creates a major competitive disadvantage for enterprises that do not use these techniques. The local smaller Norwegian companies are losing in competition with the large multinationals. Therefore, the effort towards profit-shifting and income-shifting is also an effort to create a healthier and more efficient market and fairer competition. As I said, this is part of the government's follow-up to the OECD/BEPS project and an entirely concrete action, action 13. The Committee is very positive that the government has worked quickly on this, but at the same time is impatient to get the rest of the OECD recommendations started, as agreed in the tax settlement. This law will apply to multinational groups defined on the basis of the rules of the Accounting Act on the group and the obligation to draw up consolidated accounts. In this context, it is worth noting that there are a number of examples of companies hiding their own group structure through complex legal and financial arrangements. There is an overall committee that asks the government in the form of a note to pay attention to this issue and come back to the Storting at an appropriate time with an assessment of whether the definition given here is adequate to capture what is the intention, namely that all actual multinational companies should report. One might then recall that the tax settlement asked the government to start a work that contained just this, and if the Minister of Finance would have something interesting to say about it tonight, it might be interesting to hear how that work is. But it's not an absolute expectation here and now. In the Committee’s hearing, it was also stressed that the threshold to be covered by this law is too high — that was the opinion of many hearing bodies — and that many companies are not included. A majority, with the exception of the government parties, asks the government to assess this in more detail. The Committee is of the opinion that transparency and publicity are essential for combating capital flow and aggressive tax planning, and it is positive that this law obliges the companies covered to report to the tax authorities confidentially. This allows tax authorities to quickly check the information also through automatic exchange of information with other countries participating in this cooperation, which could detect and counteract capital flow and aggressive tax planning. This nevertheless prevents civil society, the press and the public in general from accessing the type of information reported, and therefore an overall committee proposes that some key figures be publicly available and not covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. A good debate on the functioning and perception of the tax system depends on this. The press also has an important role to play in detecting inconsistencies and fraud, which are not always captured by the authorities. It is an overall committee that chooses to resolve it in this way that the government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the government produces regulations, not in this law, but through the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act. The Committee agrees on the key figures to be reported and on who should report the same range of measures contained in this legislation, and we naturally respond to the government’s solution at the first practical opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3007	Work on tax evasion and aggressive tax planning has become increasingly high on the global agenda as well as on the national agenda. Unfortunately, many countries miss tax revenue to the community through this form of tax evasion. This is a challenge for all countries, but perhaps the challenge is greatest for vulnerable countries or developing countries with large natural resources, which lack strong structures and good institutions that can work to make values more beneficial to the country and to the population. Norway has an active and visible role to play in this work. The tax communication presented by the government last year and the broad tax agreement between all parties, except the SV and the Green Party, clearly showed that these are issues of both government and big business. Capital flows easily across national borders, and large multinational companies with complex organisational structures can almost end up paying little or almost zero taxes in countries in which they operate by aggressive tax planning. In addition to missing tax revenue, this also has an impact on the competitive situation between those companies that can and those that cannot make use of this kind of aggressive tax planning. Regrettably, those who are able to avoid taxation are generally given a competitive advantage over those companies that do not have that possibility. And it's, as the case-rapporteur was about, often less, national companies this goes beyond. However, in the context of a better tax regime, we rely on good and strong international cooperation. Therefore, cooperation on the OECD/G20 initiative, the so-called BEPS project, is an important project. It focuses on efforts to erode the tax base and profit movements. In this proposition, the government follows action 13 of the BEPS project. This implies that large multinational groups are required to provide country-by-country reporting for tax purposes to the tax authorities and that this report shall contain information on the distribution of income and taxes, etc. in the countries in which the group has undertakings. Here the tax authorities will have a schematic overview of the economic activity of each entity in the group and of the countries in which the enterprise is resident or established. This will both simplify and improve the quality of tax authorities’ risk analyses and controls. It is a threshold for the income of the group that shall exceed 6,5 billion. kr before the reporting obligation occurs. I note that the opposition has a note where they want an assessment after two years of operation of whether this minimum limit or reporting threshold is correct, or whether it should be lowered. Now it's like it's in the nature of the opposition to be something more ambitious than the government, but there's good reason why the Right has chosen to stand outside this comment together with the Advance Party. Firstly, it is important that countries introduce equivalent legislation, because it strengthens the credibility of the information, and it also takes into account the reporting burden on undertakings. Secondly, the rules of the BEPS project shall in any case be evaluated in 2020, in which case the tax authorities will also have some experience in the practical application of the legislation. Right-wing agree that transparency and publicity are essential to counteract tax evasion, capital flow and aggressive tax planning, and we support the fact that Norwegian companies covered by this country-by-country reporting are also required to report under the Accounting and Securities Trading Act on some key figures. Within the BEPS project, the information is reserved for tax authorities, but it is important that the government continues its active efforts towards profit-moving and aggressive tax planning – also by working for increased publicity around these key figures, including in the framework of international cooperation and by reviewing BEPS model legislation for land-by-country reporting for tax purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3032	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for the consensus that is currently in place, which is based largely on the consensus that has previously been reached in the Chamber. The adverse effects of illegal capital movements and tax evasion pose a major threat to the income base in many countries and it is therefore important to find good solutions to combat illegal capital movements and to make cross-border capital flows visible. With today’s decision, Norway is now introducing country-by-country reporting for tax purposes with effect from 1 January 2016 and beyond for the financial year. The Code is applicable to the largest Norwegian group and to subsidiaries and permanent establishments in Norway which are part of an international group with turnover of 6,5 billion. kr or more. The report shall include information on income, taxes and business activities per country and the principal activity of all companies and permanent establishments in the group. The group only active in Norway will not be included in the proposal. The purpose of reporting is to provide tax authorities with a better basis for preparing risk analyses for use in their control activities. As a general rule, reporting shall be to the authorities of the parent company’s home Member State and shall be automatically exchanged between the authorities of all countries where the group has companies or permanent establishments. Finally, I would like to point out that it is a unanimous committee that proposes that enterprises with country-by-country reporting obligations under the Equation Act should be subject to reporting obligations under the Accounting and Securities Trading Act for the information requested by the Storting. Furthermore, it is essential that the reports be bound by professional secrecy. The Progress Party has as its starting point that key figures for enterprises should be made public, but at the same time it is important to be aware of the consensus of the BEPS project that country-by-country reporting to tax authorities should be exempt from disclosure. Norway cannot and should not go beyond the consensus, and I am pleased that we have found a good solution to this through the reporting of accounts. We must not risk getting into a situation where Norway breaks this, and how the consequence is that we do not receive reports, while at the same time questions can be asked about our credibility in order to ensure adequate information for tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3043	Thanks to the rapporteur and the committee who have worked out such a unanimous position; I fully agree with the rapporteur. It has almost been common in these kinds of cases, and we continue the good trend with the settings we are dealing with today. This is not a small matter, because it is part of a larger work that should really secure the tax foundation in each country – and that is what we know is under pressure, it is precisely that. Transparency about the income and tax payments of companies is therefore a key element in the fight to secure the national tax base, which is once again the basis for our well-being. The fact that we now have a broad majority on the Storting, which adopts rules requiring large multinational groups to deliver a country-by-country report for tax purposes to tax authorities, is a good and important new step in this direction. In spring, the Ministry presented proposals that require large multinational groups to deliver a country-by-country report for tax purposes to the tax authorities. That's good. And then we in Stortinget have discussed this proposal and gathered on further proposals to strengthen open and good reporting from the companies to the tax authorities. It is mentioned by the previous speakers how we have ensured this without conflicting with the joint work being done, among other things. in the OECD context, namely that companies are now required to report also under the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act. Of course, what's happening internationally is important. From the majority, there is a strong call on the government to ensure that, in the OECD context and with regard to the revision of the model legislation on which BEPS is based, we are an active driver of further increased transparency. It is clear that we are dependent on consensus in this type of case, but I hope and believe that Norway will sit in the driver's seat to contribute to increasing transparency. Ultimately, this is what will ensure our national tax base and therefore also our well-being in the coming years. And we know how aggressive many companies are when it comes to tax planning that makes sure that you pay as much as you can where you go – where you have your port, to say it like that. I like the setting and recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3060	It has not been so many years since a concept such as country-by-country reporting was described as a practical impossibility. Since then, a lot has happened, and it's very joyful – mainly because the aggressive tax planning, the flow of capital and the tax evasion that's going on worldwide is one of the greatest threats to the well-being of almost all the countries of the world. There are absolutely incredible sums that are being avoided; there are powerful sums that could contribute to better life for most of the earth's inhabitants, who disappear and are exempt from taxation. Governments in most countries have committed a sin of omission for many years by not getting this to life earlier. It's good that we take a step further. It's using very smart methods to obscure the real cash flows in many big companies. That's why I'm among those who think that the thresholds should ideally be lower, and that transparency should be greater. I wish that the Right Party and the Advance Party were also involved in the majority’s remarks – but if they think a little bit about it, they will probably come after a while. Because this is urgent. Whole industries are also changing in Norway as a result of unfair competition. For example, Norwegian media have no opportunity to compete on a level playing field with global advertising agents who are barely paying taxes in any country and who have their principal seats in tropical paradise. It has to do something about it. It is not only out of solidarity with the countries represented by Meling — the poorest countries in the world and the middle-income countries, which are hit hard by this form of tax evasion — but also with our own jobs and our own business. Harmonisation with BEPS is therefore not enough. It's a good step on the way, but it's not enough. If there is one thing I want to demand in this debate, there is a greater will from the government to aggressively pursue new opportunities to ensure a more real, equal taxation of Norwegian and foreign companies. We had a little round on it. The finance minister likes to lower the wealth tax, the most redistributive tax we have in Norway, and the only tax that ensures that the richest of us pay taxes. Then you would like to resort to creative methods that the government itself states are very administratively demanding to get in place. But in this area, which is much more important for the survival of all Norwegian industries, the same creativity is not as strong. I wish it were, because this is a evil that must be combated, and we are in a hurry. I therefore believe that more needs to be done – firstly because progress in international cooperation against tax evasion, capital flow and aggressive tax planning depends on individual countries being offensive, leaning forward and demanding that more be done, secondly because, as I said, Norwegian business is dependent on us doing everything we can to stop the flow of billions that should have been taxed in Norway, but which ends up in a digital bank box on a tropical island. As the state is now, we don't even have an overview of the extent of this tax evasion. We have some estimates, but we don't know if they're accurate. Probably the darker numbers are even bigger. It is a major problem for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian workplaces, but it also means that some people have to pick up the bill. Each krone that a large group of people keeps away from taxing in Norway is an extra krone that people most have to pay in taxes. From this point of view, one would think that the incentives were really present for a Progress Party-led finance department to be in the lead in the fight against capital flow and aggressive tax planning, but that is not the case yet. This is a small step on the way, but I hope for greater effort in the government's last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3071	Through country-by-country reporting, tax authorities are provided with a better information base for carrying out risk analyses and samples of control objects, in particular in the field of internal pricing. This will allow the tax rate to sharpen controls and make more efficient use of its resources. The Government follows this up the agreement in the BEPS project and in the tax settlement. Let me stress that the government will continue to work with increased transparency, both through accounting reporting and driving in international forums. There is a cross-political consensus that transparency and key investor information in enterprises are important and desirable. Coordinated implementation of country-by-country reporting in the BEPS project is a minimum standard that all participating countries have undertaken to implement. An important prerequisite in this approach is that reports should be bound by professional secrecy. If Norway violates this assumption, there is a risk that Norwegian tax authorities will not receive reports from abroad and that our credibility as a contracting partner in international work to ensure adequate information for tax authorities is weakened. I will follow up the Storting's request decision and propose that enterprises with country-by-country reporting obligations under the EQU should be subject to reporting obligations under the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act for the information requested by the Storting. I will also continue to be the driver of increased transparency in the OECD revision of the country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities. There are few questions that are given greater attention in both OECD and IMF meetings, and I can assure you that in all the meetings I attend, I will address these questions. I believe that we should continue to be impatient. I believe that there are good reasons why this legislation should be continuously developed and improved. But the prerequisite for doing that is that there'll be a broad consensus on that. If it doesn't just end up as a good statement of intent, and then in a way, we haven't come a single step further. Let me also say that the Ministry of Finance is now working to initiate the notified evaluation of the country-by-country legislation, so that it can be completed by spring 2017. We sent a consultation proposal on amendments to the regulation on 30 September in line with the Stortingen's request. The proposal proposes that reporting agents should report more key information on their activities and fiscal conditions. The latter is also based, in so far as it is, on the proposals of the European Commission for amendments to the consolidated EU Accounting Directive. Let me end by saying that I am pleased with the broad consensus that is in the Storting around these questions. I think we have a cross-political agreement on the importance of these types of international rules. I very much agree with what the representative Serigstad Valen said. This is about securing the tax base for each country. Of course, it is important for us to ensure our tax base as a basis for further developing and maintaining good welfare arrangements, but it is even more important for very many countries with low tax incomes and less well-functioning structures that these things come into place. Taxing where the enterprise actually belongs could contribute to significantly larger income flows to very many countries with a significantly higher need than Norway. That's why it's important that we do this internationally. It is therefore important that more and more countries join these agreements. It makes it possible to have a much wider range of information exchanges, and it also makes it possible for us in the future to have fewer of the kind of scandalous revelations that we have had with a retrospective perspective. That's why we're going to keep working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3091	Now, in particular, the Council of State confirms that she is in the process and has a plan for implementing the Stortinget's wish to extend the regulations of the Accounting Act and the Securities Trading Act attached to the decision that Stortinget will take today. It's very positive. She also confirms that the government is working on a whole series of other work related to these questions. She also mentions that she will be a proponent of the OECD. That's when I get a little nervous about why the government's parties are not involved in the remark to assess the threshold. There is nothing there from Stortinget's side that it is necessarily wrong. Here, it is entirely in the government's hands to make an assessment of whether it is correct, whether there are too many who go outside, or not, and then come back to the Storting after two years. If you had done something like that, you might also be better equipped to take the same discussion in the OECD. I wonder if it's a perspective that the Council of State understands?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3098	I don't have any problems understanding the ambitions and what's in the majority comment. I noticed it. However, an assessment of the impact is requested by lowering the threshold by 2019. At that time, the tax rate will only have received reports for one year and in reality have very limited experience in using these types of reports. The OECD shall carry out an assessment of these country-by-country reporting rules in 2020. In my opinion, it is then most appropriate, both in view of the basis for such an assessment and the use of resources, to await that assessment until after the OECD has carried out its evaluation in 2020. So to conclude, I don't think we disagree that this perspective has to come up at some point, but we have to have good data to base it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3106	I don't disagree with that, and I'm not going to hold the council responsible for what her partymates are into, and not, in Stortinget, but one could imagine that if someone had mentioned to the opposition that a more appropriate year for such an assessment would have been 2020 and not 2019, one could have been inclined to agree to that. This could improve the setting. But now the Council of State confirms that this is something she wants to work with. Another thing I would like to ask is what I mentioned in the post, that in the tax settlement we agreed to look at how Norwegian law is equipped to deal with complex financial instruments and legal structures. I think it's an important work to get started on your own keel and could also be a driver in that area when you get to the OECD evaluations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3113	To the first issue: I have seen that the majority comment is about getting an assessment of the impact of lowering the reporting threshold, not about doing it. In order to assess whether to do so at all, it must be based on a reporting basis. Once again, I think we need some experience data to provide a relevant case complex to Stortinget as a basis for any further work on this. I agree that there is a lot of work that needs to be done with financial instruments through different forums, and I think we're following it up very well on all the venues we have the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3120	I think the statements of the Council of State promise very well, not least for the role Norway has, and has had, by being a driving force for increased transparency also internationally. Even within the framework of the revision of model legislation in BEPS, the Council of State was, as it was said, a minimum standard that we now rely on everyone to agree on for it to work. What is the impression of the Council of State when she talks to her colleagues and the authorities of different countries about the possibility of raising the threshold and thus helping to make this instrument more effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3127	I'm going to be careful to answer it very bombasticly, but the impression I'm left with after the discussions that are taking place around this particular OECD is that you're very proud that you've managed to get this consensus in place, and that more and more countries are joining it. It is an incredibly important starting point and basis for combating aggressive tax planning and, in particular, tax evasion. We've come a long way with it. Yes, it is a pleasure to have done so. And at the same time, you're very concerned about gaining experience. Based on experience data, the possibilities for further action can be considered at a later stage. But I believe that our role in being a driver for this should not be weakened for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3134	It might be tempting to ask which countries the Council of State sees as its leading allies in order to move forward. It is probably even harder to ask which countries she sees as opponents, but I can possibly hear what the Council of State chooses to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3139	I really feel that there are a lot of allies in this. Especially after Panama Papers and that kind of thing, I think it's going to be pretty embarrassing to be in a situation where you haven't joined international rules about these things, because you just get a very demanding floodlight on yourself as an individual country that has chosen not to join. This means that several people have now taken part and raised their voices a little bit more clearly in international forums. That's very good. I feel that most countries are very pleased that you have come as far as you have done. I would also like to say that the Secretary-General of the OECD is the one who is most eager to further develop this. It is clear that when the head of the organisation is such a powerful driver, it also infects the Member States, at least it is certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3144	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen gets the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3149	Thank you, President, I've been using my quota today! This is a problem that is so big that I have experienced several times that when you try to put words into it, it is hard to believe. The amounts exempt from taxation, not just from Norway, but from other countries, are so large and estimates so huge that it is easy to switch off. One problem we also have in the Norwegian debate is that it is difficult to understand what this actually means, that is, what sums could have been spent on welfare, roads, railways and police, but which instead end up in hidden bank accounts. I wonder if the Council of State has considered making this better visible, for example. in the context of the State budget. For example, the Council of State will: Take the initiative to get a more comprehensive and comprehensive estimate of what kind of sums we are actually talking about, which is exempt from taxation in Norway every year, and which can be involved and form the basis for the broader debate on taxes, economics and budgets in Norwegian public opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3156	Let me first say that over the last few years, we have used several tools that have helped to get money back home. That's good. Tax authorities report that many have made use of the option, and this means that money is returned to Norway for tax purposes here. That's very good. So the next question is, is there any reason to believe that this is very extensive, from the Norwegian point of view? I don't know. I have no need to go out strongly and suspect that there is a significant amount, but I believe that the scope that should be is what we should go after and find out, and not least bring the means to tax where they belong. You can make an assessment of the question to the representative – but I have not actually taken a decision on it, I have to think about it a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3163	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3181	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3197	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3213	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3229	Case No. 1 was the presentation by the Prime Minister of Norway’s contribution to the fight against ISIL. As previously adopted, the statement will be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3237	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 6-8, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 9-11, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 12 to 15, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 16-32, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 19, 28 and 29, from the left. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Head of Air Force, Air Force Staff and Air Operation Inspectorate shall be located at Rygge’. Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The structure of the area of the Heimevertet shall be established with 40000 personnel.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The operation team in the Heimevernet shall be established with 5000 personnel.»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3285	The system doesn't work, we don't get to vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3290	We're going to re-voting, we're going to vote with new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3302	The President will go to the next vote to see if we have the new screens with us. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and No 16 24–26, from the left. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The size is related to the future strength structure of the defence as described in the Left’s Alternative Table to the Proposition Table 5.1’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: «Order of 18 pcs. F-35 phase shift by five years.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The hunting battalion shall be built up at the garrison in Porsangs.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘Two sets of mobile fighting air protection are acquired.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3338	President! I didn't get a vote, the system doesn't work!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3343	Is there anyone other than the representative Lauvås who does not have a screen that works? – A number of the representatives are not getting a vote. We're also taking this vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3356	It still doesn't work!
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3361	The representative of Lauvås is being moved – he gets to borrow the neighbor's seat. Are there other representatives who do not have voting rights on screen? – It doesn't seem to be. The proposals are then put to the vote. 22, 27 and 31 from the left. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Air Force Programming Centre is located in South Africa’.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘An army reserve based on Rena Leir shall be established.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The defence workshop at Karljohansvern is sold.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3392	Lauvås’ voice is not recorded, nor is it the President’s voice. The President can now see continuously who is correcting what, on his screen. In the past, the president has had an overview only when it's been up to 5 votes, now it's a little bit bigger. So neither Lauvås’ nor Hemdal’s voice is recorded. So let's do this one again. We go back to the buttons, the buttons we've been using for three years in this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3408	Do the buttons work? – It looks like this. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 18, 20, 21, 23, 30 and 32, from the left. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The coaster command, tactical boat quadron and Skjold-class corvettes are part of a new coastal defence.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘DA-20 EK and VIP aeroplanes are phased out. 717 The squadron shall be laid down.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The EK support centre of the Air Force is continued on Rygge’.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Air Force Flotactic School shall be continued at Back.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘334 the squadron shall be continued on Bardufoss’. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘Defence camp at Kjeller with aerodromes shall be brought down.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The hovemoen clay is deposited.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3460	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a standing and self-mechanized battlegroup on Porsangmoen. Materials and human resources of this department are taken from today’s brigade system.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘Home protection is provided with additional resources to ensure annual training of six days for the solar data and nine days for the command.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3482	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to apply for the restoration of a national cereal storage system in Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3502	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Inspector General of the Air Force, Air Force Staff, Air Operator Inspectorate and Air Defence Education Inspectorate shall be located in Retan in line with the decision of the Stortinge. [[2011-2012]] Inner. [[2011-2012]] 388 S cf. Prop. 73 S The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3521	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The protection of the marine environment shall be established with a strength of 1200 personnel and an input force of 500 personnel.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3538	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Leopard 2 is modernised in line with the decision of the Storting in Innst. 337 S [[2014-2015]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3557	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Artillery is acquired in line with the decision of the Storting in the Inner. S 370 [[2008-2009]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3576	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Air Force School Centre with the Air Force Command School shall be continued at Kjevik.’ [[LSK]] [[ATL]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Head of Air Force School Centre shall be added to Kjevik’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3600	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The åsegarden camp is transferred to the municipality of Harstad’. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3620	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The current districts continue to protect the environment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3637	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Four paragraphs P-3 Orion is being modernised.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The five musical institutions of the defence are continued in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3661	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Andean Aviation Station is continued as the base for maritime surveillance aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the determination of any need for air protection and its costs for the continuation of maritime surveillance aircraft on Andøya Air Station and provide it to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3695	Behind this is the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3716	The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3732	The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the vote. The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3751	The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the vote. The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3769	The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3788	The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the vote. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3806	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced support for the adjustment. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3826	The Socialist Left Party has announced its support for the adjustment. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3847	The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced support for the vote. The centre party and the left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3865	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to initiate work on a reform of local authority competence in cooperation with the social partners, in line with Document 8:68 S.» [[2015-2016]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3893	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the KS and the employees’ organisations, to assess the implementation of a competence reform for municipalities.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3982	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e3993	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4002	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the professional responsibility for the implementation of medical age assessments to the Institute for Public Health as soon as possible and to ensure that the use of medical age assessments is always seen in an overall context and is used on an individual’s case basis.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4036	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of a research project for the development of a method for psychosocial age surveys.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4055	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to ensure that the age statements of case handlers in the Police Foreign Unit and the UDI are of good quality and that the age determination in decisions is made sufficiently visible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to ensure that the old-age opinions of care centres and asylum recipients are available in several cases.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4079	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present changes in the use of age surveys in foreign affairs which clarify that such surveys should only be used in cases where there are specific grounds for doubt as to the age of applicants for asylum.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4114	In the course of the debate, a whole series of proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to take action on a strategy for increased bet on Norwegian television series, in order to raise the number of newly produced Norwegian television series in all channels.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4173	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4202	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4214	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4228	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4295	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4305	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The government is asked to ensure that companies which, on the basis of the proposals in country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities, are also required to report under the Accounting and Securities Act, and that companies report income taxes paid and income taxes incurred, the number of employees, accumulated profits, profit or loss before tax expense, the sum of income from transactions with related/non-related corporations and book capital. II The government is asked to ensure that Norway, forward to the OECD revision of the BEPS country-by-country reporting model legislation for tax purposes, is an active driver of increased transparency, so that key figures for paid income taxes, accrued income taxes, accumulated earnings, pre-tax profit, the sum of income from transactions with related and unrelated enterprises and book capital can be published as soon as possible for all industries subject to the obligation to provide country-by-country reports for tax purposes, and that this becomes part of the international standard. In this context, Norway should be able to demonstrate that we practice transparency at the same points through our national requirements in the Accounting and Securities Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-11-15.ana.ud572e4384	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
