ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e94	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, has taken the seat. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e102	It is a pleasure to promote a proposal by the representatives of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Karin Andersen and myself for new measures to secure help and support for multiple families.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e107	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting is interrupted, if necessary, at noon. 16 and set again at 4 p.m. 17.15 on the occasion of the reception of the diplomatic corps. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e138	I want to thank the Presidency and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs for doing a very good and important job on this matter. I have a lot of contact with the Support Group for Survivors, Survivors and Survivors and the Foundation for New Investigation of the Scandinavian Star case. I would like to stress that this applies to a lot of people - many people who have had trouble with this matter for 25 years and felt that they have not been taken seriously. Not later than the weekend, I met one in my community who had lost four in his family, and who when I told him what the Storting would now do, expressed that it was very important to them. It is a great relief that Stortinget is now addressing the matter, going into a completely new and fundamental way, will turn all the stones and take the matter seriously. I have to say that there is great trust among the survivors, relatives and survivors that there has been such a thorough job of thinking through all the conditions that must underlie the Commission to make a reliable review of the whole matter: that you present a special law, that you will be obliged to witness, that you will also know that you will be able to get a criminal reaction if you give a false explanation, that all the public authorities will contribute everything they have of information and documentation – different conditions that are drawn up – and that everyone will be able to present themselves to the Commission. The fact that the size is intended to cover the financial costs provides a basis for optimum work. It is very good to read and good to see that a unanimous Storting adds up to it today. I want to say that even though 25 years have passed, and there have been many attempts to reopen the matter and many well-founded attempts by the support group of survivors, survivors and relatives and from the foundation to get through it over all these years, it gives a new sense of being taken seriously anyway -- something that also helps them in what they've been struggling with for 25 years and that they're not getting rid of -- what the Storting is doing today. As I see it, everything has been fixed in the setting we are dealing with today in order for the Commission to be able to do the best possible work during this year and a half. I look forward to it very much, and I just want to thank you again for the good settings and wish the Commission good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e149	No one else has asked for the floor, and Case No. So 1 and 2 are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e163	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be divided as follows between the groups: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e170	Initially, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the work on this big message, and the Council of State for close and good dialogue along the way in the process. In May last year, the announcement of the big business on globalisation and trade, opportunities and challenges for Norway in trade policy was presented as the first purely commercial communication of about 30 years. The Committee began its work on a wide-ranging consultation on 1 October, attended by around 20 business and stakeholder organisations. The Economic and Social Committee has also had its opinion before the Committee gave its final opinion on 2 December last year. The majority of the Committee subscribes to the government’s description of the opportunities and challenges of Norwegian trade policy, the main road choices and the need for adaptations to Norwegian positions as a result of fundamental changes and rapidly changing premises in a globalised market, 20 years after the establishment of the WTO. As stated in the setting, there are also some specific comments and minority comments that I assume the respective batches will explain themselves. No proposals have been made in relation to the vote. Norway is a commercial nation. Imports, exports and cross-border investments contribute to increasing our standard of living, affecting the structure of industry and creating jobs. Therefore, Norway is dependent on trade, but also on an active strategic trade policy that focuses on Norwegian interests. In the context of the Globalisation and Trade Notice, an overall committee has pointed out that few countries are more dependent on trade than Norway. We are a small country with an open economy, and are probably one of the countries in the OECD area that have served the most in global liberalisation of world trade. Free trade is definitely not an end in itself. Norwegian trade policy is primarily an instrument for ensuring value creation and employment in Norway, which is the very basis for the well-being and security of its citizens. At the same time, the Communication shows that international trade can also contribute to achieving foreign policy and development policy objectives such as peaceful cooperation between countries and better opportunities for inclusive sustainable development for all. It is therefore essential and essential for the government to promote freer trade and to pursue an offensive trade policy that focuses on Norway’s interests. It involves contributing to ensuring equal and fair playing rules in today's open global economy. It is absolutely necessary for the government to have an active attitude towards the WTO, the TTIP and the TISA negotiations. The preservation and strengthening of the multilateral trading system is Norway’s primary commercial policy interest. In addition, cooperation with the EU is essential in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s main free trade agreement and the floor plan itself in this cooperation and is of fundamental interest to Norway. 80 pst. of our exports go to EU markets, and Norway has now passed Russia as the largest supplier of gas to the EU market. The last decades have been a golden age for the Norwegian economy. High oil prices and high activity in the petroleum sector have contributed to growth and prosperity. The fall in the oil price suggests that the oil industry will no longer slow down the growth of the mainland economy and finance well-being as we have been accustomed to over the last decades. It will require substantial changes for enterprises and workers in the future. The new jobs and value creation must come in other and new industries. At the same time, we are very dependent on international development. The importance of trade for Norwegian value creation and growth has become more topical with the TTIP negotiations on a possible EU-US free trade agreement. That agreement could create challenges for Norwegian business by distorting trade from Norway to the contracting parties. How Norway adapts to such an agreement, if appropriate, is of great importance. Enterprises, organisations and politicians have requested information on what an EU-US trade agreement will mean for Norway. That is why the government has asked for an independent report on the consequences of these negotiations. This is essential in order to keep the debate open and not least evidence-based. Exports of seafood account for a significant share of mainland exports. Measured in value, Norway is now the world’s second largest maritime food exporter, after China. And the significance of the fish is nothing new in Norwegian history: access to the market for fish has been the main theme or motive since the first trade agreements were concluded with England in the 1200s. This is an industry in strong growth, with 7 pst. increase from last year. Access to the market for Norwegian maritime food exports is not based on the EEA Agreement but a patchwork of agreements and fixed-term allowances. For seafood, increased market access for fish is of great importance. Realising the TTIP agreement is becoming even more important. Norwegian seafood is currently loaded with about 2 billion. Customs duties, of which less than half in the EU. It is therefore important that the government prioritise new initiatives that could lead to increased market access and step up efforts to ensure free trade in seafood to the EU market. The income we have from exports of services is increasing and accounts for about 400 billion. kr, i.e. approx. 25 pst. of total exports. Therefore, it is good that the world is approaching a modern international agreement on trade in services – TISA. Since service markets have the same predictability in the framework conditions as the product markets have had for several decades, Norwegian companies can thus compete under the same conditions as foreign operators can in Norway today. Norway has significant interests in knowledge-intensive industries, and such an agreement will provide these industries with much better predictability related to international opportunities. Some critical voices have claimed that the TISA negotiations are closed and marked by secrecy. That's not true. The government's opening offer in the TISA negotiations is fully available at government.no. The size is kept regularly informed and when needs arise. The government has frequent dialogue with organisations, businesses and civil society. At the same time, we must respect the confidentiality requirements of the negotiating partners. Trust in negotiations is essential if we are to safeguard our national interests in the best possible way. With a changing global economy, the Communication sets out Norwegian trade policy priorities. In order to ensure value creation, it is necessary to actively exploit the opportunities offered by the existing framework, as well as to negotiate more and better multi-track agreements, with a strong anchor in the multilateral trading system. The Storting Communication points out that it is challenging for Norway when regional initiatives and negotiations have recently become more prominent, including: in response to the failure of the WTO. Norway is on the outside of extensive negotiation processes across the world's oceans, between the United States and the EU, and among the Pacific countries as in the TPP, with limited opportunity to influence development. Norway has no free trade agreement with six of the world's ten largest economies, among them the United States, China, Japan and India. It is crucial for Norway that negotiations with important trading partners we do not have an agreement with begin. At the WTO conference in Nairobi in December, negotiations on the reduction of the use of export aid for agricultural products were an important topic. Ever since the Hong Kong ministerial meeting in 2005, it has been clear that export subsidies should be eliminated. In 2005, a phase-out was foreseen by 2013 and agriculture also had to change in order to deal with significant tariff cuts and the reduction of general agricultural aid. In other words, there is a much simpler transition now than it was in 2005, and phasing out export subsidies cannot come as a surprise to anyone, on the contrary. The Globalisation Communication sets aside time until the end of 2019 for transition. It is clarified that phase-out is to be carried out in a way that ensures the possibility of gradual adaptation to the new competitive situation and the assessment of remedial measures. The signals on phasing out export subsidies have had an important impact in the WTO negotiations, namely to help put pressure on the few other rich countries that continue to use this type of subsidies. The agricultural industry is important for employment and value creation in Norway. The right is concerned with the predictability of agriculture, increased food production and food safety and safety. At the same time, we believe that there are larger markets outside also for Norwegian quality food. Norwegian agriculture has a number of advantages, where good food security, a low-budget domestic market and a number of high-quality products could help to make agriculture able to cope with change in trade policy conditions. Agriculture policy and trade policy must make Norwegian agriculture the best possible means of meeting future framework conditions. Agricultural interests shall not in themselves constitute grounds for preventing the start of negotiations. At the same time, however, the government is clear that in future negotiations it will continue to focus on Norwegian agricultural protection needs. I believe that the government deserves tribute for presenting this communication on globalisation and trade, and for facilitating a forward-looking trade and agricultural policy. The notification has again put trade policy on the agenda. It means a lot to business, to businesses and to jobs in a demanding transition time in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e228	In Sarpsborg, Borregaard, a world leader in chemicals extracted from wood, has 750 employees. 95 pst. of all they produce, sold to customers outside Norway. Norwegian Hydro sells virtually all the aluminium they produce to customers in other countries. Protan, with factories in Nesbyen and Sandefjord, produces tailor-made ventilation systems. Three-quarters of the output is exported. Nordox here in Oslo produces copper oxide for the marine paint industry, with 70 employees. 90 pst. sold abroad. Yara the fertiliser producer has production in Porsgrund and Glomfjord and exports 90 pst. to customers in 10 countries. Norwegian seafood produces 37 million fish meals every day. They also have to find the vast majority of their customers outside Norway. There are about 1 750 Norwegian ships loaded with cargo between ports around the world – service exports. Telenor has nearly 200 million customers in a number of countries, including the United Kingdom. in Asia, exports of services. That's how I could still have. Norwegian exports represent about 40 pst. of our gross domestic product. Several hundred thousand Norwegian jobs depend on having their goods and services sold outside the borders of Norway. Few countries, if any, depend on trade as much as Norway. Norwegian exports are a support for our high level of income, and therefore for our level of well-being. And when trade is so crucial, it is also important that trade can be based on international rules, a joint agreement and dispute resolution mechanisms. The World Trade Organisation is the central common framework. But bilateral free trade agreements are also important for market access and common rules. It has been a key element of Norwegian trade policy that we have prioritised the WTO. A unanimous committee supports the fact that it is still going to be our main line. However, the government must note that it is not supported by any parties in order to be able to sidestep the possibilities offered by WTO legislation in order to take legitimate protective measures, if necessary. This is expressed in a somewhat different way in the comments of the parties, but also the Government Parties and the Left believe that ‘Norway should not waive the rights enshrined in this Code’, as the Government stated in the Communication. Europe is our most important export market. About three-quarters of all Norwegian exports go to the internal market. That is why the EEA Agreement is our most important trade agreement. It provides certainty and predictability. If the law is broken, there is a dispute resolution mechanism in ESA and in the EFTA Court. The EEA Agreement ensures full market access for all Norwegian businesses, with the exception of the agricultural and fisheries industries, where, in return, we have opportunities to pursue national policies. Therefore, it is a mystery that parties that believe the last is one of the most important things to take care of, at the same time want to get rid of the EEA Agreement. They should be the prime guardians of the EEA Agreement because it meets the needs of industry for market access, while protecting our ability to lead the agricultural and fisheries policy we ourselves need to find sensible. One of the challenges of this solution to our participation in the internal market is fish. For fish, market access is regulated by a number of agreements. Norwegian seafood industry believes that this is not good enough. They are asking for new initiatives to ensure better duty-free market access, which will be even more important if the EU and the United States succeed in the TTIP negotiations. TTIP will increase the competitiveness of the fishing industry in European fisheries discs. For this reason, a large majority in the vote argues that ensuring better market access to Europe is a priority task for the government. The fact that there were some improvements in the agreements last year is good, but that's not enough, so my challenge to the government is: will it start a work to think new, like thinking outside the box, as it says, in consultation with the fishing industry? The safest thing would be if we got an agreement on fish that provides the same market access and protection as the EEA Agreement provides for goods and services. If we had had it from the outset, it would not have been possible for the EU to make accusations against Norwegian maritime food exports about price dumping for a few years ago. As pointed out by the Committee, the maritime food industry also faces sanctions and protectionist measures disguised as veterinary challenges. We must prevent our second largest export industry from becoming a caste for protectionism in various disguises in the years to come. A robust trade agreement with the main markets is then the main protection. Norway has 25 free trade agreements with 36 countries through EFTA and is negotiating new ones, including: with Indonesia, India, Malaysia and Vietnam. But a major challenge for Norway, as also pointed out by the rapporteur, is the fact that we are without free trade agreements with six of the ten largest economies in the world, among these United States, China, Japan, Australia and Brazil and their partners in Mercosur. What is the government's strategy for getting into a negotiating position with these countries? It is difficult to see in this message. And without a thought of how to do it, the term "offensive trade policy" becomes more a slogan than a reality. Investment protection related to trade and investment agreements has been re-examined. The government has sent a model for such a system in our free trade agreements to be consulted, but after the consultation deadline was wisely pushed on, we have not heard anything about how the work is going. Investments become an important part of FTAs in the future. It is also important to ensure the highest possible level of security around investment in countries where both the political and the judicial systems can be unstable. Investment protection clauses may then be necessary and useful, including as an instrument to ensure the same level of safety for Norwegian enterprises when investing in other countries. But I would like to stress that it is a prerequisite, as a majority of the speakers also say, for such agreements to guarantee both parties the freedom to regulate standards relating to working life, consumer protection, health and the environment without risking lawsuits from investors. There are illegitimate measures to be protected against, not the right to put into practice policy measures to ensure important societal interests. If an investment agreement meets these requirements, it is only possible to see when it is designed in the context of a free trade agreement. Those who had to worry that through such agreements we should refuse poorer countries to take action ourselves, and do, in order to protect people's health or the environment, I think forget that an investment protection clause applies to both ways, and the fear that we should exclude ourselves from political space of action should not be exaggerated. Finally, trade in services, the TISA negotiations. I think it's important to remember two things: Norwegian service exports amount to about 40 pst. of all Norwegian exports, if we ignore oil and gas. The Norwegian service market is largely open to foreign service providers, while other countries are much more protecting their market. To take one example that affects what is probably our most comprehensive service export, shipping: the American Jones Act that says that all shipping on the keel between American ports should go on American coolness – effective protectionism. This can be done by a country that is so large that it is much less dependent on exports than by countries such as Norway. Therefore, Norway has offensive interests in trade in services. It is a challenge that the debate on TISA is – I would almost say – the mythology, and I call for a more active participation in the government's public debate. It must not let myths confirm that TISA will become a one-way highway for the privatisation of our common welfare services such as school, health and care for the elderly. One of the myths that has emerged is that Norway and Iceland together have put forward proposals to prevent national energy companies from playing a too dominant role nationally. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has, in reply to written questions, cancelled this. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: has he considered doing what the EU is doing in the TTIP negotiations now, making all his recordings public? We also need to be able to do that in order at least to kill rumors that Norway is proposing things that it won't be upset about in this room. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is a prerequisite that a TISA agreement does not weaken the political space for action related to control and management of public services and welfare services. The contract must not place obstacles in order to regulate matters such as consumer protection, health, safety, the environment and employee rights. The markets for hospital services, public education and social welfare services must not be opened up to foreign providers under TISA and no privatisation, deregulation or outsourcing of any public service at national or local level must be imposed. Nor should the agreement prevent the reintroduction of public ownership and governance in sectors that have previously been privatised. In other words, the contract must not go beyond the scope of the EEA Agreement in the field of services. And once the agreement has been negotiated, and it is to come to the Ratification Summit, the government must make visible and make a thorough discussion of the benefits and challenges of a TISA agreement if agreement is reached and the agreement is to be ratified and subsequently put into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e281	The rapporteur has made a good contribution to the proposed changes to our positions in various international forums by the government. I would therefore like to focus more on the fundamental positions and the background to why international trade works. Cross-border trade works: International trade is generating economic growth. International trade creates revenues and reinvestments. International trade brings people out of poverty. International trade creates optimism. International trade gives dignity. International trade creates interdependence. International trade creates cohesion. International trade reduces the risk of conflict and war. International trade makes sense. International trade creates solidarity. But international trade can also create uncertainty and instability. This is precisely why it is important to have a regulatory framework in all areas, which ensures the interests of all countries. Not least, it is important – as the representative Hansen also said – that it should safeguard the interests of the smaller countries. On the opposite side of the scale, we find assistance: Aid creates one-sided addiction. Assistance creates passivity. Assistance strengthens inferiority complexes. Aid creates a 'the against us'. Assistance does not lead to economic growth. Assistance often leads to migration. Assistance often leads to corruption. But in spite of this, there are many in this room who swear to help. The more of the last, the better, some say. The more of the last, the nicer and more merciful we are, some say. The more of the last, the more responsible and thoughtful we are, some say. No one says that we should not use emergency aid, but someone believes that assistance is important – despite evidence that no country has made itself independent of assistance after receiving assistance. It is therefore not possible to discuss international trade without simultaneously discussing assistance. On page 8 of the referral to this case, there is an overview of the impact trade has had on the impact of assistance between 1990 and 2013. The figures are taken from the World Bank development indicators. The figures show that assisted regions have dramatically become even more dependent on aid. Of course, this is not only due to the negative effects of aid, but it clearly shows that aid is not the answer to getting people out of poverty. World trade has been eightfold since 1970. Global gross national income has doubled since 1990 and the number of extremely poor is halved. It's not because of assistance. International trade has given millions of people the opportunity to work out of poverty. Should international trade make sense, the conditions and criteria for such trade must be in place. This means that the richest countries cannot export only products they are able to produce alone. At the same time, the richest countries must be willing to buy the products that the poor countries — the MUL countries — can produce at more competitive prices than the rich countries can. If we are to benefit from international trade, we must accept the rules of the market for such trade. It is not difficult to find reasons why we should not follow such rules, and some of these reasons are not necessarily unreasonable. Security of supply and food security may be such an argument, but a somewhat deeper analysis of such an argument is becoming less relevant in a world where goods and services move rapidly and where alternative sources are many. The desire to limit international trade is mostly about protectionism for the sake of own production, the desire to maintain the status quo and the desire for everything to be as it has always been. The rhetoric has often been about settlement over the country, and that we are going to use the whole country. It's positive, but that doesn't mean that living and activity around the country requires protection of production and activity that's going on today. There is no reason why people in District Norway should not be able to produce goods that are in demand from the world market. For this reason, the government is proposing to phase out all export subsidies for agricultural products by 2019. The centre party and SV refer to the principle of international trade in the setting of scepticism. The centre party tries to ride two horses, where one horse gallops towards the international market, while the other rolls around the grass on green meadows in District Norway. For example, the centre party writes. that trade comes as a consequence of production and not as a prerequisite. Furthermore, they write that trade makes little sense unless you have goods that give a good balance in the goods exchange. That's right! As a consequence, countries must be allowed to produce the products they are capable of and where they are competitive. They must be allowed to produce more than national needs in order to bring in capital that can be used to buy goods they do not produce, and alternatively to use the capital for investment and well-being. International trade requires international legislation. This Communication reflects Norway’s views on different trade regulations. The general attitude is a desire to include and not clientise. The legislation must then be designed to provide the poorest countries with good incentives for production, and the best incentives are that there are customers who are willing to buy the goods produced. We are willing to buy those goods. We must avoid imposing restrictions on the production or sales of the MUL countries. On page 5 of the Minutes, despite Mr Hansen's remarks from the Chair, it is stated that it is the majority of the Committee that: ‘supports open trade in countries anchored in WTO legislation and considers that Norway, which is particularly dependent on an open trading system, should be at the forefront of introducing protectionist measures, but Norway should maintain the possibility of taking legitimate safeguard measures in specific cases’.» What is alarming, and actually quite alarming, is that the Workers' Party does not support such ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e369	Norway has a clear national interest in an international and mandatory trade legislation. It makes small and medium-sized countries that Norway less exposed to arbitrary use of power and discrimination. Norway is strongly integrated into the international economy. We have an open economy and a big foreign trade. We are an important exporter of goods, among others. oil, gas and fish, and a leading service porter in some areas, not least within the maritime sector. What's happening in the world economy is coming to Norway to a great extent. Globalisation and changes in international trade are therefore something we must face actively. We need to safeguard Norwegian interests, but not only that – we also need to provide solutions that benefit the global economy and the poorest countries. International legislation should take care of important values and concerns that are valid for more than our national self-interests. The importance of democracy and human rights in addition to the conditions for workers is an example of this – the concern for climate and nature as well. We have an interest not only in an open economy, but also in a fair and viable economy. One of the heavy trends in the world economy is the increasing importance of emerging economies in the south and east. China has become an economic heavyweight – in addition to the United States. Fortunately, we have a global regulatory framework in important areas through the WTO, and the EEA Agreement ensures access to the internal market in the EU. Through the EFTA, Norway has also concluded 25 free trade agreements with a total of 36 countries, but it is a challenge that Norway has no trade agreements with six of the 10 largest economies in the world, such as Norway. the case-speaker said in his statement. The rules on trade in goods are well developed and customs duties are reduced. The Code on Trade in Services is less developed and more politically sensitive. Negotiations between 50 countries on TISA are therefore important. The case is more relevant than ensuring good competitive conditions for our service. The Christian People's Party argued that the TISA Agreement should not weaken our democratic control and governance with public services and welfare. Last year twelve countries around the Pacific became some of the TTP agreements. This trading and investment agreement will affect 40 pst. by the world economy – whether it is ratified. Necessary negotiations between the United States and the EU on a transatlantic trade and investment agreement are still underway. The Christian People's Party wants openness, consistency and wide-ranging debate on such negotiations. These major regional negotiations have come about because the global WTO negotiations in several areas have taken place. In the field of agriculture, WTO negotiations have been under way for decades. It's late. At the WTO Conference in Nairobi, agreement was reached just before Christmas on the phasing-out of export subsidies and the tightening up of other forms of support for the export of agricultural products. For Norway, this means that our export subsidiars must be discontinued by the end of 2020. It provides Norwegian agriculture with one year more for phasing-out than the Government provided in the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Christian People's Party of Norway must use the extra time allowed by the Nairobi agreement. Our view is that such a phase-out should not occur unilaterally, but as part of an international agreement. There is now a need for consistency as a basis for the design of remedial measures. They must not only provide price compensation, but contribute to further operation and employment, for example. through other uses of milk resources. These remedial measures may be implemented in parallel with a phase-out phase-out up to 2020. This gives the unity of Nairobi no room for which Norway must make the best use of the action space for Norwegian agriculture and districts. I also register the distributed proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The Christian People's Party welcomes the proposals and will support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e397	For the Center Party, the message we're handling today is a paradox. The communication takes little account of developments in Europe over the last decades, and the challenges Norway and our neighbouring countries will face in the years to come. At a time when uncontrolled market forces have failed, the government presents what is probably the most liberal commercial notification Stortinget has ever dealt with. What kind of development have we seen in the last decades? Indeed, instead of more and better paid jobs, European citizens have experienced financial crisis, greater disparities, outsourcing of production, poorer paid jobs and falling employment. It does not come of too strong regulation, but of the fact that market forces are getting to play more and more freely. One thing I would like to commend the message for: it is definitely suitable for producing ideological dividing lines in politics. We in the Central Party have had a clear ideology for a long time: we are the People's Party in Norway. For us, it is obvious that a living rule of people is not possible without a strong and independent nation state. By sharing social goods and using Norway as a whole, we will ensure the security and well-being of every citizen. The most clear part of the notification is that it is far from facilitating Norwegian links with the trade agreements TISA and TTIP. In addition, the notification will weaken the Norwegian customs protection system. The purpose of the trade agreements TISA and TTIP is to regulate the right of national States to regulate. TISA will limit the ability of the EEAS to control who provides services in Norway and under what conditions. TTIP is likely to force a weakened customs protection and thus attack the 90 000 jobs we currently have in agriculture and the related food industry. At the same time, TTIP and new bilateral investment agreements will allow international companies to sue Norway in supranational courts. These agreements are not democratic. They're not meant to serve most people either. If the agreements turn out to be the way the leaks mean, I don't see how I, as a national election, can support such a weakening of the government. The biggest challenge and the most important task we have in the years to come is not to conclude more supranational agreements that limit our national space of action. On the contrary, the most important thing we can do in the years to come is to facilitate strong Norwegian industrial development and a broad national production base. We need to ensure national ownership of production and natural resources. Through national ownership, we provide tax revenues that keep the welfare state and community at bay. A government that will sell non-Norwegian forests, soil, fish or minerals is a far greater threat to Norway than a TISA agreement without Norwegian connections. The center party will do what we did when we built the Norwegian welfare state. We want to increase production, we want better distribution, we want to realise trade policy, and we want to strengthen the welfare state. Criticising the notification of uncontrolled market liberalism and the weakening of the national State is not against trade. Trying to make this a debate for or against trade is prejudicing the debate. The centre party will have trade as an instrument to ensure the security and well-being of its citizens. Free trade must never be used as a means of weakening the national State. What Norway needs today is more popular government, not market government. The majority are in the adjustment phase to phase out export support for agricultural products by 2019. At the WTO meeting in Nairobi before Christmas, a phase-out of such support was agreed by 2020. Norway should also deal with this and set the deadline for 2020. A phase-out of export aid will mean that Norwegian farmers will lose income. I assume that with Stortinget's goal of increasing Norwegian food production, there is a willingness in this room to ask the government to secure compensatory arrangements for agriculture. The most important thing is to stimulate alternative uses of raw materials and ensure the income base of producers. The proposal that has been distributed will do so, and we hope that the proposal will receive broad support in the Chamber. With that, I take up the proposals that have been distributed in the hall, which the Central Party and the Workers' Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e423	The representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e426	For me as a liberal, trade is basically good. The freest trade between and within countries is a strength for democracy, it distributes power in society, and it ensures that we have an economic development that combats poverty. This does not mean that all trade should be without regulation. No, I think a market needs strong regulation because it develops into monopolies and suppresses human rights and creates poverty if it doesn't get regulated. That's my ideological entrance. I also agree that it is important to have Norwegian ownership, not because I think Norwegians are just good enough compared to others, but because I think it is important that Norway has owner-concentrations that help develop business, and that helps to strengthen Norway as a nation in terms of creating well-being for its own citizens. But it is clear that we both need a framework to ensure that we achieve sustainability, climate and environment and human rights objectives, and that we ensure that we spread wealth in our country. The greatest possible free trade within this type of framework will contribute to the fight against poverty. Norway has a very open economy. That means that we, and our well-being and economic development, depend on us remaining a trading nation that trades with other free countries. Oil and gas have helped to create much of the prosperity in Norway, but gender equality policy has also been one of the cornerstones of the welfare state we have in Norway today. Maritime and marine industries have always been, and are going to be, of the most important industries for Norway in the future, and are among those we need to invest a lot. We are now in a situation where one salmon is worth more than one barrel. It says something about the growth potential of Norway for the future in the maritime industries and in our marine resources. It's important that we now move away from a time when we've been dependent on one raw material production, oil and gas, to have a much more complex business. First of all, we know that e.g. Our fish exports are going to be worth forever. The production of proteins will always demand humanity. But we also have to make sure that we don't become so monotonous in our economic development that we go from having one foot on in oil and gas to becoming dependent on another type of industry. The falling oil price and a new climate agreement show that we are in great need of conversion in Norway to become a renewable nation. Here we have all the possibilities to be in the front line. The krone course has also resulted in some industries going far better than they have done before. It's also one of the effects of the low oil price. Climate challenges and population growth also mean that we need to have our own and good food security, food production and food security policies. It's likely to increase in value for food production, but also for other biomass production, which is going to be important for our energy production. Good trade within a good framework and good agreements between countries leads to good economic development and poverty reduction, at least as long as we are able to build strong democracies, human rights and sustainability as important parts of trade. New technologies are leading to an even greater increase in value creation and employment in service production. That is why it is important that we have international agreements for this trade as well. There, we need to ensure consumer protection, health, safety, the environment and employee rights. Then I'd like to comment on the two proposals from the Central Party. The first proposal, I believe, is a direct follow-up to the WTO meeting, to which the Left is a positive one. The second proposal, I believe, belongs in budgets. I fully agree with the content and fully agree that we have an obligation to ensure that Norwegian agriculture has the opportunity to make that conversion. It's going to be left to use every opportunity to fight to get to, but if no one can come up with any good arguments against, we're going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e443	International trade has, and has, great advantages for the country participating in it. Norway is one of the countries that has had particularly great benefits from it, and continues to benefit from it. We are totally dependent on international trade. The same is true of potentially many developing countries if the trade agreements and framework conditions are passed on and done in a sensible way. Therefore, it is important that we continue to work for a sensible trade regime in a multinational framework. At the same time, the potential challenges are linked to international trade. Increased trade results in increased greenhouse gas emissions from transport. It can challenge conditions for working life, health and social standards. Therefore, the development of an international trade regime must be within reasonable social, health and environmental standards and labour standards. Let me go through some of the main points of the message and the comments that I think are central when it comes to this – first of all, how important the multinational framework in the WTO is. It can often be complicated for an entire value to be agreed, whether it is in international climate negotiations or in the WTO. However, there are many reasons why this is the best tool we have, and that we must be very reluctant to choose the other way. The most important thing is that if someone breaks out of that road, it legitimizes that others in other contexts can do it. For this reason, it is important to stick to it, not least because if large groups of countries were to become involved in agreements such as: contrary to the interests and views of many developing countries, it would be impossible for them to get anything done with it and move things towards their interests. The second is that I am busy that, in addition to preserving our own interests, we should also ensure that future trade agreements and progress in trade agreements are developed, that is, they can contribute to the development of countries in the south. Many of them will have a lot to pick up from increased trade, but just like Norway, and like for example. countries in Asia, which have been growing for the last fifty years, are important for strategically exploiting their home market in an industrialisation and in a growth period. Taking advantage of this possibility, which has been achieved by a large number of countries through significant progress and growth periods, it is important to integrate into trade agreements. When it comes to TISA negotiations, they are challenging in several fields. It's obvious that when it comes to the private services in Norway, we have a lot to do with them, because we, like, Hansen's representative was here, largely liberalising the service sector and private service provision more than others. However, the TISA negotiations are more similar to a new EEA agreement by not just referring to customs duties and import restrictions but to a framework. Therefore, it is decisive that we do not engage in processes that limit our potential to have a strong public sector or to have governance over the central community area in Norway. In my view, it is crucial that we can create a political debate and a openness on it in advance. Some argue that now we have to negotiate, so the agreement finally comes to Stortinget. But what we will be presented in that case is «take it or leave it». It is impossible to influence a process of fifty countries after a draft agreement is on the table. As in European policy, it is at an early stage that we can have an impact. My call would be to consider publishing all Norwegian recordings and proposals and actively taking a role in the public sector and in the Stortinget, for example. through publications where one invites to a debate about where we are now. Finally, I would like to say something about investment agreements and so-called investor-state dispute resolution mechanisms. Several parties have their own comments on the problem with them. We would once again encourage the government to show openness about it and come to Stortinget and address the problematic aspects of the model contract drafts that have been sent to us in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e459	First a little reflection on the importance of trade: if we start in 1990, the world economy has doubled in 25 years. Values are produced and created in the world that have doubled in 25 years. In the same years, global trade has increased by four times. I believe there is a clear link between the increased world trade – by four times – and the fact that global value creation has been doubled. Trade promotes value creation. In the same period, from 1990 to 2015, the number of people living in extreme poverty in the world has been reduced from 40 p.m. until 20 pst. In addition, there have been two billion people — more than those living on the Earth in 1900. The historic, unprecedented reduction in poverty and the prosperity of humanity we have seen in the last 25 years is not least based on the fact that we are dealing more with each other, that the various countries can take advantage of their comparative advantages, and that we are opening up markets to many emerging economies, where billions have lived in poverty, but are now integrated into the global economy. And we see that well-being is increasing. This has been part of a win-win thinking: if it goes well for another country, it's going well for us, and vice versa. Unfortunately, we have seen that in the last two years a little bit of zero-sum thinking, where protectionism is followed by nationalism and some populism. If it wins, it could be the end of the unique epoch we've been through with value creation and job creation. It is not that the last 25 years have not also included challenges and problems, but there is an incredible amount of at stake now to ensure that we have the same growth and development — including growth and job-creating growth — in the future, and preferably even more inclusive growth and job-creating growth, to say it that way. For Norway, the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, is a unique framework for trade. It is a multilateral system that ensures that it is not the strongest law in force, it is a law that applies to all countries that are members of the WTO, and it also provides opportunities for verification of compliance with the rules that have been agreed upon. I went with a big delegation to the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Nairobi before Christmas, and I have to say that I was very concerned about whether we should get a Ministerial Statement. We did. It is a WTO that remains capable of further developing policies and is also capable of having a negotiating arm. What we now want in the future is to be ambitious on behalf of the WTO, and continue to develop the World Trade Organisation as the real tool and framework for global trade. The mega-regional agreements mentioned, TPP, TTIP and others, also come as a result of the fact that there has not been any progress in the WTO, but as they develop, there is also an increasing pressure on the WTO to succeed in new agreements, so that we do not end up with just mega-regional agreements. Megaregional agreements can be better than nothing, but the best thing is to keep the WTO as the key tool. It is also the case that there are very important negotiations going on in the service market, and Norway has many offensive interests in this area. There are many Norwegian jobs linked to the service sector, and several representatives were involved: we have few defensive interests here, because we have opened up our service market through GATT and the EEA Agreement, and others, while others now have to open up so that our business life also has the opportunity to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e479	I gave the Minister of Foreign Affairs two challenges in my post, which he did not respond to in his post. He'll have another chance. One related to Norwegian maritime food market access in Europe. Although there have now been record exports and record prices for Norwegian seafood, there should not be a sleeping cushion. The marine industry is asking us to think anew to improve access to the market that is the closest and most affordable, namely the European market, where customs duties, among other things. is an obstacle. One question is, will the government take such an initiative and try to get equal protection for the fish as we have for goods and services? The second concerns the TISA negotiations: will the government provide even more transparency? We agree that it is not as closed as anyone claims, but will the government provide even more transparency by presenting Norwegian positions publicly as soon as they are presented in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e488	I'm asking for an understanding that in five minutes you can't cover all the issues and questions. I tried to give an overall assessment of where I think we stand in trade policy, and also of some of the main trade policy dilemmas in the future. To the representative’s question: I agree that we must ensure free trade for seafood for the EU. It is also mentioned in the communication that we will give priority to this in the future. I know that the EEA Minister and the EU Minister attach great importance to this, and that is an area she knows very well. As far as the question of TISA is concerned, as I also said, here we have many offensive interests, we show a great deal of transparency, and the Norwegian negotiating positions are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e497	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good contribution. We agree on the positive benefits of trade and how it has played a role in development, but I think it is also tidy by a foreign minister who belongs to a coalition, to comment on other Vice-Chairmen in the Committee, Christian Tybring-Gjedde from the Progress Party, his view on aid, which is that aid creates more problems than it solves. It is in case of violation of the broad majority we have in this Chamber on aid policy. From my point of view, the vaccine is of children, so that children survive, and the education of children is the basis for economic growth and production, which in turn gives trade. My challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about the Progress Party's view of aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e504	First, like Mr Huitfeldt, I would like to state that it is important to have broad agreement in Norway that we should use the WTO as the essential means of achieving good and predictable trade agreements for that country. That we agree on these priorities is important, and we have a very open economy. A little bit more surprised, I am that aid policy is now going to be the central issue of a reply on the WTO and the trading system. I just want to say that there is successful assistance, which we see good examples of, not least in stabilizing countries, so that they do not end up as failed states. But there are also examples of aid that do not work, and there is no need to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e511	Uruguay and Paraguay have chosen to withdraw from the TISA negotiations, and the Uruguay Health Ministry warns against the TISA agreement making it difficult to establish new public health services in the country. The Ministry of Labour warned that the TISA agreement could push the country to break the ILO Convention and further concluded the Uruguayan industrial, energy and mining ministry that the TISA agreement could deprive the country of national control over telecommunications networks, oil refinery, water distribution and also the banking sector. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that it will be necessary to have transparency about the negotiations when you get such alarming messages from other countries, who have also chosen to withdraw from these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e518	Firstly, I would like to remind the representative that it was the government in which she was sitting, at least as the Central Party put in, that initiated Norwegian participation in these TISA negotiations. And it was a very sensible initiative that I support. Not least, I think that initiative had its background in the fact that eight out of ten workers in Norway are currently working on services, and Norway is exporting services for roughly 400 billion. kr per year. Now that we are in that transition phase, it is essential that we also have access to key service areas where we can compete in other countries; it can ensure Norwegian jobs. And we calculate it so that we have got defensive interests, we've already opened our market. And as the message makes it clear: it is not appropriate to negotiate a privatisation of public welfare, or to give up the right to regulate this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e527	I would like to repeat my question: does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs see the need for greater transparency in the matter, so that people can actually understand what they are negotiating about, and what positions Norway has, when you get such clear signals about the alarming issues that are going on in other countries' assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e532	As I said in the reply to the representative Hansen, the Norwegian negotiating positions are presented. There's openness around this. We have few defensive interests. There is one area where we really have very offensive interests: we want Norwegian companies to have access to important markets where we see that there is growth in the service sector. It will ensure Norwegian jobs, and it will create new jobs, and we have openness around it. Then there has been concern about this, as the representative also mentions, from various agencies and from various organisations related to whether this will lead to a privatisation of Norwegian welfare, or that we cannot have the opportunity to regulate this area in the future. There will be no changes in these areas. I believe that this is an important agreement. It was initiated by this previous government, and we started with this. We hope to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e541	In a comment in the setting, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the SV raise the question of whether they are called investment agreements, which are currently being heard, and that there are quite a number of feedbacks that are particularly problematic about the use of so-called investor-state dispute resolution mechanisms. And then we write that we ask the government to do a thorough calculation of the benefits and disadvantages and to present it, present it to the Stortinget. And I wonder, none of the government parties, or the Labour Party, are on that note, but can the Foreign Minister still think of making a settlement of disadvantages and advantages and presenting it to the Stortinget in its own form? And if not, what's the reason why you can't do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e549	First of all, it is the Ministry of Industry that is responsible for these bilateral investment protection agreements, and the Minister of Industry has sent this out to a thorough hearing and is now considering this. But then I would like to add that investment protection agreements will ensure that there is predictability for business that invests. Norway invests an incredible amount of money out there. We see that we have large locomotives, like Telenor, Statoil and other important Norwegian companies like Jotun, and we see it with the DNV GL, and they want predictability of their investments. But then we also have to give that kind of predictability at home, and there are balances around this. For Norway, it would be beneficial to be able to ensure this, but it needs to be done properly, and that is what the Ministry of Economic Affairs has now provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e558	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e561	Norwegian business and value creation are one of the foundations of the welfare society. Norway is dependent on trade and has, in a historical perspective, been good at exploiting the opportunities offered by trade. In particular, the EEA Agreement is important. At present, many processes are ongoing both through the WTO and up towards the EU, and TISA and TTIP are becoming important to follow. In 2014, exports of goods and services amounted to a total of 38 pst. GDP. A significant proportion of imports are also inputs for exports of goods and services. Norway is thus served by open, well-functioning and rules-based international trade cooperation. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of supporting this globalisation through fair and rule-based international trade cooperation, with a focus on sustainable development, labour/human rights and a fair distribution. The majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee’s comments on this point assumes that any BIT agreement must ensure the freedom of the parties to regulate labour standards, consumer protection, health and the environment. In the light of the consultation, it was important for the Workers' Party to clarify this point by stating that when such investment agreements are submitted to the Ratification Trust, a thorough assessment of the agreement must be provided at the same time to ensure that it takes into account the considerations set out in the above note. We also fully support the government's launch of an impact study on the potential impact of TTIP. In the previous negotiations now taking place in different areas, it is also very important to ensure Norwegian agriculture and our ability to maintain Norwegian production throughout the country. In this context, the Labour Party shows that the food industry is the largest mainland industry in Norway, and the agri-food industry has an annual production value of 136 billion. kr. The industry contributes to employment and value added across the country and represents important activity that is central to the green shift. The size has repeatedly stated that Norwegian food production is to be increased, and it is important to ensure continued strong import protection as a prerequisite for maintaining agriculture throughout the country. We see it as important that the government ensures the competitiveness of the entire value chain through the continued functioning and foreseeable protection of imports. Trade policy must also provide room for development and growth for Norwegian agricultural food production. Before Christmas, the WTO decided to wind up export subsidies by the end of 2020. It's a year later than the government's planned. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important to stress that we from Norway do not come with unilateral concessions at this point. The WTO has now adopted a closure during 2020. Then it is surprising that the Minister of Agriculture is still talking about 2019. The same thing I noticed that the representative Tybring-Gjedde did in his post here today. In this area, compensatory measures must be in place to ensure both the volume of production that will fall off and the loss of revenue, as I noticed that the representative Hareide stressed strongly, and an assessment must be carried out along the way. That is why we have today, together with the Senter Party, put forward a proposal proposing that the phasing-out of export aid be carried out by 2020, in line with the WTO agreement. We're asking the government. ‘secure remedial measures to agriculture above the State budget, so that the compensatory means for the cessation of export subsidies are gradually increased as export volumes reach 2020’. We are aware that the withdrawal of the export aid could hit 8-9 pst. of Norwegian milk production, which will have a significant impact on rural farming in particular, where milk production is a carrier. This must also be borne in mind by the government in the current Article 19 negotiations. If these negotiations also result in a reduction in Norwegian milk production, they could have a very significant impact on both employment and value creation in the districts. Then I understand that the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre's party have been taken up earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e592	Norwegian economy is on its way to a new normal. When the oil fails, what will be the direction ahead, how will we meet the challenges we face? What are national interests in the current situation? There are many questions, but get sure answers. The oil price drop causes us to lose jobs with a very high value added capacity. The ideal thing would be that we could find new jobs with equal value creation. But with the exception of breeding, now that it is paid as well for a five kilo salmon as for a barrel of oil, this is very challenging. However, the globalisation message is a good guide. A sure answer is that further development of Norwegian trade in goods and services with other countries is a key prerequisite for further development of Norwegian welfare. Therefore, trade policy should be more prominent in the public debate. As effective and fair competition promotes efficient resource use and counteracts inequality, trade with other countries will result in individual nations developing their comparative advantage in favour of increased well-being, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said. The gain in free trade is thus reflected in countries developing over time a business structure that reinforces the natural advantages of individual countries. The challenge is that the gain comes over time and is not immediately visible, while jobs that have to give up become very visible. Norwegian business and value creation are the foundations of the welfare society. Without a profitable and internationally competitive business, Velferds-Norway cannot be further developed. Cross-border trade and investment are today much bigger and more important as a contribution to development in developing countries than support measures. The main obstacles to investment and trade in developing countries are the lack of democratic rights, education, human rights and equality, alongside the fact that corruption is destructive to development. What is also important for Norwegian industry is ensuring a safe framework for Norwegian investment abroad, including by resuming negotiations on BITs. We need to ensure safe framework conditions for Norwegian investment. That's what this is about. Parts of Norwegian business are active participants in, or even promoters of, development projects in developing countries. Norwegian agriculture has a high level of competence and can contribute to the development of quality production. For some of these projects, low Norwegian import quotas are a barrier to further developing the projects. Such projects should receive special attention when increasing and allocating allowances. Through such a priority, Norway can contribute to the development of sustainable agriculture, which meets our requirements in terms of quality, security of supply, food safety and antibiotic use. The government's signals to give increased priority to ensuring free trade in seafood are correct and important. The Industry Committee and the Storting have joined the Government's very ambitious objectives for the marine food industry in its communication. We have to have the ambition that more of the fish have to be processed before it is exported. This will improve overall resource use and can create many jobs. It is unlikely that Norway will be able to gain more free access to marine food without providing anything in other areas. It is therefore important to develop the framework conditions for all industries so that they are best equipped and prepared for stronger international competition. This is to ensure Norwegian interests in practice. When the government is phased out the export subsidies from the end of this decade, this is in the interests of the country. Norwegian consumers stop subsidising consumption of Jarlsbergost in the United States. There are also other good effects of giving clear signals to Norwegian producers so early. We are now receiving signals that Norwegian producers are already able to find alternative uses of the milk. Therefore, remedial measures, as proposed by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, will be able to slow down and, in the worst case, to stop the innovative processes already underway in the business world. Thus, an innovation process has been initiated in the Norwegian industry as a result of a notified trade measure. It is good for the future well-being of the country and obviously in the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e609	I think the foreign minister's initial reflections are worth including in the debate. But I am surprised that in his reply to the representative Huitfeldt about the importance of assistance in trade policy, he was so elusive. International trade policies are more than just inter-national trade. Good trade agreements may also appear as peace agreements. The precursor to the European common market, the Coal and Steel Union, is such an example. Countries that deal with each other do not go to war against each other. It was the driving force when Germany and France started to put the coal and steel industry under a common organisation. We who have lived for a while remember the debates on Norway's relationship with Europe through membership of the EEC in the 1960s, the EC in the 1970s and finally the EU in the 1990s. To say it a little neatly: it wasn't all the arguments that were used about those who had a opposite view than they had, who were as diplomatic. But the engagement was there – and is still there. Then, unfortunately, for me and very many others, it became a no to Europe. Fortunately, we got the EEA Agreement, and today most people in Norway have to admit that it has been a good thing for Norway in terms of access to our main trade market, which Europe is for Norwegian companies. Like most other countries in the world, Norway’s wealth and employment depend on participation in international trade. Our foreign trade is regulated by a number of agreements and regulations, which many have been involved in their contributions until now. Then we record that the debates on our relationship with Europe, TISA and TTIP have a great place in the political debates both at home and outside the world. It is healthy that our relationship with international trade policy should be discussed – it should be lacking. It's to the seventh and last my and your everyday life that are affected by what's going on out there. International trade policy is increasingly affecting our domestic policy decisions. Two good examples are fisheries and agriculture, which have been discussed by many today. Both are exempt from the EEA Agreement. Norwegian seafood exports for billions of dollars, and has gradually become a clearer and clearer player to Norwegian authorities in order to assist in reducing customs barriers for processed fish products. It is true that no one has avoided recording that agriculture is so clear that agricultural policy needs to be taken into account by not allowing for major imports of agricultural products from non-Norway operators. I understand both sides, but I also see challenges for both industries if you are forced to set these up against each other to achieve market benefits. In parallel, major international players are being negotiated on new forms of trade agreements. Many of these negotiations are about megaregional agreements. TTIP, negotiations between the United States and Europe, and TPP, negotiations between the United States, Japan and the Pacific region are examples of this. More power to the corporations and less to the people is an opinion many people use and not least fear of these agreements. We shall listen to such statements. How these, and especially the TTIP negotiations, will affect Norway’s trade policy remains to be seen, but Norway will be affected, there is no doubt. The major issue discussed in the Communication is the challenge of finding models to promote integration between groups of countries without leading to blockages and weakening wider international cooperation. I share the government's view that it is in Norway's interest that regionalisation is part of globalisation, not an alternative to it. Why? Well, because Norway's strength lies in our strong ability to adapt and convert the economy to take the opportunities that then emerge. This will also challenge our trade policy. We have to adapt to the changes that are taking place outside, but that does not have to happen uncritically. Sustainable development in all areas here is a crossroads that will not be difficult to agree on. I think the message is exciting reading. There are many themes that should have been addressed: cybersecurity, trade policy and sanctions, how the new sharing economy will affect current trade patterns and agreements, how what is referred to as the fourth industrial revolution will affect us in terms of massive innovation, set up against huge distribution effects. I then recommend that many people read Espen Barth Eide's chronicle in today's business. Trade policy is well anchored in debates and with active participation in all areas of society. It's an advantage for Norway. But as in all other areas of society, we get the best solutions by playing each other good, through openness and involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e631	Norway needs to adapt to the changes taking place in the world. Report. St. 29 for 2014–2015 precisely addresses a number of the challenges that we see happening out there. The representative, Gundersen, made a contribution to the ability, opportunity and, above all, the need for a transition to the Norwegian economy. We have to think differently in the years that come. At the same time, we have a number of industries that we are very dependent on in Norway, which are almost exclusively operating in the export market. When we look at where we now have the biggest challenges in the country related to increasing unemployment and negative developments, it is mainly along the coast – from Agder to the south and further along the coast up towards Trøndelag. What characterises business in these areas is precisely the dependence on international trade. The Council of State was committed to what has to do with fishing with our remotest largest market, which is the EU. Yes, then it's important that we make sure that we have a very offensive attitude about how we can manage to get even more freer market access for fish and fish products in the years to come. Then it is reassuring that the European Minister has the background from the government she has in order to be able to work on this. We passed 70 billion last year. kr in export income to the fishing industry. We have the ambition that in the next few years this will increase significantly. If we're going to be able to get the profit we want from the ocean, linked to both protein products from fish oil and other things that we're going to be able to get from there, we're dependent on market access, and Europe is our most important player in this regard. In the case of trade agreements, unfortunately, there is a lot of regional happening in these days. Agreements are concluded around which Norway actually remains on the outside. That's why it's important that where we have an opportunity to take a position, we actually do it. I am sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, together with both the Minister for Industry and others, will focus on just how we can connect to what is happening in the agreement between the United States and Europe. We're going to be affected by this anyway. Although we are currently sitting on the outside of the negotiating room, we must ensure that we have dialogue into the system, so that we can join in and get connected as quickly as possible. So it's also that we have to give priority to trying to put in place trade agreements with even more countries. It's India, we probably also have a significant potential linked to Indonesia, we have challenges related to agreements with Brazil and some other countries. Norway needs to go global in order to break down trade barriers. A relatively small country, which is dependent on good regulation at the same time as Norway, provides free access to the market. Market access and trade between countries are the most important means of bringing people out of poverty. It's not help alone that helps to get people out of poverty. Many aid projects have probably been successful, but at the same time we know that if we are to get people out of poverty permanently, it happens through trade – by enabling them to get their goods and services out of their own country to get export revenues, so that they can become self-contained and build wealth in their own country. That is what we need to ensure, and that is what we need to take into account in the international trade agreements. As far as the WTO is concerned, many of us wanted things to happen faster, more efficiently and so that we had put in place the big agreements. However, there is a lot of good contractual work that is already in the WTO system. The Progress Party and I are looking forward to the regulation and improvement of agreements relating to services and services. At the end of the day, the Progress Party will just warn us that we will be voting against the proposals that have been put forward – the proposals No. 1 and 2 – when we come to voting today. When the representative of Omland finds it strange to talk about 2019 in this context, he should read his own comments in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e657	There is a broad consensus that growth is a prerequisite for development. That is why there is also a development perspective in today's communication on globalisation and trade. Trade policies may include both foreign policy, development policy and industrial policy. Our starting point is that trade policy can help to move all three policy areas in the right direction. Norway needs – but also has responsibility – as an actor in the international trade market. Increased trade is precisely important for creating sustainable economic growth in developing countries. The world needs more, not less, global trade, work and economic growth in the future. Trade policy with a good framework is an important contribution to global growth and economic development, and world trade is intertwined in a violent system of wider and narrower trade agreements. Unfortunately, the progress of WTO negotiations – or lack of such – in the Doha Round may have just led to the emergence of more and more regional trade agreements, making this world web more challenging. Capital evasion and tax evasion are a global problem today, but we also see that a lot has happened globally. The Millennium Goals, which were just replaced by the sustainability targets, had a goal of halving extreme poverty by 2015. This has been achieved. There is one billion fewer poor people today than in 1990. However, there are major regional differences, and in the new sustainability goals that were adopted and signed — including by Norway’s Prime Minister — before Christmas, there is a much stronger economic dimension. Not least, the African countries have taken the lead in precisely strengthening this dimension. The same applies to the new and important objective, sustainability objective No. 16, which is about peaceful, stable societies and the rule of law, i.e. a good steering set. Good governance involves local tax policies and e.g.: the country's own trade policy. Indeed, development is primarily created by a healthy national policy, where political institutions and processes that ensure the distribution of power, democracy and human rights are at the heart of it. That is why this is also a very important focus area for Norwegian aid policy. For example, developing countries with heavy border and customs procedures are the ones that have the most to gain from the WTO Agreement on Trade Simplification, and it is very important that local authorities use their own tax base for development, whether they are revenues from natural resources, businesses or personal taxes. Increased trade can mean increased competitiveness, more jobs, increased income per capita and a way away from unilateral dependence on a few commodities. Least developed countries are marginally excluded from the markets due to customs barriers. Their main challenge is often on the supply side. Norway has a very shy zero-duty system, with all MULs — least developed countries — and other low-income countries having free access to Norway for all goods. For many agricultural products, it means a competitive advantage of several hundred percent. There we have already made recommendations that poor countries should have a substantial tariff advantage for their products on the Norwegian food market. Nevertheless, the import is message. For the poorest countries, compliance with standards, quality, security of supply and not least food safety is far too rare. The poor countries also need assistance in this area. That is why we are even more committed to trade-oriented development cooperation – Aid for Trade. Following the takeover of the government of Solberg, the U.D.’s support for trade-oriented development cooperation has increased considerably, and now we make a significant annual contribution to multilateral organisations engaged in technical assistance and capacity building in trade. In December, the 10th WTO Ministerial Conference of the Stack, as we have heard, went to Nairobi. There was tension about what would come out of there, but it must be described as a successful conference, even if the package that was the result was skinny in view of all the themes that have been on the table since 2001 – throughout the Doha Round. I think there is reason to highlight the consensus on further work under agriculture, with a security mechanism for developing countries, and on public food stocks. Food security is a core issue. Decisions were also taken in favour of LDCs in services and trade in goods and for their cotton exports in Nairobi. Finally, I would say that trade-based growth will create new economic opportunities and jobs, especially for women. It will reduce poverty and increase prosperity. Nevertheless, differences have increased in many countries. That's why we have to keep working for an inclusive growth that creates jobs, and that benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e687	Trade is more crucial for Norway than for many other countries. Many of the agreements we have concluded have first met with a lot of criticism, but have later proved to be absolutely crucial for our exports. Is there anyone who remembers the 1999 EU veterinary agreement and how large parts of the agricultural industry were very skeptical and thought it was going to cause major problems for Norwegian agriculture? It didn't happen. On the other hand, the agreement created great opportunities for Norwegian fishing exports and provided the basis for growth in the aquaculture industry. The Services Directive also – the warnings were many, but it was not as the critics had feared. The so-called GATT negotiations at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s – are there any people who remember that discussion? They were referred to as a threat to Norwegian agriculture, but in reality they have protected the Norwegian agricultural regime, and we could enter high rates of customs duties in this area through the World Trade Organisation. It would be wrong to assume that international agreements on free trade are a disadvantage to Norway. On the contrary, we have a lot to gain from a freer trade in many areas than we have today. Shipping, telecommunications and aquaculture are examples of areas where the Norwegian economy is entirely dependent on liberal trade rules, and we serve to increase competition. The TISA Agreement is also important for Norwegian value creation and employment, but it must be a prerequisite that a TISA agreement does not weaken the political space for action related to control and governance of public services and welfare services. And here we have the support of the EU – the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament has recently decided that nothing in the Service Agreement should prevent national or local authorities from continuing their legislation. Parliament also stressed that public services, such as: education and health shall have clear exceptions to the contract. As a small country, we depend on ensuring common rules and predictability internationally. Norway’s relationship with the EU has been based on the EEA Agreement since 1994, during a period when we have had a positive development in value creation, employment and well-being. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is important for Norway. As the Foreign Minister said, there was a bit of an unexpected discussion about the relationship between trade and aid during this big debate. If we look at how Norway has evolved, Norwegian development after the war was largely influenced by the fact that we both increased our trade with our trading partners and received extensive assistance from, among other things. U.S.A. With South Korea and Germany, it was the same. That trade and development are linked, and that there are no contradictions in these areas, seems pretty obvious, but from the batch that is now part of the government alliance, this does not seem as obvious. On the contrary, this discussion is used to go into frontal attacks on Norwegian aid policy. I appreciate that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is diplomatic, but it may be an advantage – as he is a minister, a government councillor, and a politician – that he shows something clearer about what he thinks about this contradiction. He responded to my post in the hall that he is for assistance that works, and against assistance that does not work. I think we can all sign it. My challenge is political in the frontal attack that the Progress Party is using this discussion to target Norwegian aid. We depend on assistance that raises the poorest. We depend on assistance that saves lives by giving vaccines. We're dependent on assistance that can promise education, especially for girls. So it might be interesting to hear what the Right believes about these questions, you might have been so afraid to take the discussion about the Goodness Board that you leave this discussion behind. I think it is important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as a politician, should, on such a question – whether there is any contradiction between trade and aid – express what he thinks. From the Labour Party we are for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e700	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e703	Myths and scares about trade agreements and the EEA Agreement often dominate the news image and debates on trade. It is given by some impressions that Norway can cope without the EEA Agreement and other multinational trade agreements, and that instead we should conclude bilateral agreements. However, a survey conducted by the Nations in November shows that 61 p.m. by the population, Norway does not consider that it should withdraw from the EEA. Distributed to batches, the figures show that there is only an increase in the centre party of the EEA scepticism. In other parties, including SV, the EEA resistance has become weaker, and in the Christian People's Party it is halved. Electoral researcher Frank Aarebrot’s comment on the study is that he believes the negative development in the Norwegian economy can lead to even more people saying no to cancel the EEA Agreement. However, yes to the EEA does not mean that there are yes-majorities to apply for EU membership. A survey carried out last autumn by the European Movement showed that 73 pst. Norway should become a member of the EU. At the same time, 62 pst says. they asked that Norwegian membership of the EU would contribute positively to the Norwegian export industry. People are consciously the importance of the European market for Norwegian products and Norwegian trade. We produce more than we consume in Norway. We are dependent on exporting, and our largest market is the European one. Over 80 pst. of Norway’s exports go to the EU and about 69 pst. Norway’s imports come from the EU. Small and large enterprises throughout the country are at risk of being hit by trade with Europe. It's about our well-being and the jobs of people here at home. At the same time, we see that the international trade policy system is changing. Several new trade agreements are negotiated. In the absence of progress in the new WTO negotiations launched in 2001, regional trade blocks are now developing globally. New trade agreements are being negotiated, of which Norway is not a part, such as the EU-US TTIP and the Pacific TPP between the United States and eleven countries, which have now been negotiated. And there is a new trade agreement for trade in services between 50 WTO members, including Norway. At the European Conference organised by the European Movement in November on international trade, those representing different trade organisations were concerned about what Norway is going to do in this situation. Norway’s Maritime Food Association expressed particular concern about the possible deterioration in and the more expensive access to the market for fish. Other concerns expressed about market access for Norwegian products in general. In this situation, it is not the answer to terminate the EEA Agreement or other trade agreements – or already say no to TTIP and TISA, for which some argue. As I started to say, there are scare pictures and myths that dominate the debate in Norway on global trade. The paper on commerce is a step towards getting a more informed debate, but that is not enough. It is important that the government takes a more active role in informing people most, as the EU does, and contributes to the transparency and inclusion of the important trade agreements under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e717	Today's debate has shown us that the world has largely gone from being a self-sufficiency economy and a self-sufficiency economy with barriers to trade to more open markets and more use of a trading economy. Each single country has been able to exploit and strengthen its advantages in this economy. The benefits have been better use of resources, and economic growth and well-being for participating countries have been achieved. Nevertheless, there is considerable protectionism in many countries. There are several people here today who are on the verge of Norway being a small country with an open economy. Fortunately, we have had our lucky and significant natural resources that we have been able to export, and we have been able to trade goods back to Norway that we have not had the same good intentions to produce ourselves. But without asserting our commercial interests offensively and purposefully, the export industry in a small country like Norway will soon face challenges. In good economic times, it may not mean much, but when we take over the consequences of the fall in the oil price for Norwegian jobs, other exports suddenly get a whole different value for society. Norwegian industries need new markets if these new industries are to give us the same prosperity as the oil industry has. At home, seafood has been offensive and has wanted market access, while agriculture has been more defensive and sought protection. How we want to align ourselves is a political choice. The time we live in, with the consequence of the fall in oil prices, has made the issue of market access for seafood more important. We are also listening to this debate today. The Doha Round, which was set to provide significantly lower customs duties on maritime food, has been postponed, and the WTO is to a greater extent complemented by bilateral trade agreements between countries. Through Protocol 9 negotiations, Norway achieved customs freedom and reductions in customs duties on some fish products in the EU, particularly whitefish, but for herring, mackerel, salmon, shrimps and pike, such admission was not granted. For processed products, such as: smoked salmon, is the high rate of duty, and for pelagic fish, such as herring and mackerel, the rate of duty is as high as 20 pst. The quotas negotiated with fish into the EU, across the EU market, are generally too small and unincorporated to allow Norwegian companies to venture to invest in processing here in the country. As a result, a number of countries and a number of companies have chosen to move the activity out of Norway and into the EU market, as a result of large market access challenges. So we're going to be a commodity supplier in this market as well. But I think we need to be willing to give something to get something back in these negotiations, and market access will help secure our well-being and create new jobs at a time when every job counts a lot – even in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e732	I have repeatedly experienced hearing the representative and committee chairman Huitfeldt's lack of policy, so that she has to ask different state councils what they think about Tybring-Gjedde. It's probably interesting for Huitfeldt to hear what they're going to think about me, but I just want to stress that there's probably a lot of government councils that disagree with my policy. It's like I'm running politics in the main hall and not in the lawn outside the Storting, and that's actually what the big room is, that's to be able to discuss politics and different venues without being charged with one or the other. It is certain that Mr Brende and the representative of Mr Tybring-Gjedde have different views in a number of areas. It is also the case that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has accepted the agreement that the Right and the Advance Party have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left to govern the government. It has not been said that the representative Tybring-Gjedde agrees with everything that was concluded, and in Stortinget I represent the Progress Party, the Party Programme of the Progress Party and the Policy of the Progress Party – just as the representative Huitfeldt represents the Labour Party's policy and not the SV's or the Center Party, I will accept. The representative Huitfeldt said from the pulpit that trade and development are linked. Yeah, just -- trade and development are related; that was my whole point. But trade and aid are not necessarily linked, i.e. assistance does not lead to an increase in growth. That's not documented either. Of course, 35 billion will. D over the state budget leads to a series of vaccines and a number of school programmes. But my point is that aid does not lead to growth. And if you want countries to become independent of assistance, you have to think differently – including them in trade, removing restrictions and import protection on the products that they can produce more efficient and more competitive than we can. Yesterday, the OECD report showed that Norway has the world’s largest import protection and restrictions on agriculture — we have the world’s most restrictive production of agricultural products. There's something of the "cluet" for how we can help the poor in the world who produce far more competitive than what we do. That's why we're running protectionist policies instead of pursuing inclusive policies, and so a few more countries are involved in world trade. No country has become independent of assistance because of our assistance. Of course, we have saved many lives, but we have not made the countries independent so that they are part of the world trade, and that is what must be the goal. In addition, the OECD issued the following advice yesterday: reduce tax reforms in the public sector reduce public bureaucracy remove import protection for agriculture I actually think that those who live in District Norway are able to produce other things. Even though they have been farming for generations, I think they can be effective, I think they can be productive in the areas in which we are competitive. I do not believe that all farmers in this country must produce agricultural products forever. I believe in them – I don't think they need protection forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e760	I just want to repeat what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was about – that Norway is active in the WTO context and has great confidence. There was a lot of play in Nairobi. It was about trust in the multilateral trading system and the future of that system. In fact, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have to have much of the credit in order to achieve a Ministerial declaration in Nairobi. It actually prevented collapse in the WTO, and it obliges its members to continue the negotiations. You have some things to do. Agreement was reached on the phasing-out of export aid, including the necessary conversion time for agriculture, and better safeguarding the interests of the MUL countries. In addition to the recently concluded trade facilitation agreement, Nairobi concluded an agreement on IT products that opens large billions of markets to Norwegian high-tech exports. In this debate, some, in particular the Central Party, have been concerned about criticising the active line of the government in trade policy, that TTIP is closely followed, the TISA exposure together with 50 other countries, that the government is a driving force in pursuing alternative tracks when there is a lack of progress in the WTO. In fact, one important point is that plurilateral negotiations such as TISA are based on WTO legislation, so that several Member States can gradually join, and that the agreement can become part of the WTO system. Not to pursue such a strategy when premises change and other countries position themselves will be a sin of failure. It will not be a good enough way to take care of the interests of the nation. It reminds me more of the strategy of stabbing my head in the sand and hoping that it will pass. For it is not just about entering new markets, it is also about creating more justice, more predictability and more equivalent conditions of competition. After hearing the post from the representative, Sjelmo Nordås, it is tempting to ask the Central Party if the party really believes that we should be ourselves enough here on the mountain. The centre party cannot seriously believe that Norway should no longer follow closely what TTIP can mean for us, that we should not work after the WTO track, and that we should not work for more free trade agreements. Does the Central Party really believe that we do not need export incomes and tax revenues from industries abroad in order to be able to finance well-being, in order to convert Norway, in order to secure jobs at home — including to have a framework to provide support for agriculture that is widely agreed in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e773	I think we have had a good debate on this matter. There is a large degree of consensus, and there is also a large degree of consensus on the importance of free trade for a small and export dependent country such as Norway. That's very good. The right has had many speakers in the matter, so I will not go into anything concrete in the matter. But it is that in the setting there are no proposals that have been made. On the other hand, it has been done here today, in the Chamber. It requires a explanation of vote from the Right, but it also requires – if I have to ask for it – a little clarification from those behind these proposals. If we look at the Storing Message on page 105, it says: ‘The Government will phase out all export subsidies by the end of 2019 at the latest.’ So that's December 31st. The proposal presented today states that it is assumed that this will happen by 2020. It is also stated in proposal No. 2 that ‘export volume is approaching 2020’. My understanding of this is that it's about one day. I have also understood that some of the parties that have supported this proposal seem to be just one day. It is a little important to clarify whether this is a whole year, or whether it is a day. The right-hand view is that what is stated in the notice is very well described, and that we will also take care of the interests that depend on it today through what is notified through the state budgets and the drop-down described. As Gunnar Gundersen from the Right also said excellently, the industry is already doing well, and it would be wrong to stop such a positive innovation process that is already in progress in the industry. Then there's a couple of glasses here -- maybe someone misses them. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e793	We have to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e796	To date, 2020 and 2019: since the notification and its processing, we have had a WTO meeting in Nairobi, where agreement was reached on ‘by the end of 2020’, while the Communication spoke on 2019. This debate has shown that there is a broad consensus on the basic positions of trade policy – with one exception, which I shall come back to. It is possible that this consensus contributes to the low level of debate on trade policy in the political environment in society, while a debate is taking place among some organisations. It is a bit unfortunate that the political environment is not ‘on’ in that debate. Here, of course, there is a special responsibility on the government. The exception is the Center Party. When I heard the contribution from the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås, who called the announcement market liberalist, it struck me that the terms ‘free trade agreements’ and ‘free trade’ are actually completely wrong. They're writing from the time the point was to reduce customs duties. It is really about regulating trade, with common driving rules, because – as the representative Solhjell said – trade can challenge the environment, it can challenge labour standards, etc. That is why it is important to have a regulation governing trade. And what is now increasingly involved in bilateral or multilateral trade agreements are environmental clauses, which are part of setting environmental standards, there are labour clauses, which are based on ILO conventions, or improvements, and there are rules against dumping complaints. I believe that the Central Party is also pleased that in Norway we had a WTO system to go to when the EU accused fish exporters of dumping. Today, the message came that China has received WTO support after the EU had accused them of dumping screws and bolts. So these are regulations. Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, said that the trade agreements and the trading system must be development-oriented. This is important — it is important to bring poor countries into the international trading system, into the value chain, if they are to gain economic growth. The Bali agreement that was concluded, which we recently ratified here in Stortinget, is about helping poorer countries to make trade. This is an example of how to help bring more countries into the world’s trading system.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e807	The pulpit is an important political pulpit. It surprises me that when I bring up a disagreement between the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party and the Right in the area of assistance, I am running and accusing people! Isn't it neat that we – when I ask for it – get answers from the Parliament's pulpit on what the Foreign Minister thinks about the Tybrung-Gjedde frontal attack on aid? I have read reports from the IMF – the Monetary Fund – and the OECD DAC, through Norad’s own evaluations, which show that assistance works. Not all assistance works, but assistance in general works and is a prerequisite for economic development. The representative Tybring-Gjedde has a different opinion. He says – and now the Foreign Minister has to listen – that there is evidence that assistance is not working. It might be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees with this claim, whether there is evidence that assistance is not working. In that case, we need an explanation from the Parliamentary Chair and a clarification of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e814	It was the representative Nesvik who made me speak, when he commented on my statement that I wondered about the Minister of Agriculture who is still using 2019. Then I just want to remind you that this setting came before the consensus in the WTO negotiations. We believe it is important not to grant unilateral concessions, but rather to exploit the space for action that is there in relation to the WTO Agreement. The government has to deal with this, and I also believe that we have emphasized it in our comments. It is not consistent and does the government believe it is sound? And what is the background for providing this in relation to what is in the WTO Agreement? To Halleraker's question about the explanation of vote, I just want to say that what is meant by this is in 2020, as we perceive that the WTO agreement is adding up. Then it can mean up to one year longer than what is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e821	I would like to thank you for a very good, committed and wide-ranging debate, which has affected important aspects of Norwegian trade policy. This is a topic that is often given less attention than its relevance to the Norwegian economy, businesses and working life. Trade policy is a central foreign policy. It is about important values, it is about development perspectives, it is about justice, sustainable development, the environment, etc., as well as business policy. Not for many years has foreign policy been domestic policy to such an extent and has so strongly intervened in other policy areas. The boundaries are being cleared. It is therefore important that there is such broad consensus on the broad lines of trade policy as what we see through the debate today. We've been living at and off the sea for a thousand years, it's been said. It started with fish and went on with oil and gas. Trade — including fish, oil and gas — and new industries are largely what we live on and will live on in the future. We're going to build on our resources, our assets and our strength to transform ourselves into a globalised market in great change. Norway is in the most challenging situation we have been in for decades. The oil price has fallen dramatically, unemployment is increasing, and there is a refugee and migration crisis that requires a lot of us – also financially. The security policy situation also has implications for economic and trade policy. Therefore, in a time of tough conversion requirements in the Norwegian economy, I would again like to stress the importance of the government working offensively to safeguard Norwegian trade policy interests. At the same time, I believe that the government is able to balance the conflicts of interest in trade policy between so-called offensive and defensive interests. However, we certainly cannot stand on the sidelines when trade policy changes – on the contrary. Access to markets outside the world is a prerequisite for continued growth in the Norwegian economy and for well-being at home. Ensuring an equivalent level playing field in Norwegian business for goods, services and investments in a globalised market is crucial, both for the income of the country and for the success of securing jobs and not least creating new ones in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e838	A short comment after the post from Mr. Halleraker, because he asked us to define what we will vote for, and what we will vote against, and how we define it solve the proposal. It is a little surprising to me that this proposal - No. 1 of the loose proposals – not unanimous. I don't think it's very practical whether it's 31 December or 1 January, but I think it's important that we relate to the dates we agree on in the WTO. That is why I think it makes sense, when the WTO has set a new date in December, that it is also followed by the decisions taken in the Stortingen. The left has the goal of eliminating all kinds of export subsidies, but we believe that this should be done in a way that allows us to convert into the industries that have lived of that kind of subsidies. Now we've set a date that leads to big shifts in those industries. I think it'll be positive and good. I have great faith in the Norwegian industries – including agricultural industries. I also think that we need to see if we need to take some remedial action, but we do so in the budgets as the challenges arise. That is why I find it unnatural to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, because I believe it is struggles that the Left fights in the negotiations on the budget every single time. So we're going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We don't think of it as a dramatic change, given the adaptation that has been made in international forums. We interpret it as the goal is to eliminate all export subsidies, but it has to be done in a way that satisfies international agreements, and so that we can convert Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e847	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e851	It is clear that every time I take the floor, I provoke violently. That's okay enough for me, but I think I'm reflecting on the people and saying what very large parts of Norway's people actually think, instead of sitting here in the hall – where everyone is going to agree completely with each other – and that aid is for everyone's benefit, because I really don't think so. They say that assistance works – but what does it work for? You have to know what it's working for! Does it work for economic growth? Does it contribute to less poverty? Does it contribute to more independence? Does it contribute to optimism? Does it contribute to dignity? Does it contribute to independence? The most important question, then, is: which countries have received assistance over many years are today independent of assistance? Trade works. Look at Asia and South America: There's trade. They rise out of poverty through trade. That's what you have to bet on in the future – not to increase assistance because you're trying to be nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e862	First, I would like to underline what several representatives have been talking about: there is a broad consensus on Norwegian trade policy. There is a broad consensus that this is important for existing jobs, but also for creating new jobs in a situation where Norway needs to change. This trade policy is based on the World Trade Organisation (WTO) on our EEA Agreement and on complementary free trade agreements that we develop through EFTA. We are following very closely what is now happening through a possible transatlantic agreement, the TTIP, and we are offensively based on the initiative that the previous government took, linked to, for example. TISA, which can open up currently closed markets for Norwegian trade in services and exports. This consensus, which the representative Svein Roald Hansen had in mind, could perhaps lead to less debate on trade policy than strictly deserved, because it is an important part of a future-oriented industrial policy and securing Norwegian jobs. Now that the debate is over, we may feel that we have had an aid debate, and I was challenged by the committee leader to take the floor to say something about Norwegian aid policy. I have brought with me the political platform, which is the basis of government policy, to be a little formal. It says: ‘The Government will maintain a high level of Norwegian assistance.’ In the adopted budget for the current year, we use over 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. But we know that there's a big difference in aid. It is aid that leads to development, and the objective of aid must be that a country becomes independent of assistance and that it goes from being a poor country to becoming a middle-income country. There are good examples of this. We know that it requires a wise policy in the country and that it gets rid of what it exports. So trade policy and market transparency are also an important part of development policy. But it is also essential to engage in national resource mobilization, which we agreed on at the so-called Addis meeting last summer, which was about financing for development, and that we collect taxes and have a good management system. Kenya and South Korea were at the same level of development in 1960. Today, GNI per capita is 30 times higher in South Korea than in Kenya. This is due to a combination of good policies, national resource mobilisation and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e880	In the debate, the representative Rodum Agdestein came with several eye-catching attacks on the Central Party. She has accused us of being ourselves enough, and that we will not give Norwegian companies market access through the new trade agreements TTIP and TISA. Time and again, we hear these strange attacks from government parties. Time and again, for example, we hear. TISA will remove ‘rods’ for Norwegian holdings. Well, when the representative Rodum Agdestein goes so high on the track, will I at least challenge the representative to the following: Can the representative refer to one concrete example of one Norwegian company that has met ‘rods’ in foreign markets that they will now release? We in the Center Party have asked for this time and time again. When drawing such a picture of a TISA agreement that would open up a number of possibilities, but without a single backside, one must at least be able to refer to one Norwegian company that would be able to export a new product in a new market that the company had not previously been able to export. With regard to the TTIP agreement, the government is trying – not surprisingly – to draw a huge scare picture. Well, what do the analyses that have been made of this say? Yes, of a total Norwegian export in 2014 of over 900 billion. Norway will be able to lose less than 1 per million in declining exports to the United States and the EU. What do we have to lose on connecting to TTIP? Well, we're likely to have to significantly weaken customs protection and attack a large part of the 90 000 jobs in agriculture and the food industry in Norway, as well as a 140 billion value chain. kr. Before the EU vote, the centre party was tried again and again to ridicule. Prophecies of judgment have been made repressive to shame. Will the yes side and the market liberalists be more humble this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e891	Thanks for the answer from the Center Party, but I was not more convinced or got it more clarified for that reason. It is not the level of closures in the international market that are the most important in the TISA negotiations. On the contrary, it is creating conditions of competition for Norwegian enterprises abroad, in the foreign markets, which are equivalent to those of foreign operators in Norway, which are the main score. Predictability, security and security of investment are what is central and we want to take care of through the TISA negotiations. In the case of TISA, it is also the case that the protection of essential Norwegian interests, workers’ rights, consumer rights, public services, is clearly excluded in the negotiations, so let there be no doubt about it. It is the central party's policy that is the major threat to well-being and to the state's income, so that we can have a high level of well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e898	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e927	I want to start by thanking the committee. There has been good and orderly cooperation and broad agreement on the notification and on Norway’s role as polarisation in the south. It has been interesting to be the case rapporteur for the Storing Communication on Norwegian interests and policies in Antarctica. It is very good historical reading that gives a little insight into Norwegian Antarctic polar history for us who are imprisoned by and interested in our polar regions. There has been no strategic review of Norwegian anarchy policy in the past, and there is no communication setting out the framework for Norwegian policy in Antarctica in recent times, so there is some historical suspense of this communication. The notification concerns Norwegian policies and interests within the scope of the Antarctic Treaty system with the Norwegian beelands Queen Maud Land and Peter I Øy. The purpose of the notification is to raise awareness of what it means for Norway to be a polarisation in the south and a claimant in the Antarctic. Norwegian Antarctic policy is about caring for our interests in an enormous geographical area in a variety of activities. The third biland of Norway, Bouvet Island, is located north of the scope of the Antarctic Treaty. The island is undisputed Norwegian territory, and the government has presented its own notification of the Bouvet Island to which I will return. Norwegian Antarctic Policy is based on upholding Norwegian sovereignty requirements and continuing international cooperation for peaceful development in Antarctica with the core values of peace, science and environmental protection. We are at a time when several actors are reporting their interest in various activities in Antarctica, and we see a significant increase in the presence in the area. It is therefore strategically important that Norway has a politically agreed governance document that respects Norwegian interests and Norwegian policies. I think the government has presented a message that embraces wide. The notification provides guidance and frameworks for a comprehensive protection of the Antarctic environment and associated ecosystems, with the preservation of the wilderness character and aesthetic values well anchored in knowledge and research-based performance requirements, while providing guidelines for the preservation of sustainable Norwegian industrial interests and resource management. I'll say a little bit about knowledge and research. Norway is among the leading polar research nations in the world, and we like to believe that we are the world's best in polar research. Norwegian Polar Research was ranked No. three for the Arctic and No 21 for Antarctica in 2010. For Antarctica, I believe it is important that Norway now takes a step forward and positions itself forward in this world championship. Research in Antarctica shall contribute to building under Norwegian positions, policies, management and industrial activities. If we are leading research also in Antarctica, we will be able to set the premise for the management of the polar regions. I'm sure with the knowledge of the Arctic and increased synergy with Antarctica we'll be able to continue to position ourselves. At the same time, there is an increasing interest in Norwegian research in Antarctica. The basis for this interest is the good infrastructure with Troll Airfield and the full-year Troll station, and competence and international cooperation, where research enables equipment and data across nationalities to be shared and exploited by each other's knowledge and material. Both the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute are key actors in knowledge development in Antarctica together with several other Norwegian research communities from the university and institutional sectors, and the Storing Communication facilitates this facility. Nutrient activities have a growth potential in Antarctica if managed with sound management in the vulnerable areas. Research is essential for Norwegian industry in Antarctica, and cooperation between research and business is important in order to strengthen further development and growth in the region. Norwegian businesses have long traditions in Antarctica, and Norway is currently active in fisheries and fisheries management, tourism and tourism activities, shipping, space and bio-prospecting, and I would like to say a little about these areas of activity. Krill and toothfish are an important economic resource for Norway, and the interest in krill fishing has increased among the Member States. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, Norway shall contribute to the development and efficiency of the fisheries management regime and strengthen the knowledge base for the sustainable harvesting of resources. In addition, Norway shall contribute to the further development of the sanctioning possibilities for the management of illegal resource withdrawals through, inter alia, international operational cooperation. Interpol. Tourist activity has increased from 5,000 to 20,000 tourists in the last 20 years. With an increase in research, fishing and tourism activity, maritime traffic in Antarctica is also increasing. There is currently a lack of knowledge of how the increased activity affects the natural and cultural environment. This must be found out, and the development of future tourism in Antarctica must take its form within sound environmental and safety management. Today, Hurtigruten is the largest Norwegian tourist operator in Antarctica with good experience of activity in the Arctic. The cooperation of Hurtigruten on Svalbard in tourism activities can have a transfer value to Antarctica and can contribute to environmentally friendly management with further investment in the tourism industry in the area. Antarctica is particularly well suited for the establishment of ground stations for satellites operating in polar orbits. The Norwegian TrollSat satellite station in Queen Maud Land is an important tool for data collection mainly used for Earth observation, meteorology and navigation. Satellites are particularly useful in resource and environmental management and for weather forecasting services. I am pleased that the government as a long-term measure in this international environmental and resource monitoring will facilitate further growth in ground station services and the receipt of data on TrollSat for international Earth observation satellites. In the case of bio-prospecting, genetic material is currently collected in Antarctica, which may have potential for commercial use, and this activity is expected to increase in the years to come. In order to contribute to the possible development of nutrition, it is positive that the government will work towards the development of legislation under the Antarctic Treaty system that facilitates the extraction and exploitation of genetic material within an environmentally sound framework. I would like to stress the need for Norway to work towards ecosystem-based, comprehensive management of the marine and terrestrial environment in the Treaty area, focusing in particular on the protection of vulnerable and valuable areas. The government will facilitate increased research cooperation with other countries to provide the best possible information and research results on what Antarctica means for the global climate system and on how changes in ice masses will affect sea level. Norway shall be an environmental priority country in Antarctica and shall work to ensure that Antarctica is as unaffected by the activity in the area as possible and that strict environmental requirements are imposed on all Norwegian activities. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Norwegian interests and policies for Bouvet Island. The purpose of the notification is to describe Bouvet Island and to provide a broad representation of different conditions in terms of framework conditions, management and activities on the island and in the surrounding sea area, where research and environmental monitoring are key activities. Bouvet Island became Norwegian biland by law on 27 February 1930, and Norway established nature reserves on the island and in the territorial waters in 1971. Eyes have been part of our polar identity and history. Norway will respect its sovereign rights and duties and continue to identify particularly vulnerable and valuable areas, and acquire new knowledge about the role of Bouvet Island in the marine and island ecosystem. Against this background, I am pleased that the government will decide whether action should be taken to improve the management and preservation of marine and terrestrial environmental values, while continuing Bouvet Island as a platform for research and monitoring of global ecosystems. There is an increasing interest in research and surveying of deep-sea ecosystems around Bouvet Island, especially in terms of metallic marine minerals. It is therefore good that the government will facilitate geoscientific research and map the scale of resources on the continental shelf around the island. Further monitoring of the seabed may also determine the extent of the continental shelf. Bouvet Island is located north of the territory covered by the Antarctic Treaty and is therefore not part of the Treaty cooperation. The Government therefore proposes a review of the Biland Act and other legislation for Bouvet Island with a view to updating and cleaning up legislation to ensure that it meets current needs in terms of the management of the area, including an assessment of its state-law status. Norway has long traditions of polarisation both in the north and in the south with industrial interests and political commitment from the 1890s to the present day. Norway will continue to be a clear and central player in the further development of the management of our polar regions, and the communication on Antarctica and Bouvet Island provides a good basis for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e980	Let me start with a thank you to the rapporteur for a very good presentation and review of the two messages that are being processed. We can, of course, also state that there is no very large political debate in Norway on these issues today. This has not always been the case, since there have been some discussions in particular about the conditions in Antarctica, but it seems that we have a broader political consensus today. Norway is a polarisation with long traditions both in the Arctic and in Antarctica. Nutrient activities such as whaling, fishing, shipping, research and polar expeditions in both polar regions have helped to shape Norway as a nation. In recent years, Norwegian and international policies have seen a large increase in interest in what is happening in the Arctic. The melting of ice, increased maritime activity and the emergence of international cooperation in the Arctic Council have been important factors in increasing attention to the Arctic. We haven't seen a corresponding increase in national interest in Antarctica. I think there's a lot of different reasons for this. Firstly, it may be that there have been established cooperation structures and international agreements for cooperation in Antarctica. Secondly, Norway is an Arctic country with a population living in the area, while it is very far from Antarctica, and it is bad with locals there – if you ignore the penguins and a few souls who are overwintering. At the same time, we have, among other things: through research and the capture of krill, noted that there is also an increased international interest in what is happening in Antarctica and the opportunities available in that region. I have also noted that new countries show interest in participating in the catch of krill. Climate research and the ability to read the climate of the past through drilling of ice cores are constantly giving a new understanding of the climate of the future, because one understands the past. That is why the international interest around Antarctica is also increasing. But the international interest is also drifting into Norway, at least to a certain extent. The establishment of Troll as a full-year research station, with royal visits at the opening and at the 10th anniversary of last year, has contributed to positive attention around Norwegian activity in Antarctica. Nevertheless, what is happening in Antarctica is still the most interested in a fenced circle in Norwegian society. Nor in Stortinget do we regularly debate Antarctica. It could be tempting to roll over how little we have actually dealt with the matter in Stortinget, but let us be very happy that we are dealing with a big message today. I think it's unfortunate that we pay so little attention to so large areas with so much potential, and I'm going to do my part to help Antarctica become more visible in the Norwegian public debate – although it's a long canvas to bleach and a heavy lift to take to get through. I want to pay tribute to the work done to get the Norwegian interests and policies in Antarctica in place. It's an important document that shows what's happened and how far we've come, for example. In addition, we are given clarification in the communication of the reasons underlying the Norwegian policy, which also reflects the core values of international Antarctica cooperation: peace, science and environmental protection. The communication also points — to some extent, at least — to what can be done to strengthen Norway’s position and international cooperation in Antarctica. This will mean internal review of legislation and clean-up in national legislation, according to the Communication. The notification also shows that Norway has played an active and important role in cooperation on Antarctica. It is of great importance that Norway continues to play an active role in international cooperation and has a leading role in cooperation. It is important for Norway as a polarisation that we follow developments in Antarctica closely, show active interest in the development of cooperation and are present in the region. Some words about the Bouvet Island Communication: This is a broad presentation and gives a good overview of the situation, and there is broad support for the need for a review and updating of the legislation related to it, both nationally and in relation to international positions. In the Communication, the government also mentions the consideration of making Bouvet Island part of the Kingdom, but the justification is – in so far as it is present – somewhat unclear. So you can ask yourself, is this a rash of a new Norwegian imperialism, or are there any other reasons? It could have been OK if some of the government's representatives could clarify it in this debate. In 2009, the Stortinget established a delegation for Arctic parliamentary cooperation. One of the tasks of the delegation is to represent Norway in the international Arctic parliamentary cooperation. In addition, the delegation participates in the national and international debate on the development of the Arctic in order to promote Norwegian views and interests. The work of the delegation has shown that there are clear thematic links between Norwegian activity in the Arctic and Antarctica. A common denominator is fisheries and sustainable resource management. In the north, our cooperation with Russia on the management of the cod in the Barents Sea is important and is in many ways a success story. It has been raised beyond doubt that research data on population size are important for the determination of quotas. The same should apply to the harvesting of krill in Antarctica, where it is important that Norway contributes to an adequate data base for setting the quotas. Another common denominator between North and South is the work of the United Nations Maritime Organisation, IMO, where we now have a polar code with requirements for ships sailing in ice waters. In the wake of this, the development of the cruise industry, both in the Arctic and in Antarctica, has been exemplified by Hurtigruten’s approach to Antarctica. In addition, we have the space industry, with KSAT as an important player around both polar regions, and not least research conducted in Norway by the Norwegian Polar Institute. In the field of research, climate research is particularly important, both in the Arctic and in Antarctica. Because these types of connections exist, the Arctic delegation also took the initiative of a seminar on Norwegian interests in Antarctica on 20 May 2015, where representatives of research, industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took part with introductions. There, these thematic contexts were well elucidated and further strengthened. In order to strengthen Norway as a polarisation, I believe that the Stortinget should also increase its attention to cooperation in Antarctica and Norwegian interests in the region. This involves first and foremost contact with Norwegian environments active in Antarctica in research and industrial activities. Such contact could be made by organising internal meetings and seminars in the Storting and other ordinary parliamentary work. Through its work in the Arctic, the Arctic delegation of the United States has developed a wide-ranging network of contacts that will be useful in increasing the awareness of the Greatness around Antarctica. The Arctic delegation of the Great Britain will continue to address issues related to Antarctica, especially where there are thematic links and potential synergies. Antarctica is a huge continent where Norway has significant interests. I believe that the Stortinget should have a more active role in the management of the area. In this way, the Storing Message is an important step on the way. We get back to how we place and shape formal responsibility – but Antarctica is too important for us to leave it to the executive state power alone. Polar history is an important gateway to make the common man in the street interested in the Arctic and Antarctica. The stories we've heard have shaped our national identity. Norwegian polar heroes such as Nansen and Amundsen helped prepare the basis for an independent Norway in 1905. They are part of the story of the nation of Norway. The museum shows this story in a great way, and we can visit Nansen's home at Polhögda. I believe the time has come for further development of Amundsen's home, Uranianborg, to tell the story of Roald Amundsen in an even more vivid way. Uranianborg was Roald Amundsen's home from 1908 to 1928, when he died with the plane Latham trying to rescue the Italian expedition with General Nobile. The house is as Amundsen left it, and is by the bottom of the fjord of Achershus. There we have a challenge in raising the story of Amundsen, and I'm sure that the representatives of Akershus in the hall will remember that challenge. At the same time, we must not forget the Norwegians who participated in the Norwegian whaling in Antarctica and the great importance of whaling for the Norwegian economy over a long time, especially in the 1920s and 1930s. International cooperation in Antarctica to preserve cultural memories from this time on is important. In today's societies, we can also learn some of Norway's misconceptions as a nation in how we managed the renewable resources we harvested at the time. Although there are many stories of heroes in Antarctica from a time gone by that has helped to make the national story, there is still considerable Norwegian presence and presence in Antarctica. Research, space, fishing and tourism are the bearers of our future Antarctic engagement. For 13 years Hurtigruten has brought tourists from South America to the Antarctic Peninsula, in recent years with the despatch ship MS «Fram». From next year, the company triples its guest capacity by also sailing MS «Midnatsol» southwards and then becomes the world’s largest operator of expedition tourism in Antarctica – within the framework of the environmental protocol that is in force and that prevents mass tourism. Antarctic krill is one of the world's largest marine biomass. Krill is low in the food chain and contains omega-3 fatty acids and proteins in a very favourable form. The krill is further developed into high value biotech products sold as food supplements, fish feed and animal feed. The lack of knowledge about total krill biomass is a problem for the management of fisheries and also creates problems for them as catches on the krill. There is a great need for more research on Antarctic krill. I believe that Norway, as the world's largest fishing nation in the case of krill, must take clear responsibility for the sustainable harvesting of marine resources in Antarctica. I therefore believe that Norway must take responsibility for carrying out a full survey of the krill population in Antarctica, in cooperation with other nations that have interests and economic operators operating in the region. The working party will therefore vote in favour of SV's proposal 1 in case No. 4, which is just about taking up such a research stick. In the light of the introduction by the case rapporteur, there will be a basis for encouraging the Right to consider doing the same. With the strong emphasis the rapporteur gave of the relationship between research and sustainable management of marine resources, there is a need to do so. The data we have is old, they're from 2001. Antarctica is important for the whole world, especially in a research perspective and especially in the light of the climate challenges we face. However, Antarctica also provides Norway with opportunities for significant industrial activities and further value creation. The assumption must be that it takes place in a sustainable manner and within a predictable framework. It assumes that the authorities will facilitate it. It is a responsibility the Labour Party is prepared to take up and support under.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1035	I'm not going to be near so long in my post, I just have a clue. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough and good job. And now I'm going to reveal that maybe the rest of us haven't been as thorough in working with comments, because on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left we have fallen out of a comment. It's the one that starts at the bottom of page 5 of the setting, and it's only as SV's comment – and there's some of the last comments that the previous speaker also had – and it's about krill and research in Antarctica. These are proposals contained in the alternative budgets of the Left at all intersections. It is probably that the next year is not ‘practically possible’, as the comment states, to implement such a type of move, but 2017/2018 may be the possible time to implement such a move. Then probably the Left will give priority to this in our alternative budgets, even when we are going to negotiate with the government, because we believe that this is an important piece of research, and that krill is something we need more research, so that we can manage our other fisheries resources in a good way. So it's a forgetfulness that we're not in that comment, and we'd like to be in on the proposal as well. I don't think I can say anything on behalf of the Christian People's Party, but at least I've been told to say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1044	Everything is forgiven – until the previous speaker. First, I would like to thank the case spokesman for what I would call actually an unusually thorough and good review of the messages here from the pulpit, and for the work done with them. Perhaps the importance of the administration of Bouvet Island policy is underlined by the presence of three state councils in this matter. At the same time, Stortinget has seen free speaking time on the case, and the diplomat is full of skilled officials working on these matters. I'll just briefly go through two reasonings and the basis for our proposal and our comments. The first is how important a holistic and ecosystem-based management of the key areas of Antarctica and the Arctic is to us – and to the climate and nature of the world. This is an extremely important area to regulate the climate. This is an area of special and vulnerable natural degradation and with important resources, but also important research venues for understanding the world's nature and environment better. It's pretty fragile global communities that are going to manage these areas, and not least in the Arctic, I think we have to assume that this could be challenging for decades to come. It is then important that Norway stands for it and the best possible jobs for international agreement to agree on it. Another reason why it is important to present these messages and anchor them in the Stortinget is that Norway should naturally follow our legitimate interests, whether in Antarctica, the Arctic or Bouvet Island, but with interests also comes responsibility, and Norway is a heavy player with a special responsibility for pursuing a responsible policy in the areas. Then we are at the third point and our proposal. The comment we have put in here is actually based on something in the message, namely that there is a need for scientific research into how the physical environment affects local distributions and the density level of krill, and how annual fishing affects this. So it's an increasing interest in krill fishing. It's a pretty important part of the food chain, and Norway is a very big actor. As the largest krillfish community, we think, we have a special responsibility to bring about new knowledge, which was also the representative Sivertsen. Therefore, because the knowledge we have is too out of date, and because we need up-to-date knowledge to be able to take full responsibility, we suggest that one take up the plans that were there a few years ago, about a new research stick. It says 2015/2016 in the comment, but to the representative Skei Grande's comment, I can say that it is not in the proposal. The proposal only states that ‘The government is asking the Government to resume its plans for research in Antarctica’. So if you agree with that intention, in the plans that have been, and the need that is pointed out in the message, it should be possible to adopt it in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1059	For the first time in history, a comprehensive presentation of Norwegian interests and policies in Antarctica is on the agenda in Stortinget. We have to go back to 1939 to find the last message to the Antarctic Storing. I understand that there is a great deal of interest in the Chamber, an important work in the Committee, and that the diplomatic lodge, which the representative Solhjell was also involved in, is filled with people who have a great and important knowledge of both the Arctic and Antarctica. In 1939 a discussion was held not least to inform the Storting that Norway had annexed Queen Maud to the country. Today it is to confirm and consolidate the long lines and the broad engagement of Norway as polarisation also in the south. The main lines of Norwegian Antarctic policy are based on a clear position on Norwegian sovereignty requirements, combined with efforts to ensure the smooth functioning and sound functioning of international cooperation under the Antarctic Treaty. I would like to highlight the following key areas of Norwegian anarchy policy: Norway has been central to the development of the Treaty system in Antarctica and has played an important role in the development of regional administrative mechanisms and organisations. Norway is one of the twelve original parties to the 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which would ensure peaceful cooperation on the continent and the sea areas around it. In 1991, we contributed to strengthening the protection of the Antarctic environment at the time of the conclusion of an environment protocol under the Antarctic Treaty. For more than 30 years, Norway has contributed to the sustainable management of ecosystems and fisheries in Antarctic marine areas by the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Living Resources, CCAMLR. At the same time, we experience a growing interest in Antarctica. More than 50 countries have acceded to the Antarctic Treaty, 29 of which are so-called consultative – or fully-fledged – members of the Treaty. This makes it particularly important that Norway, as one of the 12 original parties, contributes to ensuring that new parties understand and relate to the core values of the Treaty. Cooperation has been – and is – extremely successful. For more than 50 years, the parties to the Antarctic Treaty have managed a huge continent surrounded by a rich sea area through peaceful cooperation. Today, too, we see that countries that can stand far apart in other areas cooperate well both politically and professionally within the Antarctic Treaty system. We've seen the same thing in Arctic Council for a while. Norway is demanding large areas in Antarctica, Queen Maudland and Peter I Island. These requirements remain valid for the duration of the Treaty. No party can be presumed to have surrendered its claims, nor can new claims be promoted as long as the Treaty remains in force. The government emphasises that Norwegian anarchy policy should be designed in such a way that both the consideration of the Antarctic Treaty cooperation and our own interests as claimants are properly respected. An overall objective is to ensure that unique natural and environmental values are properly preserved. Together with the Arctic, Antarctica plays a key role in the global climate system. Knowledge from polar regions is important for understanding both the causes and effects of climate change. As Minister of Environmental Protection, I, together with the Norwegian Polar Institute, took the initiative to turn the Troll Base of Queen Maud into an all-year base. This was back in 2002/2003. The establishment of Troll as a full-year base has helped us to increase knowledge of Antarctica, and our presence is confirmed. I have to admit that that time there were counterpowers as it was going to turn this into an all-year base, but with the rich visitation development that has been in retrospect, I have come to realize that it is now beyond what can be called consensus around that we made this an all-year base. There was strong leadership from the Norwegian Polar Institute, who had a strong desire both to gather more environmental information and to underline Norway's presence in Queen Maud's land and Antarctica and the principles behind it, which led us through – first in the government and then in the Storting – to make this an all-year base. It was, in my view, an important decision to ensure Norway's clear presence. Norway is the only country in the world that has land in both the Arctic and Antarctica. We can rightly call ourselves a polarization in a double sense. Although the Arctic and our Northern Territory policies are closer, Norway has a long and uninterrupted history in Antarctica. As for the size of Queen Maud land and the natural values that lie there, it is of dimensions that are difficult to explain. It's beautiful, it's vulnerable, and it contains potential in the future for example. use of blue economy and blue fields. Norway is present as a research nation, as an environmental and portation and as a tone-setting trader. Within this commitment lies a strength and a potential to create synergies between the presence, knowledge and activity of both Antarctica and the Arctic. With this big message, the government is making it possible for us to benefit from these synergies, and in all modesty, I think it was high time – after a good few years of the previous report on the matter, 1939 – that one, with this government, was given this message. I also think it is good that there is a broad consensus on both the visions and the principles that Norway uses in this historical document.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1089	Let me first thank both the committee and perhaps the rapporteur in particular for a very good work on the communication in Stortinget. Of course, as a polar minister and constitutionally responsible for the Bouvet Island Communication, it is tempting to make a 30-minute speech on the Bouvet Island. I'll try to make it a little shorter. It's an exciting part of Norwegian history. The Bouvet Island was discovered by the Frenchman Jean-Baptiste Charles Bouvet de Lozier in 1739, but then the island disappeared more or less literally in the fog home – often fog around this island – and did not reappear until 1927, when Lars Christensen led one of the many expeditions to Antarctica. In 1927 they landed on Bouvet Island, planted the Norwegian flag and declared the island of Norwegian territory. Then in this house in 1930 a law was passed that defined Bouvet Island as Norwegian biland. I want to get back to that, but the report on Bouvet Island is therefore the first comprehensive statement to the Stortinget on Norwegian interests and policies for Bouvet Island since it became Norwegian biland in 1930. There may not be a great deal of national awareness that there is a part of the Norwegian territory on the other side of the world. The island is also considered to be the most remote island in the world. There are many who believe that Norway may be a bit pigish, but Bouvet Island is really pigish. When one looks at the front page of the message, and one sees where the eye is located – with this little dot right here on the other side of the earth – understands what kind of distances you're really talking about. The communication provides a broad picture of the different conditions of the island and marine areas around and of the policy we will pursue in the coming years. The island is an important part of our southern polar tradition and has often been mentioned together with our other beeland, the land of Queen Maud and Peter Is Island. These two are covered by Antarctica cooperation, but Bouvet Island is outside and is undisputed Norwegian territory. In this context, the Storting also addresses the government's communication on Norwegian interests and Norwegian policies in Antarctica. The work on this communication has been a good opportunity to gather knowledge about Bouvet Island and to confirm policy through a separate communication to the Stortinget, and with which the Stortinget is known, these were presented at the same time. It is good that they are now being treated at the same time. In this way, the government has now made sure to pool the knowledge we possess and the policy we pursue in our southern polar regions. It has, as I mentioned at the outset, not been much attention around Bouvet Island. It is also an objective of this Communication to create interest. It has been mentioned – in both text and illustrations – by the natural environment, geology and activities taking place on the island and in marine areas around it. Bouvet Island and the territorial waters around it are a nature reserve. The island is an important platform for research and environmental monitoring, and this activity has been widely discussed in the Communication. There is still a great need for knowledge of any resources and valuable values in the areas around Bouvet Island. The Communication confirms that, for the islands and marine areas around us, we will pursue a policy that is consistent, predictable, knowledge-based and anchored in the principles of marine and polar management. The main objectives are that the policy for Bouvet Island and the surrounding sea areas should be predictable, focusing on responsible, knowledge-based management, conservation of the natural environment and sustainable use of resources – that, in accordance with our rights and obligations as coastal states, we should take care of the unique environmental values of the nature reserve and facilitate knowledge acquisition and environmental monitoring. The government will also continue Bouvet Island as a platform for monitoring, research and environmental monitoring on the island itself and in marine areas around it. In addition, it is a main objective that the government will respect Norway’s rights and obligations as a coastal state and responsible resource manager by facilitating further exploration and monitoring of marine resources, including on the continental shelf. The Government also stresses that legislation and administration should be up-to-date and appropriate. The Government will review the legislation of Bouvet Island for the purpose of preparing and cleaning up legislation and administrative matters. In addition, in the Communication, the Government signals that it will be assessed, inter alia: the national legal aspects of the island should be regulated by their own law. Bouvet Island is a biland. It is Norwegian territory, but not part of the Kingdom of Norway. It is natural that in the extension of the discussion on a separate law for the island, it should be assessed whether it should change the status of apiaries to be incorporated as part of the Kingdom of Norway. There is no need to represent any substantial change, as the representative Sivertsen took up in his speech from this pulpit instead. The difference between Bouvet Island and the other areas that are currently referred to as bi-land is that there are border disputes or international disagreements about where to go. That is not the case for Bouvet Island. It is quite clear that it is Norwegian. Then there is a question of whether it makes sense to clarify it by making it part of the Kingdom of Norway, so that it becomes an indivisible part of Norway. However, there is something the government will come back to, and there is an assessment that should be made in the context of a review of the Bouvet Island Framework. As I mentioned instead, Bouvet Island is considered the most remote island in the world. It's the size of Nut Island in Westfold, and it's uninhabited, at least by humans. However, there is a very large population of both penguins and fur that characterises the community quite strongly. It also makes it relatively unlikely that one can expand the activity on the eye dramatically, because the presence of a rather aggressive fur species sometimes makes it difficult to keep the necessary calm and order in the eye. It is also usually covered in fog or clouds, and it has a steep and steep coast. Except for the Norvegia field station, which is only used for short periods during the summer season, there is no infrastructure there. All those who are going there must therefore be self-sufficient and have their own preparedness. The government will also aim to establish its own legislation on this subject in accordance with the Antarctica environment and safety regulations. In relation to the discussion that some of the submissions were about related to research, I would like to remind you that we are now building a new research vessel that is ice-cold and will be delivered in 2017. I am very pleased that, in its position, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence joins in unanimous agreement with the government's objectives for the management of the Bouvet Islands and the surrounding sea areas, and that there is broad support for the government's policy with this communication. This has now provided a good basis for further management of the small yet important part of Norwegian territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1124	The 8 minute-long Bouvet Island inauguration by the Minister of Justice has nothing more to do than to join the whole heart – more whole-hearted than what I have done for a long time when it comes to posts by the Minister of Justice of the United Kingdom. I took the word simply because I forgot to include SV's suggestions in my first post. I'll do that now. At the same time, I take advantage of the opportunity to support the representative Sivertsen pointed out, the home of Roald Amundsen for a long time, Uranienborg in Oppegård municipality in Akershus, which I myself have visited. It's a shame to wear it down. It's an important cultural memory. It is a museum under the Akershus Museum that now has great potential and that should be developed further. It may be an encouragement to the government to take on a great opportunity to combine culture and travel in Norway to take care of our polar history.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1131	The President will note that you can go to Fredrikstad and see at Roald Amundsen's birthplace, which is there. The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1136	I think we have had a good and exciting debate in this Chamber on a matter that – as others have pointed out – is not so often debated here. Nevertheless, our case rapporteur has received recognition for his work. From my point of view, I want to bring forward Sivertsen, who also has great knowledge of the polar regions, and who sits as the leader of the Great Britain's delegation for Arctic parliamentary cooperation. He raises a problem as to whether Antarctica also deserves more continuous parliamentary attention, which the Arctic has through the Arctic Council. I think this is an interesting issue and a recording that I think we should take with us. There's obviously more ways to do this, so I think we're going to take this challenge with us. With regard to the proposal from SV, which Solhjell was just up and promoted, and which has been supported by several – it is a little unclear to me how many things have gradually become – let me just say that the intentions of the proposal are very much in agreement with us from the Right and the Government parties, but we believe that it is quite well mentioned in the communication and in the remarks that we support something like this. It is even clarified that this could happen to the new ship, which is clear in 2018, and which is just about to have marine research in the polar regions as one of its main areas. Just to give the small explanation of vote: we are not against the intentions of the proposal, but we believe it is mentioned in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1148	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1162	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1169	This is a matter we have annually in this Chamber, and it is often expressed a great deal of agreement on Norway's role in the UN and the role of the United Nations in the world community. It is important to deal with such messages in the Storting, although it is the government's prerogative to pursue foreign policy and the apparent consensus in the handling of these messages. But it is not that a great deal of consensus makes policy uninteresting. The message is one of several reasons why the Stortinge has to provide guidance signals and often important input into the active UN policy of the current governments. There is a good Norwegian tradition of consensus in the broad lines of foreign policy, also towards the many agencies of the United Nations. This time, too, there are recordings from parties other than the unanimous committee comments that also form the basis for the overall view expressed by the Storting. These are shown in the setting. The main themes of the 69th General Assembly were instability and humanitarian crises in parts of the Middle East and Africa, the tense situation in Ukraine and conflicts in Syria, Iraq, South Sudan and the Central African Republic. This constituted a gloomy backdrop for the general assembly and marked the debates. Norway’s priorities in the UN have also been in these acute crises. These crises and conflicts have led to the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, marking both the foreign policy and domestic policy agendas in the Member States, and perhaps especially here in Europe. Other important issues at the General Assembly were the massive violations of the fundamental principles of international law on human rights that have taken place: the outbreak of ebola in West Africa, the escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that led to the war in Gaza in the summer of 2014, the brutal terrorist activities of the ISIL and Boko Haram terrorist organisations and the conflict in Mali. The 69th General Assembly also provided the basis for major international processes such as the negotiations and decisions to adopt new sustainability goals, the conference and funding for development — and the negotiations for a new climate agreement in Paris just before Christmas, which must be said to be a success. Norway must be an active voice in order to reform the United Nations system and share the view that UN organisations focus on performance and effectiveness in determining the level of contributions. Norway is acting constructively and critically against its use of resources. Norway shall continue to cooperate with regard to economic disparities and measures ensuring a culture of responsibility and strengthening its efforts for supervision and control. Some claim that the UN's lack of action today is a matter of the will of the major powers to use the organisation and its principles, but the UN's ability to engage the multilateral system is not only a matter of political will to cooperate with the Member States – the role of the United Nations as an actor and arena is the sum of what the Member States agree to make the United Nations. Norway should cooperate on the basis of international law, international law and maritime law as important pillars of our UN work. Criticism of violations of this and, in particular, the weakening of territorial integrity we have seen in connection with Russia's violation of international law and the destabilization of Ukraine is therefore of particular importance. International political stability and organisation are fundamental to meeting many of the challenges we face. We need to strengthen the UN's ability to prevent and resolve armed conflicts and to promote long-term peace building through UN-led operations. That's why we're contributing to a total of seven UN operations, and perhaps the most precarious of these days, in the operation MINUSMA in Mali. It is important to support the UN mission to Syria, Staffan di Mistura, so that his mission goes from a ‘mission impossible’ to a ‘mission possible’. Norway has a role to play to facilitate the continuation of talks between the Syrian authorities and the many opposition groups. Early efforts and peace building focusing on security factors, reform and the development of the rule of law are important as a core task for the UN peacekeeping forces. Democracy and respect for human rights are important in themselves. But it also provides a basis for societies where personal initiatives can generate growth and progress. Education for all is another important prerequisite for real participation in democracy. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, it is necessary to step up efforts in this area in order to strengthen women's civil and political participation. That is why this is a main priority for the Solberg government with the Prime Minister himself at the head. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a full democracy, nor exploit its full potential for growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1203	After the rapporteur's statement, it may be appropriate to wish the Prime Minister good luck with the new assignment she has been given to direct the work on sustainability goals. The UN was founded with the smoke from the ruins after World War II as a backstopper and founded by 51 countries to avoid war between states. Only weeks after – and actually before the UN Pact came into force on 24 October – the first two and so far were, fortunately, the nuclear bombs. They were released from the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. So the World Organisation started its work on a whole new challenge – the threat of nuclear war. The world had got a new weapon of mass destruction, and still it is that the work of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is one of the great and unsolved tasks of the world community. Today, the UN has 193 member countries. And with all its faults and shortcomings: the UN has been and is a success. The UN has shown power and authority. UN sub-organisations are the world's most important humanitarian development organisations. The UN has given us the decision on «Responsibility to Protect» under Rwanda and Srebrenica and Security Resolution 1325 on Women and War, which, incidentally, turned 15 on 31 October last year. It is during the UN General Assembly in the autumn that the world’s Heads of State meet for informal talks. The UN is the political arena when crises need to be resolved. As the rapporteur also said, the UN is and will be what the Member States make up the organisation. The UN must be the framework for ensuring and further developing a well-organised world, an international legal society based on universal standards, rights and obligations. But it is important that the organisation works as best as possible. Norway has actively committed itself to reforming and improving the UN, where Jens Stoltenberg also played an important role. It is positive that a Joint Committee emphasises the importance of efforts to improve the effectiveness and focus of the UN funds and programmes and of better coordination at country level. For many years Norway has been a significant contributor to the activities of the United Nations, while the accounts for 2014 have shown transfers to the United Nations system of about 10 %. 4.4 B.C.E. kr, has been reduced following the budgetary procedure of the previous year. This is an unfortunate development at a time when the United Nations budget is under pressure and the need for predictable frameworks is particularly strong. I would like to refer to the UNHCR, the UN refugee organisation, its work in the Middle East, where they actually lack money for what they are going to do. It is also positive that work on gender equality and on violence against women and sexual minorities and on the education and sexual and reproductive health of girls are among Norway’s most important areas of activity in the UN. The resolutions against violence against women and against child marriage are among the most important resolutions of last year. On the other hand, the fact that the G77 Group has produced texts on women and equality in several motions for resolutions gives cause for great concern and is something we should follow closely. In the coming years, the work to achieve the new sustainability targets will be at the centre. Among the objectives are precisely gender equality and the prioritisation of empowerment of women and girls, and much more, among other things. quality training and good health to all, ensuring clean water and access to sustainable energy, and sustainable cities. The UN Decision calls on all countries to draw up their own national plans for the achievement of sustainability targets. But how this is to be done remains to be seen. In my script I had written that I hope Norway will take a lead responsibility. Now, as I said at the outset, the Prime Minister has been given a very important task of leading the work on the UN's sustainability goals. Once again, I want her to be happy and also to add that with the sustainability goals, the 70th anniversary has shown real strength and relevance.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1220	I just want to show that the Progress Party also appreciates the work that the government has done in the United Nations, namely the focus on women's rights, equality and perhaps the most important thing: freedom of expression, and trying to spread the understanding of the values of our society, to the rest of the Earth, and in addition to what the representative Nybakk referred to in the case of the G77 Group and the motion for a resolution in which one of the texts has been taken out on these matters. The most serious and important thing that can happen is that you get real equality. Society that uses 50 pst. of its population to rule the country, does not work and will never be able to come at the same level as us, either economically or otherwise. In the middle of this, it is also worrying that the Human Rights Council of the United Nations is governed by undemocratic and totalitarian regimes such as Saudi Arabia and other Middle East countries, and that instead of looking at their own practices in these areas, they continue to adopt resolutions condemning Israel, no matter what Israel should do. So, among other things, they have condemned Israel's treatment of Palestinian women, while not granting any kind of rights to their own women. That's a strange way to drive. I hope that the government will continue to press the Human Rights Council and vote against all the possibilities they have to adopt such resolutions, indicating that our support for Israel is also firm in the UN context, that we dare to state that Israel is our friend and that we are Israel's friend.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1227	Since the UN Charter was negotiated in spring 1945, Norway has been a consistent defender of multilateral solutions and international cooperation. Also in 2015, the UN strengthened its role as the central global arena to find common solutions, in particular to meet climate and development challenges. There was an international consensus on funding for development in Addis Ababa, for how developing countries should not least increase their own ability to acquire resources – national resource mobilisation. There was agreement on the new sustainability goals in New York, and our Prime Minister has been asked by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to lead this group together with the head of government of another state. The Prime Minister has agreed, and this is now an important follow-up work in the future, with the global sustainability goals, which should be of at least as important as what we saw in the Millennium Goals. In Paris at the end of the year there was also agreement among all the countries of the world on a common climate agreement. This shows that laborious diplomatic work in the United Nations is taking place. But at the same time, of course, there are many challenges – from South Sudan to Syria – where the world is unable to unite on common solutions. Because when the five sectors of the Security Council disagree on how crises can be resolved, the role of the United Nations is often reduced to remedy – not solve – the crises. Norway — and the Nordic countries — must therefore press for the Security Council to contribute more to preventive diplomacy, to peace building, to resolve crises before they develop as Syria has done in recent years. We want decisions from the Security Council when serious violations occur. This paper covers what happened in the high-level week of September 2014 and the subsequent 69th general meeting. The Committee has noted issues in which Norway was well implemented — in the field of human rights, in the fight for equality and women’s rights, underlined by the representative Nybakk — and also the concern that we are experiencing that some people now refer to traditional values and talk about human rights and women’s rights for so-called Western values. These are universal values that were enshrined both in the UN Charter in 1945 and in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We have also stood up for education in crisis, good governance and global health. Norway is one of the most important contributors to the UN also financially, and we need to see this in connection with the historically high allocation we have for humanitarian purposes, where both the UN Food Programme and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees are important recipients of beyond 5 billion. kr, which will be allocated to humanitarian aid this year. I also welcome the agreement in the United Kingdom on the importance of Norway's work on reform of the UN, including on the development side. Much has been done in the form of better performance reporting by individual organisations and considerable efforts across UN organisations. 2016 is an important year for furthering the reform process, because Member States are to negotiate a new framework resolution on the UN operational activities. For spring – in Istanbul in May – there is also a large meeting on a more coordinated humanitarian effort, how to make the different parts of the United Nations play even better with those with humanitarian responsibility. When you're in the middle of asymmetrical challenges, like Lebanon and Jordan, where one in four is a Syrian refugee in Lebanon, you can't just point out that this is a middle-income country. It is a country facing unprecedented challenges, and where developmental elements and Bretton Woods, and not least the humanitarian, must be used. Norway has prioritised holding high core contributions to provide the necessary space for action to the United Nations Development System. However, in a depressed economic situation in large parts of the world, it is important that UN organisations continue to sharpen efforts on their merits and that efficiency efforts continue to be strengthened. The UN is facing major challenges in 2016. Norway remains an important partner in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1248	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 7, 8 and 9 are dealt with as a whole – and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1286	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1293	Let me start today's treatment of the two Nordic matters, no. 8 and 9 as the rapporteur of the matter, thanking the Committee for good cooperation and good input on the occasion of the cases. The Nordic is close to us – said more banally: we have a good and safe «neighbourhood», with neighbours we cooperate and talk well with. As late as the weekend, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of our King and Queen on the throne, so we too – symbolically heavy, I would say – that the Swedish and Danish monarchs were present and participated in the celebrations. The Norwegian Government has high priorities for Nordic cooperation. The Government of Solberg’s political platform states that it is an objective to strengthen Nordic cooperation, including formal cooperation within the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic countries are our closest friends and key partners. We share the same basic challenges, whether in terms of competitiveness, green growth and migration to low-carbon societies or security, migration and integration. Common challenges, geographical proximity, common history, traditions, languages, culture and values provide a solid basis for cooperation. In addition, we have common institutions. The Nordic Council of Ministers has been the central platform for Nordic cooperation for many decades. Nordic cooperation should become more visible, more concrete and more topical. The structures of cooperation should be better exploited. We in the Nordic region have clear national and regional interests. In these days, there is a lot of talk about European border cooperation. In the North, we've been moving without passports between our countries for many decades, indeed since 1957. In recent years, the Nordic Council of Ministers has undergone a comprehensive modernisation process. The aim is for the organisation to deliver good results on current issues facing the Nordic governments, and thus also to be better equipped to meet future challenges for the Nordic region. This also means linking the agenda of the Nordic Council of Ministers to the European agenda, in relation to the government's active European policy. There is a potential for more common Nordic European policy – not just because the EU is important to us in the Nordic region, and because three-quarters of Norwegian exports go to the EU. But the Nordic region is also important for the EU. Experience with Europe’s long-standing economic crisis, the competitiveness and migration challenges for many European countries, as well as the current migration, inclusion and integration challenges show that the Nordic region has examples to offer. At the same time, we see that the borders of Europe and the Nordic countries are under pressure. The Nordic region has been a precursor region of the EU for free movement and free border crossings. At the same time, we have to assume that the control measures that our governments have had to introduce recently could affect the free movement of our Nordic countries. For the first time since the 1950s, we have had to reach, for example: persons crossing Øresund are legitimising. Closer Nordic European political cooperation is important for Norway. Important interests and values are under pressure in the EU. More Nordic cooperation in the European arena will strengthen the possibilities for impact. Therefore, it is good that Finland, as a Presidency country in 2016, has taken the initiative of the Council of Ministers on ‘more Nordic synergies in Europe’. Over the last few years, we have seen an increasing awareness of foreign, security and defence cooperation in the Nordic context. Different forms of association with the EU and NATO do not prevent stronger cooperation in these areas. We have also seen that foreign policy issues are to some extent addressed to the Council of Ministers through specific projects, such as: strategic communication and democracy and anti-radicalisation. That's good. I believe it is important to see links and to exploit the Council of Ministers also in terms of foreign policy and European policy. However, this does not mean that we should integrate foreign policy into the formal structures of the Nordic Council of Ministers, which would in turn require a change to the Helsinki Agreement. A comprehensive Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence agrees that the cornerstone of Nordic cooperation is precisely based on the Helsinki Agreement. It is essential that the agenda be set by politicians and that cooperation in the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers are actively used to bring benefits to the citizens of the Nordic region. The world around us sometimes changes faster or in other directions than we fully appreciate. Developments in Russia have also been reflected in Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Council of Ministers offices in North-West Russia have been closed as a result of Russian authorities registering them as foreign agents. As a result, the Nordic Council of Ministers has strengthened cooperation with the Baltic countries in the last year. A working group of participants from the Nordic countries shall draw up a plan for the possible continuation of projects in Russia. Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017. Here it will be important to look at how we can meet the economic, climate and demographic changes we face in the Nordic countries. We have received the following key words for the upcoming Norwegian Presidency: conversion and competitiveness and adaptation to the low-emission society. The Nordic countries in transition, the Nordic countries in Europe and the Nordic countries in the world are headlines. Migration challenges and integration will hardly be reduced in the future. These are areas that have not been a formal part of the Nordic Council of Ministers’ cooperation, but it may be worth considering whether and how this can be done, not least because – as I see it – it will affect refugee flows both between the Nordic countries and between the Nordic countries and other regions if there are major differences in migration and integration work in regions in Europe or between regions – so-called push-pull factors. Last week we discussed border barriers in this room, after an interpellation by the representative Storberget. I am pleased that the government prioritises the work of removing frontier barriers highly. Removing frontier barriers creates jobs, strengthens competitiveness and contributes to growth. Nevertheless, control measures that our governments have had to introduce recently could affect free movement in the Nordic region. The main achievements for the Nordic population are through cooperation in different sectors, through the coordination of legislation and the reduction of border barriers. Parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council plays an important role as a provider of premises and is driving this work. There is a broad political consensus that the work of the Nordic Council should be as firmly anchored as possible in the Stortinget and its professional committees. The 66th session of the Nordic Council held in Stockholm with the Nordic Prime Ministers. At the top of the agenda were common challenges and future Nordic cooperation. It was discussed how the Nordic model, with a welfare state combined with high employment and economic growth, could develop further, and how best to do so. Foreign policy has also increased on the agenda of the Nordic Council. Nordic cooperation on support for military capacity building and security sector reform has also been significantly strengthened. During the extraction in Copenhagen in March, a debate was held on the prevention of extremism and radicalisation. I believe it is important that the Nordic Council and Parliamentary Cooperation remain a meeting place for the exchange of experience, ideas and policy-making. I therefore welcome the debate in this Chamber today. We now have a minister responsible for Nordic matters, who is also the European Minister, who I believe will benefit both our common commitment and the debate in this Chamber on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1339	On 12 January this year, Knut Storberget's representative had an interpellation in the United Kingdom about the work of removing border barriers between the Nordic countries. I agree with Storberget when he emphasises that if the Nordic countries are to be in the forefront of establishing committed cooperation between states and the reduction of barriers to increased interaction, they must continue to build up border barriers. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers are therefore among the main areas of Nordic cooperation. Much of the cooperation in the Nordic region is about – when it comes to it – removing frontier barriers through cooperation and harmonisation. In recent decades, this work has also become an important part of the EU/EEA work. This is related. What is happening in the EU's internal market will also affect border barriers in the Nordic region, and the implementation of EU directives in the Nordic region needs to be looked at whether they contribute to the creation of new border barriers or, in other words, to the elimination of border barriers. In any case, border barriers also need to be looked at increasingly in a European context. Border barriers work in the Nordic region makes Nordic cooperation relevant to most people in everyday life. When I was elected president of the Nordic Council in the autumn of 2012, I was immediately contacted by people who struggled with border barriers between Norway and Sweden – or Norway and Denmark. It was the farmer in the border areas against Sweden who had to pay a fee if he or she lent the tractor away to the neighbor a few meters above the border – or vice versa. And the same thing if the Swedish farmer borrowed a tool for him or her. There were social security problems for the elderly lady who had lived in Denmark for all years and returned to Norway. Not to mention the tax case of the Norwegian pensioners in Sweden. The Nordic Council of Ministers has now set up a Border Barrier Council, where Svein Ludvigsen is also a Norwegian representative. After the first year of this Council, there is reason to look with optimism at the possibilities that the Border Obstacle Council actually has and the possibilities for results, because the Council is focused, has flashed out some areas and things then also to resolve those issues. The Nordic Council has set up a Border Barriers Group to follow the Border Barriers Council of the Nordic Council of Ministers. I have said this before and repeat it: the most dynamic cooperation that has been in the Nordic context or between the Nordic countries for perhaps the last ten years is cooperation on defence, security and foreign policy. This is something that is relatively new in the sense that during the cold war it was not possible in the Nordic Council to talk about either defence policy, security policy cooperation or foreign policy. During the Norwegian Presidency in 2013, the Nordic Council also received a parliamentary foundation for the strong increase in defence cooperation – an annual round table in which the Nordic Council Bureau meets the Nordic Defence Ministers to make representations. Defence cooperation continues to have a high potential. These are in many ways the Nordic answers to NATO's Smart Defence, among others. cooperation on capacities. A country does not have to have all the equipment — one country may have one type of equipment and another country has something else. Let me add that this potential really also concerns Nordic cooperation on social security, based on the so-called Haga Declaration, which the responsible state councils for social security and civil protection have signed at Haga Castle in Stockholm. In the last year, we have had an endless debate on the participation of the parties in the Nordic Council – or the observer status of the Nordic Council. The consultation currently has observer status in the plenary session. On the social democratic side, we wanted to expand this structure. The reason for this was that together they applied for membership of the Nordic Council, which they cannot obtain under the Helsinki Agreement. There is an agreement between countries. But we thought that we could strengthen the observer status of the group, and we could for example. let the compounds have the same status as they do in the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, known as ‘Permanent Participants’. But here's a lot of emotion going on, big disagreements and a lot of contradictions. For example, Sweden has not ratified ILO Convention No. 169 on the rights of indigenous peoples. However, good work has been done in which all countries have contributed and contributed. A group was set up to see whether this conflict has been resolved at the Nordic Council for actually one year, and before the Bureau meeting at the end of January this year, the status is that there is an attitude from this subgroup which recommends that the meetings be given observer status with the right to speak in sample meetings when the samples deal with matters relating to the group itself. There's been a lot of progress back and forth here, but at least we're hoping for some kind of solution. What will otherwise be remembered by the Nordic Council in 2014-2015 is probably the reform process that took place. The administration of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen and a selected reform group have done a great job of making the Nordic Council – the Nordic Parliamentary Assembly – more efficient and less cumbersome, and perhaps better cooperation with the Council of Ministers. I guess we didn't get as far as we wanted, but I want to emphasize here first of all that the budgetary process has become much better, more transparent and more transparent. This might have been pointless if we had not had at the same time something that went parallel in the Nordic Council of Ministers, where Secretary-General Dagfinn Højbräten took the initiative to carry out a broad review of the way the Council of Ministers works, among other things. in an attempt to reduce the duration of treatment and remove the bureaucratic intermediary when the Nordic Council has taken decisions or made resolutions and recommendations and until the Council of Ministers is able to deal with the matter. This has been a major problem, and we now feel that with the processes that have taken place both in the Nordic Council and in the Council of Ministers, this process will be smoother and more flexible, and hopefully you will be able to emphasize even better what we constantly stress, namely that it is the politicians who are to direct the Nordic Council, it is not the bureaucrats. The world is looking towards the North. Europe looks towards the North, looks at the Nordic welfare states, the Nordic way of organizing society. The Nordic model has stood up to the crime scene that the financial crisis was experiencing, and is also a rock with the challenges that we see in Europe today. This is particularly true of the rapidly increasing unemployment rate in the south. In Spain, 40 pst is now. of all young people without work. It's looking at the Norwegian and Nordic way of organizing society, like, for example. is about universal welfare rights, about equality, about tripartite cooperation in the labour market, is increasingly being done. I said that Nordic cooperation is more dynamic than for a long time, and parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council is a crucial factor in the development of Nordic political work. Parliamentarians are important drivers of decisions in individual Councils of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1362	Nordic cooperation is positive and natural. However, the main challenge is that all Nordic countries have chosen different approaches to international cooperation since World War II. Therefore, it is a challenge to find relevant areas where it is natural to cooperate. The rapporteur has now mentioned some of these, not least recent developments in immigration and integration, which is a common challenge for all Nordic countries. But there are, of course, a number of other areas where it is natural to cooperate. You also have to be aware that when you prioritize something, you give something down at the same time. You can't prioritize everything, it's also something you have to be aware of. I just want to mention a few areas where I am skeptical – like the representative Tetzschner, whom I know is quoted here – and that concerns international cooperation, or the discussions that are taking place on international policy. I find that a little unnatural that should be done in the Nordic region. This applies, inter alia, to: the discussion relating to the recognition, or possible recognition, of Palestine as its own country. I can't see that the North should be a natural place where this is going on. There are very many other places — and not least in this room — in Norway’s approach to it. Another area that I know some people are burning for here is Nordic defence cooperation. It is a little in contrast to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the debate that took place on 5 February last year on the annual report from the Danish delegation to the Nordic Council. Then the Foreign Minister said that what is important to achieve is closer cooperation between NATO and Sweden and Finland. I fully agree with that. I think that is a wise approach to defence cooperation. If you are to cooperate in defence, you are to do it either on the material side or you are to do it through the exchange of exercises, training, etc. There is so much going on in defence cooperation that is limited or information about, in the case of movements, in the case of exercises, in the case of training and in the case of necessary information for practice or training is not available. It is also not natural to engage in joint acquisitions of advanced materials and equipment, as it again requires access to sensitive information. Although it is our neighbouring country, we have different alliances built up, and then it is more natural that those of the Nordic countries that are not members of Europe's defence alliances that really matter, namely NATO, link a stronger relationship with NATO than that we, as NATO members, link a stronger relationship with Sweden and Finland and others. I hope you will take the advice from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not follow what the rapporteur, Mr Stoltenberg, may have recommended in his communication to the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1375	Nordic cooperation is important for Norway, has been so for many years and will be important in the future. We have many common values, a common set of rules and a common history to a great extent that allows us to talk easily and understand each other, even though the language may be a little different, but not worse than that we can speak well. The work on building border barriers between the Nordic countries has been an important part of cooperation long before Schengen was envisaged. In recent times, the debate on the Schengen Agreement has increased. The Central Party has always been sceptical about Schengen. I think there are better alternatives. The Schengen Agreement is now under strong pressure. Representatives who previously believed that a discussion on the benefits and disadvantages of the Schengen Agreement was not up to date are now opening up that the Schengen Agreement may not be an ideal solution. A number of countries, including Norway, have introduced different forms of border control in the last year. A short time ago, the Dutch Minister for Migration, Klaas Dijkhoff, stated that a solution with a mini-schengen, i.e. regional cooperation ensuring passport-free travel between a smaller selection of countries, could be implemented as a last solution if today's Schengen Agreement were to collapse. We cannot expect all EU leaders to facilitate a greater degree of less regional border cooperation. The President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, has stated that a single currency does not make sense if the Schengen Agreement fails. After Juncker’s view, the Schengen Agreement is one of the pillars of the construction of Europe. In anticipation of saving the Schengen Agreement, the EU Commission has now proposed the establishment of a coastal and border force capable of taking control of its external borders in spite of its own wishes in the countries. Coastal and border forces will break fundamentally with national sovereignty. Norway had been part of a Nordic passport union for almost 50 years before we joined the Schengen Agreement. The Central Party has pointed out that a revitalised Nordic passport union could be a better solution for Norway than today's Schengen Agreement. In the Nordic region, we have a more natural common labour market, with wage and working conditions at a relatively temperate level. It is also an advantage that all Nordic countries are able to control their external borders. When the Storting today discusses Nordic cooperation, we want to challenge more parties to see more about this possibility. A Nordic border cooperation, as an alternative to today's Schengen Agreement, is worth looking at more parties. We also have well-developed Nordic cooperation in many other areas. It is gratifying that the Nordic Council has been revitalised after a while to suggest that the discussions were rather tame. That's good, precisely because, as I said introductoryly, we have many common challenges, many common values, common culture, a fairly similar language, and we want to keep that community in a new era too. It is interesting to follow up on what is happening in the Nordic Council, and from the Central Party's side we support active Nordic cooperation in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1392	Today, when I am going to explain the Nordic cooperation of the year that went on, I cannot fail to mention the border control measures introduced in the Nordic region to stop people without valid travel documents. The measures are exceptional, necessary and temporary. However, these measures also impose certain restrictions on the free movement that we have enjoyed in the Nordic region for many decades. Many therefore express concern about what today’s development can mean in the long term. Such concern is understandable. Free movement and economic integration have served our Nordic societies very well. And the consideration of economic conversion needs and our Nordic competitiveness suggests that in the future we will need more free movement and economic cooperation in the Nordic region, not less. There is now an important dialogue between the Nordic countries on the challenges associated with the situation in the field of asylum and migration. At present, the Nordic Council of Ministers does not include migration and integration issues. However, much information exchange and coordination may take place informally. The Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers is now also planning a Ministerial Conference on Integration during the first half of 2016. It is an initiative supported by the government. In the last year, the Nordic Council of Ministers has undergone a comprehensive modernisation process with a view to streamlining and improving government cooperation. However, we must have a continuous focus on the relevance of cooperation. I believe that further reform of the Council of Ministers can be done within the framework of the Helsinki Agreement. The action space is large with today’s structures — and funds can be re-prioritized. As part of the follow-up to the strategy for cooperation with the EU, the government has worked over time to strengthen Nordic European political cooperation ‘The North of Europe’. As a minister responsible for both EU/EEA matters and Nordic cooperation, I will in future work for even more synergy between Nordic cooperation and European policy. The government wants more coordinated Nordic implementation of EU/EEA legislation. This will help facilitate free movement in the Nordic region. At the same time, it will prevent frontier barriers and contribute to a level playing field and improve Nordic competitiveness. We also want more use of common Nordic input to European policy development at an early stage. Through the active use of Nordic examples, we can influence European policy development in key areas where we have common Nordic interests. It will also be an objective to make visible that the EEA funds for the period 2014-2021 support for common Nordic priorities in the Baltic, Baltic and Central and Eastern European regions. Finland emphasises more Nordic synergy in the EU in its 2016 Presidency. We will support this about and further develop into our own Presidency period in 2017. The relevance of the Council of Ministers can be illustrated by new policy initiatives. Under the Danish Presidency in 2015, The Council of Ministers strengthened the work of a balanced and independent Russian-speaking media landscape in the Baltic countries. The Baltic representation offices have been strengthened in their budgets following the closure of offices in North-West Russia as a result of the registration as foreign agents. In addition, 2016 will be a year with good opportunities to implement targeted actions to profile and position the Nordic region in the world. As in previous years, cross-border work is a high priority. The 2015 report of the Border Barriers Council shows that the seven priority issues for Norway are either in process or have been resolved. The Border Obstacle Council has its first meeting in Helsingor in these days to set its priorities for 2016. An important target for 2017 will be to contribute to increased interaction between Nordic and European policies. The Nordic countries need Europe, and Europe needs the Nordic countries. In addition, we will take advantage of Nordic cooperation in economic transformation. Our integrated Nordic societies and economies constitute a particularly relevant platform for the transition we are about to undergo in the years to come, towards green competitiveness and low-carbon societies. If Nordic cooperation is to take out its full potential, it is more important than ever that we do not stagger in form, but abilities to take the necessary steps to ensure continued relevance and the highest possible benefit of our Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1430	The Council of State is the EEA State Council and is responsible for the Nordic Council, which is an intriguing combination. That is why I want to address one of the last things she said, namely that she wants to work for more synergy between Nordic cooperation and work towards the EU. There is an increasing fact today that work on removing frontier barriers needs to be seen in an EU context, and I want to ask two questions. One is: how will the Council of State, when we are working on frontier barriers, work to ensure that the implementation of EU directives in the different Nordic countries does not lead to new frontier barriers – because implementation can take place in different ways in the Nordic countries? And: How will she involve the Nordic Council and also the Parliamentary Assembly in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1437	The question raised by the representative of Marit Nybakk is most relevant. There is no doubt that it is a challenge that different paces in the implementation of EU directives can help to build new border barriers at a time when it is incredibly important to actually build them up. Early intervention is important, i.e. that we are early in life, so that we are aware when these directives come, but it is also important that there is a good dialogue between the Nordic countries to make sure that we implement them in the most equal way possible. Then ask the representative how we can also involve the Nordic Council in this work. I must be allowed to come back to that, but I see that it is very important that we also involve the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council – and that there is a good dialogue between them – in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1447	As I said in my speech, the debate on the Schengen Agreement has increased, and also leading people representing the EU have asked questions about future Schengen. It's interesting in the context we're discussing today, also to discuss whether there can be a Nordic option. Norway has been part of a Nordic passport union for many, many years, it has worked very well, although – as the representative Nybakk said in a previous case – of course our challenges on the road also have to do with border cooperation. How do the Councils of State view the possibility that Nordic border cooperation can act as an alternative to Schengen?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1454	I think it is important now that we concentrate on trying to find a solution to the Schengen challenge that we actually have today. The European Commission has presented a border control package, which is to be assessed, Norway is a member of Schengen, we are sitting at the table, we are involved in discussing how we can find good solutions here. Should Schengen fall, it is clear that there will be major questions and major challenges related to bringing about the competitive Europe we need, the important and – I said – the most unhindered access to the market that is so important to Norwegian industry and industry. On the other hand, it is clear that it is a setback and a step backwards for Nordic cooperation that we have ended up in the situation we are today, where we have control of the border between the Nordic countries as well. But I hope it's a temporaryity, and that there's a situation that we're going to get out of if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1461	It is also the case that the European Commission has proposed the creation of a coastal and border force which can take control of the Schengen external border and which can also make it independent of whether or not each country wants such a force in place. How does the Council of State view this, and is there a theme being discussed between the Nordic countries in order to have a common attitude to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1466	The Prime Minister responded spontaneously to the question now raised by the representative of Navarsete to the undersigned. Norway, like other EU countries, has said that exactly that proposal is problematic, but on the other hand, it is important to look at what other alternatives we then have, in order to try to repatriate Schengen and gain control of the external border into Europe. So we have undoubtedly challenges ahead of us in this area, but we can't give up. The idea of frontier-free Europe and that we can achieve good cooperation and make the best possible provision for business development, new competitiveness, etc., have a high priority, and that is what must be the aim of the work that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1471	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1474	This is a brilliant day, with many good debates. I need to be clear with the thank you, so I will also start this article by thanking you. This time, I want to thank the representative Nybakk for the commitment and work she has done in the Nordic Council to find a solution to the question of how to allow partners to help shape their own future in a common Nordic region. It has been an important contribution to working towards a solution. If not at express speed, Nybakk has at least contributed to the fact that there has been movement on the issue and that you are moving in the right direction. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good feedback and support for the work of the Arctic delegation, and for expressing its support and support, it is positive to have broad contact with society and to try to raise debates outside this Chamber. It is a feedback both to me as the head of the delegation and to all the members of the delegation. All those who have chosen to make choices there and do a job are busy with questions related to the North and the Arctic. In 2016, the cooperation in the Arctic Council is 20 years. There is reason to celebrate, because during this time cooperation between the Arctic countries has developed positively, and tasks have grown. From the outset, groundbreaking cooperation has been provided in the field of the environment. During these years, cooperation has included new policy areas, such as shipping, search and rescue, oil protection, and not least the human dimension, in line with the changing challenges and opportunities in the region. Member States have also decided to keep Arctic cooperation as free as possible from disagreements that countries might have elsewhere, such as the conflict in Ukraine. That's why there's good reason to celebrate Arctic advice as a success, with 20 years behind it. Arctic Councils have made a strong contribution to the region’s current character of peace, stability and extensive cooperation, in line with the visions and objectives of the countries involved. Jubilee is of course a reason to celebrate what you have achieved. It's interesting, though, to use the opportunity to look ahead -- let's say the next 20 years. What challenges do we have in mind that we will then face in Arctic cooperation as climate change approaches? As we all know, they come faster in the north. We know that compared to the global average, the temperature increase is estimated to be approximately. twice as high in the Arctic. How are we gonna meet that? How are we going to further develop Arctic Councils as an organisation to meet the challenges and be ahead of development? It is at least a theme that will be on the agenda of the Arctic parliamentary cooperation in 2016. One of the strengths of the Arctic Council is the structure and flexibility shown by the organisation. The involvement of indigenous peoples of the region and close cooperation with the academia will be the basis for cooperation in the future. I think one of the opportunities for the next 20 years is to find thematic areas where you can involve the observers in the cooperation more strongly, for example. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Today, the eight Member States and major observers such as China, India and the EU, with an ever-increasing number of new observers, constitute a very interesting and relevant group, providing opportunities for new initiatives. For example, the Member States and the twelve observer countries, including the EU, are represented. for approx. 80 pst. of the total emissions in the world today. It provides opportunities for Arctic Councils to also take initiatives related to climate challenges. Another aspect is cooperation on the development of infrastructure. Unless sea ice is present, the activity in the Arctic will increase. Although the low oil price and low prices of other raw materials, such as minerals, make parts of the expected activity fail or come later than you saw a few years ago, the overall picture from shipping, fishing and tourism is still that the maritime activity will increase a lot in the time to come. It's literally a new sea opening up. Then we too from the nation of Norway must know our visitation time and position ourselves as a maritime nation, as we have always been, and as we will also be in the future. There we have a unique opportunity attached to Svalbard, which, with its strategic position, lies in the middle of the butter island. Then we need to strengthen Svalbard, as described in the current national transport plan. That is also why the Workers' Party proposed to support port development based on the current economic situation, with the need and possibility for heavy infrastructure investments and with the possibility of strengthening the Svalbard community and starting to develop one of the feet on Svalbard after the coal disappears. One of the latest innovations in the Arctic family is the Arctic Coast Guard Forum, where Coast Guard Heads meet every six months to discuss cooperation and development in the region. Let me remind you that the Arctic Council's ministerial meeting takes place every two years, and that in Arctic parliamentary cooperation we have long thought that developments in the Arctic require annual ministerial meetings. The established Coast Guard Forum will be an important element in improved security, as it is to a large extent the Coast Guard around us to trust. It also underlines and proves that this is a peaceful and stable region, where the various actors are able to cooperate where we have common interests, even though we have quite strong disagreements elsewhere in the world. It is a strong quality of Arctic advice. Of course, it is also challenging to be able to condemn Russia's actions in Ukraine while working together on common interests in the north. One consequence of increased maritime activity is that we must work together to improve infrastructure in the context of ports and security. Satellite coverage is also important for rapid and correct communication about icy conditions, weather forecasts, etc. Today there is a challenge with satellite coverage far north, in practice from around 70 degrees north and further north. 80 pst. of the maritime activity in the Circumpolar region takes place in what we can describe as the Norwegian Centre. Therefore, as a nation, Norway has a strategic interest in putting broadband data communication in place in the area. It can be done with satellites. This initiative should be followed up by the government, and they should create a mechanism in which we are open to funding and organisation with other nations – and for that matter private actors. However, Norway as a maritime nation and as an Arctic nation and polarisation should take precedence. I also believe that the regional dimension of Arctic cooperation should be strengthened. Already today, we have more regional cooperation in the Arctic, and for us, it is the closest thing to think about Barents' cooperation, even though there are several border regional cooperations in different parts of the Arctic. I believe that the experience of these collaborations should be channelled better into Arctic cooperation. That's also how we can help to strengthen the popular dimension and with the input from people who actually live there. At a time when many large countries are involved as observers, it is important to remember the role of observers in Arctic Councils representing the people living in the region, such as the World Reef Federation and the University of the Arctic and others. Because even though the sea – for Norway both marine and maritime, from space, on the surface, in the water column, at the bottom and to the extent below the bottom – is one of the most important possibilities, it is, after all, all the people living in the north, the four million people living in Arctic strips, 10 pst. of Norway’s population, which is the most important. Then we have to facilitate and strengthen the possibility of living in the north of the people living in the north, and of the resources and opportunities that lie in the north. It is the task of Norwegian politicians and other actors operating in the northern regions, and it must also be the task of the Arctic Council and the observers who choose to apply for it. In conclusion, I believe Norway has been an Arctic power for the last 20 years – not because we have huge military resources, not because we are the largest economy in the northern regions or for that matter on the globe, and not because we have most people, but because it has been a political will and ability to set the agenda, because we have had some visions and an idea of where we were going. With the pressure and increasing interest of other actors, it is more demanding to claim in this competition – it is obvious. But it might seem that we are losing just what was our greatest strength: we were the ones who set the agenda, we were the ones who raised the big ideas. I think that will be one of the challenges that political Norway needs to address in the future and say something about – that this will Norway, now it is the most important issue in the north, and that is what we are going to put on the agenda as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1504	Nordic cooperation is surrounded by great political goodwill – you can hear that in the debate here. We see that it is largely cross-political, and it is joyous – just as it has been a pleasure for the undersigned to be the Head of Delegation for the two years that we have behind us. Now the stick goes on to my colleague Sonja Mandt. However, it is natural to highlight some issues that have also been addressed in the debate. Nordic cooperation has been given a further dimension by recently raising common Nordic concerns about security and defence policy. Events outside the North, such as the annexation of the Crimea Peninsula, the Deputy War in Ukraine and a general increase in pressure against the former Soviet states of influence and the Baltic States, have made these issues more relevant. The more organised rounds of meetings on Nordic defence cooperation are promising, but they will only be able to supplement — never replace — the alliances Norway and Denmark are part of through the NATO community. It is with great interest that we can follow the new NATO debate that has emerged in Sweden and Finland, but it is national decisions in these countries that in the coming years will determine whether a coordinated Nordic country can be realised within the same defence policy. The North would have become a safer place if this were possible. But, as you understand, neither the Nordic nor the Nordic Councils can operate these processes. It's up to the individual country. With regard to relations with the European Union too, it is a disadvantage that the Nordic countries have chosen different forms of cooperation – from full membership, with and without the euro, to the EEA Agreement. Nevertheless, the large number of directives implemented under the EU agreements has a corollary effect on the level of regulation by the Nordic countries. So it is the EU that in many ways promotes regulatory harmonisation in the Nordic region, even though we see that there are often different solutions at the technical level, which require early entry not to build new border barriers. The last point I want to highlight within speaking time is that the pressure on migration and the refugee crisis have also challenged Nordic cooperation. All Nordic countries are involved in the Schengen work on an external EU border, and they have acceded to the Dublin Agreement, with the principle that it is the first Schengen country of arrival to decide on an application for entry. But there have also been different national policies in the Nordic countries, which in total have put at risk the more than 60 years of passport freedom and the principle of free movement between the citizens of the Nordic countries. One country, Denmark, has a border across land to the continent, but there is no external Schengen border. On the other hand, Norway and Finland are to enforce an external Schengen border across countries, while Sweden has borders that do not have these characteristics. In return, they have led a policy of immigration that has had a significant pull to the Nordic region. In sum, we have seen that this has led us to see, during a transitional period, that more ordinary regulated borders are being introduced, with passport and entry controls, which have simply put the Nordic movement back many years. The measures have been necessary, but it is hoped that they will pass. In contrast to Mr Navarsete's representative, I would like to stress that the solution lies in the enforcement of the Schengen system and the Dublin Agreement on conditions and that the Nordic countries also develop an entry policy which they do not have too many differences between them. Again, we see an example of how far we are going in Nordic cooperation depending on factors other than what the Nordic countries themselves control, but that there are also solutions that can promote cooperation if they are to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1523	Although I am new to the Nordic parliamentary context, I am old enough to have seen and, not least, to see how important the Nordic policy is to me and your everyday life. It has not come about by itself, but through wise political decisions, where a mutual desire to contribute to Nordic cooperation gives real content to belong to a brother, perhaps symbolized most strongly by the fact that border crossings have been like an open door. But now we are challenged by that someone wants, and is about to close this door again. We know the reason, but it is a defeat that the passport may have to be introduced when we visit our friends in the Nordic region. Finnish immigration and visiting relatives in Finland have at least been very important to me for my relationship with the Nordic region. It may also have made its Nordic cooperation strong in the north. We've got a lot of work to do, and one example can be Barents' cooperation, which shows how to work at both the regional level between countries in the North and towards our neighbor in the East. I am also very pleased that the governments of the Nordic countries want to further promote regional cooperation. It is positive that young people's prospects for their own future in the north are highlighted. Therefore, we must not allow frontier barriers to inhibit such an opportunity. Good Nordic cooperation also brings the Sami population closer together. Both the representative Eirik Sivertsen and the representative Marit Nybakk discussed this in their speeches earlier today: how important it is in Nordic context to establish a good and close cooperation with the Sami Parliamentary Council. We see that such cooperation works well within Arctic cooperation. There, the Council is one of six indigenous organisations that are involved as permanent participants. Now I do not know the status in this area, but I understand that the Nordic Council is working to find a solution to the development of cooperation. But we can be inspired by the way the Arctic Council and the Arctic parliamentary cooperation release indigenous organisations. A good start – which many people have had – in the Nordic context can be to give the Sami people a right and an opportunity to meet and speak in the Nordic Council, and perhaps not only in plenary, but also in the bodies dealing with matters that the Sami representatives consider relevant. When we are able to give China, Japan and Singapore observer status in Arctic Council, we must at least give the Nordic's only indigenous peoples a place in the democratic bodies that are in the North. In order to succeed in our common desire to create a positive dialogue in the development of the North, we cannot help but have a close and good dialogue in maintaining and developing the Sami culture. We see that the southern Sami language is classified as seriously threatened, and there should be a common Nordic responsibility to care for and develop the Sami languages, and perhaps in particular the southern Sami language. Another important theme is how to manage our common natural resources, both to land and to water. The solutions are not self-inflicted. Dialogue between stakeholders is a key element here, including in the Nordic perspective. Finally, the annual report points to many areas of cooperation that work very well, as the rapporteur also pointed out in his statement. We live at a time when it may be more important than ever that the countries of the Nordic countries stand together. This may be particularly important in terms of the security and foreign policy challenges, which we see getting closer and closer to each day. NORDEFCO has been mentioned, but I would also like to endorse both the representatives Tetzschner and Tybring-Gjedde – our relation to NATO is the pillar of our defence work. NORDEFCO will then be a supplement. The Norwegian Presidency has chosen the Nordic chord in transition in Europe and in the world. I think it's very exciting, and I also think that with that perspective, we're going to raise Nordic cooperation to an overall level -- that one isn't just concerned with the maybe small things, but maybe sees things in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1546	The last few months have shown that the world is coming faster to the North than ever before. The challenges of our time cannot be solved by individual countries. They are cross-border by nature. The migration flow to Europe illustrates this with all clarity. Just because the consequences of foreign policy developments mean so much to us, we need strong Nordic foreign and security cooperation. Cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy is developing positively. The foundation is a strong community of values and interests. Developments in Russia, the Baltic Sea region, the Middle East and new global security challenges have brought new dimensions together. I am in close contact with my Nordic colleagues almost on a weekly basis to discuss these challenges, to coordinate and not least to attract exchange of observations in a world where there is a lot of unrest. Nordic cooperation responds to a world of rapid and often unpredictable change. We have intensified cooperation in and about the neighbourhoods, in particular with the Baltic countries. Cooperation between NATO, Sweden and Finland is closer than ever. The EU and EEA ministers have already pointed out that Nordic cooperation on EU issues is a priority. The Nordic Council is an important meeting place to discuss the issues on the EU’s foreign policy agenda. The Nordic countries also cooperate closely on Arctic issues. In a few days I'm going to Tromsø to keep the opening post on the Arctic Frontiers. A month later, the Church Conference, which is very important this year, is not least after what we have experienced from the turmoil and drama of Storskog. It is important that Norwegian authorities are clear in their presence. Colleagues from other Nordic countries also come to Arctic Frontiers in Tromsø. Their participation is important to maintain Arctic Frontiers as the main international conference on North Sea issues. We see a strong interest in Arctic Frontiers. Admiral Papp, who is now under Secretary of State Kerry leading the American work, the Finnish Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Slovak Minister of Foreign Affairs will be present. We've done an incredible amount with Norway as a hub in arctic cooperation. During the opening of the Arctic Frontiers, the Minister for Climate and Environment will also lay the foundation for the Promo. It is also the case that we have now established Arctic Economic Council in Tromsø in addition to the Arctic Secretariat. Norway plays a significant role in the formulation of Arctic policies. I do not understand that it should be in anyone’s interest — it might have to be a short-term partisan policy — to discuss Norway’s importance in the Arctic context. Norway is of great importance, we have had great significance, and we are showing the way in Arctic cooperation. Recently, Minister of Foreign Affairs John Kerry contacted me to ask for Norway to coordinate the marine environment and the sea in a European context in the run-up to the Great Oceans Conference in the United States in September. This doesn't much remind you of a backward position. North Norway is growing faster economically than the rest of the country. We see an optimism that we should all rejoice over at a time when there are tough shifts also in Norway. With regard to the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation, it also plays an important role in the UN in both initiatives, reform processes and candidatures. New global security threats require the use of a broad range of political, ideological, military and economic instruments. We must follow up with the necessary humanitarian efforts and long-term strategies. I have to admit that to me Nordic cooperation means a lot a day, not least in a demanding world where we have a community of interests and a community of values that is important to Norway, but I know that it is also for the other Nordic countries, not least confirmed by the Icelandic Foreign Minister's visit last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1575	I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent so much time working together in defence policy between the Nordic countries – the NORDEFCO – or perhaps more than NORDEFCO also working together on foreign policy, on security policy, cooperation and assessments on the security policy situation, cooperation on what is happening in our neighbourhoods, etc. There has been a lack of skepticism in the debate about this, so at least it's an emphasis on the fact that our NATO membership is the anchoring of security policy. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that Nordic defence cooperation is based on the security policy orientations, ties and alliances of each country, i.e. the state of security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1581	As I also stressed in my article, cooperation between NATO and Sweden and Finland is closer than ever. This is important. We in Norway have our security anchor party in NATO. It'll stay there. We are in an asymmetric situation not least in the north, which requires a strong, effective and predictable NATO. But the cooperation that we have also Nordic, not only on the basis of NATO, on foreign and security policy issues with the non-NATO members Finland and Sweden, I think is complementary to what we can also do through NATO with these two countries, and I know that this is appreciated by these two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1586	I thank you for that answer. Does this mean that the Foreign Minister, in cooperation with the Minister for Defence, will further develop what he now calls complementary cooperation, NATO membership and work in NATO? Interestingly, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says is that Sweden and Finland are increasingly cooperating with NATO countries, and that the two countries can, through Nordic defence cooperation, actually be drawn closer to our alliance, i.e. to NATO and to NATO's work and operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1591	Not at least the last one. I believe some of the modus operandi behind Sweden and Finland's strong interest in strengthening this cooperation – which we repeat – is based on the NATO relationship of Denmark, Iceland and Norway. They have chosen an alliance policy different from ours, but through the cooperation we have, I believe that both the three associated with NATO and Sweden and Finland have something to gain from this. So this is a win-win-cooperation, and, as I said, cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy is in a positive development. There is broad agreement on this, and we are not up in the same issues as we did during the Cold War. On the contrary, it is also in our interest to draw Sweden and Finland closer to the cooperation traditionally enjoyed by the three Nordic NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1596	Let me start by saying that I think Norway is an important player in the polar regions. I have said that repeatedly today. So where the Foreign Minister has it from that someone is trying to talk down Norway as an important actor, I don't understand. My point was that I feel that Norway has had less ability to set the political agenda internationally than before. Then I also understand that when John Kerry chooses to say that the sea areas are large, it is demanding for a small nation like Norway to claim. But I want more initiatives from the government. I took up two things in my post: Satellite coverage – could we have taken an initiative in that, could we have sat in the driver's seat for it, so we put in place a strategically important resource? Something else, which I think is the right time to come with now, is to strengthen the regional and local involvement in the design of the policies of those who live in the northern regions, of those who live in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1605	At least it is very good that we were now confirmed that there is no lack of Norwegian leadership in terms of Arctic and Arctic cooperation. I have – I must admit – from the day after I took over this job, experienced that there were some people who had a bit of pre-programming, that ‘it was not as good as when we were in charge’. I hope we can put it behind us and be constructive and look at what we've got: we've got Arctic advice in Tromsø. We're going to open the Proximity gradually, the foundation building. It is incredibly important for Norway that we have received the Arctic Economic Secretariat. There's growth in North Norway, even in difficult times. We have managed well in a new security policy landscape with a different Russia. We have taken care of Norway's interests. We've put sea on the agenda. Norway played a significant role in the climate negotiations in Paris, where it highlighted how we have put climate change on the Arctic agenda. What more can you ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1612	Yes, you can ask: Will the Foreign Minister take the initiative for Arctic Council to take a lead in meeting the climate challenges? I'm incredibly happy that we got a climate agreement in Paris. The problem — as the foreign minister also knows — is that it only says something about what the goal is, and what the ambition is. The ambition is described by some as unrealistic, but it's a bold ambition. The challenge lies in how we get it. Arctic countries are hit hard in the north, but they also have, if we count on the observers, as I said in my post, large sources of emissions. We can ask that the people who live in the north get a greater degree of participation and ability to influence their future in the north. I'm not saying it's been wrong, and there have been right and important decisions that have been made in Washington, in Moscow, in Oslo, and in the Arctic Council. It has brought the northern regions far ahead. But we can take initiatives to strengthen direct involvement now, after 20 years, perhaps with more popular involvement. And we can take the initiative to strengthen the infrastructure in the north, because that has to be built on if we're to realize the opportunities. There's nothing else I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1619	First of all, what the representative has taken of initiatives in parliamentary cooperation is incredibly important. It is highly valued, and there are several who have given recognition to it. I think we have a good cooperation. What made me respond was that we no longer put matters on the agenda. I actually felt that it was not particularly striking. Sometimes we can talk about each other too, because I think we have pretty good results in this area. But I'm taking the challenge of putting the climate even more on the agenda of the Arctic Council, and I know the Americans really want that. We get an opportunity to discuss this with Admiral Papp when he's in Tromsø, so I'll take that challenge. I think marine acidification is something we should follow up, and clarify what is the impact of climate change in the Arctic. So I think we're going to get a lot in this area too in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1628	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1631	In the Nordic Council of Ministers, transport and transport across borders are a theme that involves a lot of people. That's actually the theme that it's been asking most questions about. In the Helsinki Agreement, §§ 26-29 deals with transport cooperation. It's because one thought that in the Nordic work was and is – I say transport is an important part of the work. Before, it was actually an own Council of Ministers for Transport. Now we've had a period without, and there's good reason to see if we're going to get it back, both because of the importance of cross-border transport and the basis for free movement of people, goods and services. In the message, transport cooperation is also underlined. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have had rapporteurs. It is Øyvind Halleraker from the Committee on Energy and the Environment and the signatures from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy which have our rapporteurs for transport. Now I'm moving to the new selection for growth and development in the Nordic region. We will continue to work on the transport cooperation in that selection, among other things. with the eight million-year-old city of Oslo, Gothenburg, Copenhagen, and how we can achieve a better port policy. Over the two years I have been in the Nordic Council, we have wanted to have a round table on transport with the transport ministers in the Nordic countries. It's kind of embarrassing that we still haven't gotten it. In this debate last year, I challenged the Minister of Cooperation to do so and asked her to take it further, but nothing has yet happened. The Swedish Minister of Transport has met our election twice, and in Helsinki to the week, the Finnish Minister will meet us. The Norwegian has not yet taken the time to meet us, but we can hope that at the April meeting here in Oslo he can take that time. We are going to continue working on the Round Table, and I expect a greater willingness from the government to participate in the Nordic Council's work here. The eighteen-million-town is a project that we want to continue working on. With better train connections between the three cities, we could have a common labour market that would give the Nordic people an enormous potential. It's okay that one has rejected the high-speed path between these cities, but it must be possible to do other things. When we build new double tracks for Halden and Sweden to build a new one between Stockholm and Gothenburg, it should be possible to think that we could connect these tracks. The Minister for Transport has started work on this issue, and at the Gothenburg Conference on 17 December, we presented the work of the Swedish Railway Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency on what one could do with the capacity between Oslo and Gothenburg. It is now that the report should not be delivered until March 2016, but at the moment it emerged – and remember – that today a run of 3 hours and 39 minutes can be made to Gothenburg. It's quite a long time. But in the scenarios they presented to us, the 2021 runtime could go down to 3 hours and 30 minutes, in 2031 down to 3 hours and in 2050 maybe to less than 3 hours. I think most people who were at that conference, who have worked many years with Oslo–Gothenburg, felt that this was like a blow to the face. It's far from good enough. We, who are going to continue working in the Nordic Council, are also working on transport, and I still want to challenge Minister of Cooperation Aspaker, because the Nordic parliamentarians are very interested in continuing to work on transport. In particular, we would like to get the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish ministers to discuss good forward-looking transport solutions that are effective, safe and environmentally friendly for the Nordic region and the Nordic region. I want the Minister to confirm that she will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1644	I feel that there is quite a consensus in the Chamber that Nordic cooperation is important. We who live and live in the Nordic countries live a very similar life and have close and good relationships that have evolved over many years. We are like a large Nordic family with a unique opportunity to coordinate and address the common challenges we see and have from our position on this globe. Nordic cooperation was formalised by the formation of the Nordic Council in 1952. The Council consists of parliamentarians from Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland, as well as representatives from the local parliaments in the Danish autonomous areas of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands and from the Finnish autonomous region of Åland. The Nordic Council is not an overall body which may take decisions to be taken in each Member State. The work of the Nordic Council is about putting matters on the agenda, taking initiatives, getting debates and conferences started, sharing experience and influencing, so that each country takes it further and follows up in its own parliaments. Some critical voices claim that cooperation in the Nordic Council is a lot of talk and social activity. This is something we should actually take seriously, because it is important that precious time and resources are not spent on matters and projects that will not lead to results. The work we do in the Nordic Council must be linked to the work we do in our own parliaments. I feel that there's a great awareness of this right now. At meetings with my Nordic colleagues, many people express their desire to revitalise and further develop Nordic cooperation. In the Norwegian delegation there is a strong consensus that the work of the Nordic Council should be anchored in the best possible way in Stortinget and in our own specialist committees. A major reform work has been carried out in the Nordic Council in the last year, and from 2016, the Council will appear with a new organisation. Five specialist committees have been reduced to four, with a more streamlined secretariat. It's a desire to get a better prioritisation and focus on issues that the council is going to work on. The work must be linked to what the Council of Ministers sees as common Nordic challenges and areas of action. It is important that the work of the Nordic Council is timely and seen as useful, which will focus on both batch groups and sample sizes. In the field of health and welfare, the Council of Ministers has actively followed up the Bo Könberg report with emphasis on public health and active action against antibiotic resistance. A Nordic summit on mental health was also organised in Copenhagen in 2015. In 2016, the welfare committee, for which I was recently elected the leader, will focus on three main areas. There is health cooperation in the Nordic region, there are children and young people — with special emphasis on the follow-up of minor refugees — and it is the Nordic labour market for vulnerable and weak groups. These priorities follow up and relate to the main actions of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. As referred to in the report, when the Council meets, both in the committees and in the sessions, border barriers are on the agenda. It is important to try to reduce the barriers that have arisen between Nordic countries over time. In the Nordic Council, we agree to raise the issue of border barriers to debate in our own parliaments in order to highlight the border obstacles with which it is important to have something done, so that we can achieve flexible and good cooperation across the Nordic borders. Last week we had such a debate, an inter-pelling debate on frontier barriers, here in Stortinget. When implementing laws and regulations adopted in the EU, we often implement them differently in the Nordic countries, creating new border barriers. There have been several emphasis earlier today. There should therefore be closer cooperation both in the Council of Ministers and in the departments, so that we implement EU legislation and directives in the same way in the Nordic region. The Border Barriers Council, established in Nordic cooperation, has systematicised the work on border barriers and contributed to the resolution of several border barriers. Others have been written off because it's actually not possible to do anything with them. We have recently had a new situation – given the exceptional situation of the large number of refugees arriving in the Nordic region – with the introduction of stricter border controls. This challenges us all. It is difficult to testify to the fact that border and passport controls remain in the Nordic region, where we have been able to move freely between the Nordic countries since the 1950s. I hope that through our good neighbourliness and Nordic cooperation, we can find good and flexible solutions and share experiences in migration and integration. People who need protection must be met in a good way. The refugee situation is a common challenge and is at the top of the agenda in all Nordic countries, perhaps with the exception of Iceland. It is important that we succeed in this work and in the great integration work that awaits us. The optimal thing is that we get to this without creating new barriers between us in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1663	In the annual report of the Parliamentary Arctic Cooperation Delegation, we point to a great deal of activity. Surely we can say that the 'child' has begun to grow up and become independent. The Nordic regions are our main area of foreign policy interest, and it is a great responsibility for the Arctic nation of Norway to lead with knowledge and accountability in the north. I am pleased to be able to show that this is followed up by the government through efforts both in budget and in plans further. Through the Arctic delegation, we work well with our Nordic neighbours, but we also cooperate well with powerful countries such as Russia, Canada and the United States. In the north, foreign and domestic policies are closely interwoven. With the new international situation, marked by major changes and uncertainties, maintaining the Arctic as a peaceful and stable region is an important objective in itself. The new security policy situation in Europe has once again demonstrated the importance of respect for international law and cooperation in the north as well. It is clear that the Arctic has become an arena for cooperation between Europe, North America and Asia. This is a new and interesting development, which I got a good insight into last August when I participated in Study Tour Nord's programme around Svalbard. In New Zealand, researchers from all countries working side by side are gathered. This gives us new opportunities. In December, the climate agreement came into effect in Paris. We know that the temperature in the Arctic is rising twice as fast as elsewhere in the world, and therefore it is natural enough in the Arctic that we first see the consequences of global warming. However, it is important that we provide awareness of the fact that there are people living and working in the Arctic. It is our job to ensure that this knowledge is available to all those who are going to discuss the Arctic and climate challenges in the continuation. The Arctic delegation has had a lot of activity this year by attending meetings and conferences, but also, as the leader mentioned, by organising its own seminars, the last seminar on Antarctica. Now, in February, our Arctic parliamentarians from the Nordic parliaments are on the verge of meeting. The work of the Arctic delegation has given us a good competence, and now that we have also discussed strategic political work around Antarctica, it may be an interesting idea that this area will also be an area followed by the Arctic Parliamentary Delegation. I finally want to give our delegation leader Eirik Sivertsen the honor of his efforts in the delegation and for his commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1685	We are in the section for the distribution of honors now, and I want to praise the House for a good debate with informative and interesting contributions on both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers – as the case-law rapporteur for these two Nordic matters, on cross-border obstacles, on cooperation in the various committees of the Nordic Council, on the issues of the participation of the Sametinge in the Nordic Council and on the work of the Nordic Council, both retrospectively and in the future, when Norway will be chaired in 2017. The work and importance of the Arctic Council and Arctic parliamentary cooperation have also been widely discussed in the Chamber, I believe, and the importance of these bodies and delegations and cooperation, as well as the importance of Norwegian activity in these cooperation forums, have been highlighted to us. I feel that we have two councillors in the Chamber in these cases, who are both forward-looking and have knowledge and interest in the matter. This promises good for future debates on these issues as well, and I thank you for your participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1692	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7, 8, and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1706	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1713	As rapporteur of the case, I present the position of the Business Committee to the Government's proposal for amendments to the Act on Innovation Norway. Today the state owns 51 pst. of Innovation Norway, while counties own 49 pst. The government wants to restore ownership to the state, but this is not supported by the committee. Since the other legislative changes in the bill are also based on the fact that the State acquires ownership of Innovation Norway, an overall committee proposes to send the matter back to the government. It is also proposed that the government promote a new proposition on changes to the Law on Innovation in Norway, on the basis of which the current ownership structure is maintained. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are very pleased that the Committee does not support the government's proposal to abolish county council ownership in Innovation Norway. The government’s argument has been that the current ownership structure is inconclusive and resource-intensive, but the committee here points to the county as a regional development operator responsible for and work in the fields of culture, transport, education and industry. Of the 53 hearing replies, only 14 were in favour of the proposal from the government, and the county municipalities were very clear that they wanted to maintain ownership of Innovation Norway. Therefore, the Stortinget government asks that the current ownership structure of Innovation Norway be maintained. The Government has also proposed the repeal of the legislative provisions of the regional governments. Although the government has proposed that the requirement for regional involvement and cooperation with county municipalities be maintained as today, we have been negative to this proposal by the Labour Party, as regional governments represent important local competences for the company, including: on business in their regions and is concerned with a greater interaction between the counties, economic operators and Innovation Norway. It is also a concern that the regional anchoring could be confused with this proposal. Therefore, together with the Centre Party, we propose that the government of the new Proposition of the Storting assume that the law of the regional governments should be continued. The Government’s proposal to downgrade the statutory number of board members in Innovation Norway is also not supported by the Business Committee. The Committee considers that the regional influence on elections to the Governing Council should be at least as today and that there should be a system of elections that gives the county councils real influence over the composition of the Governing Council. The Committee therefore asks the Government to consider that Innovation Norway should have a board of at least nine members. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to say that there has been a demanding process, as we received a different majority on different legislative changes. In the course of the treatment we also saw that this had to be adapted to a number of paragraphs. But I am pleased that we got into port in a way that makes a joint committee stand behind the proposal that the government should come back to the Stortinget with a new proposition. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for us to keep the objective of Innovation Norway, and that it is an important regional role that still has weight within it. Innovation Norway is and will continue to be a district agency. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that one with local competence continues to play an important role in the choice of priorities, the framework needed in the different areas of our country within this important company, and the types of priorities to be taken into account. In the end, I present the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1734	Then the representative Else-May Botten mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1737	I would like to join in the speech made by the rapporteur in the matter. There are two things that have been particularly focused on in the handling of the matter. One is the transfer of ownership to the state; the other is the view of the regional governments. I have to say that what I'm really wondering most about in this matter is the government's process up to the proposition that was made. It seems that one has not taken seriously enough that there are two owners of Innovation Norway and that the counties have been too little involved in the process. We can also see that from the hearing replies that came up about this. I would also like to make a few comments about the fact that we have a case that deals with a simple question: Should the State take over the ownership of Innovation Norway? We know that we have four parties that very often, at least in the past, have boasted very much of the new cooperation agreement that they have. Should it not have been clear from the government – by having a little feeling out – whether a majority in Stortinget has, before a person presents these kinds of things? We have had a process of 53 hearing replies – in fact, one has not come much longer. Furthermore, as regards the issue of regional governance, it is important from the point of view of the Central Party to stress that although a majority of the Committee wishes to maintain the legislative framework, this does not prevent innovation in Norway itself from being able to maintain regional governments. The likelihood of Innovation Norway drawing such a conclusion is also greater when one does not get a state-owned whole-time company here. I believe that the Committee has placed a very precise order on where the policy should be, and I expect the government to respond to it and come back to the matter. In an age of increasing unemployment, a well-functioning Innovation Norway is important. Many conversion processes are ongoing in Innovation Norway. I believe that the government must also consider this – find the balance between conversion and calm in the organisation Innovation Norway to arrive at the best-serving result for Norwegian districts, Norwegian entrepreneurs and Norwegian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1757	At the beginning of the Committee's joint comments, some important emphasis is placed on the need to organise innovation in Norway so that county and regional needs are properly addressed. This is precisely an important reason why the Left will have a shared ownership between the country and its county councils. The left considers, like the majority of the committee, that the government's proposal to remove the county council's ownership of Innovation Norway implies a weakening of the county council's ability to be an actor for regional development and regional anchoring. We are therefore pleased that an overall committee is behind the proposal that it should continue to be shared ownership, as it is today. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this way. When it comes to the issue of the legalisation of local governments, the Left supports the proposal to end the legislative process, while allowing regional governments to continue where appropriate. I believe that the Governing Council or the Governing Board is conscious of its responsibility and organises the business in the best way that serves customers around the country, that we get the best possible customer contact and impact out of the money and human resources available to Innovation Norway, both internationally and nationally – across the country, that it makes it possible for regional offices and those working there to ‘serve’ their territory, and that there will be room for even more specialisation, sharping, of competence in the different parts of the country, depending on the economic structure that applies. At the same time, it must be ensured that this does not mean that the customer must have access to at least equivalent advice and follow-up in any area, irrespective of where he is located in the country, irrespective of his address. The majority of the Committee considers that the removal of legislative provisions does not reduce regional ties. This is important. The resources saved by regional governance must be used for activity for the benefit of customers throughout the country, for the benefit of the groups of people, businesses and self-employed who Innovation Norway is set to serve and develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1766	Innovation Norway is an important tool for us to change, but also for innovation, which any society that wants to progress needs to have. Maybe now more than ever, I would say, at least in my political function, we need tools that both provide adaptability and facilitate innovation. We have an oil and gas industry that is inside tough days because of low oil prices, and that also presents challenges for our shipping. Therefore, Innovation Norway is important. We also have business that is now very successful. Low rates make our travel life strong. We have an emerging bioeconomy in Norway, among others. through the Eco-Technology Fund, which Innovation Norway has, and we have nanotechnology. When the committee tomorrow travels to the world's largest food fair, Green Week in Berlin, we must also be able to talk about agriculture and small scale and short-range food. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we take care of both proximity and knowledge. Our county councils, as regional development actors, have a lot of good knowledge. Now we can have regional governments, but we can't have regional governments, after today's majority in this room. But I probably want from this pulpit to challenge the county councils in terms of ownership – that they need to step up even more when it comes to taking part in their ownership of Innovation Norway – to make Innovation Norway the important tool it is for the economic development that must take place in each state. I and the Christian People's Party will also say in every region, for this matter, as we see it, should also have been seen together with the regional reform, which we will come to in a moment. Business owners who are entrepreneurs at the same time, yes, it is one of the most inspiring things I meet. You have researched, you have developed – we might say tried and failed – and finally you succeed. Meeting those who succeed is inspiring. We must have an instrument where Innovation Norway is part of the instrument that facilitates the survival and value creation of the good ideas. We have to be allowed to use that knowledge and all the wise minds that we have. We are world leaders in many areas. We must continue to do so. I would also say: yes, we have the wise minds, but also our natural resources – of which we have a lot, perhaps especially in the blue sector – provide a variety of opportunities that we need to become even more competent to use. Just in this transition, in this innovation, Innovation Norway will be an important instrument. That's why the Christian People's Party has the country together with the majority in this part, where we want to do something with the regional governments. We want to strengthen the main government to get the regions even heavier into the main government, but we maintain a ownership that the states and the state are going to have to have together.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1785	I believe, like Pollestad, that we have made a very precise order, and there has been a good dialogue in the Committee on how to organise Innovation Norway. The central has not been ownership, as seen. We have no objection that the county councils remain owners, although we believe that the county councils have a much greater role as a regional player, in the form of other dialogue with the company. What's been very central is getting control of the board function, so the company itself has control over how you want to organize. It has something to do with keeping a very neat relationship with the corporate organization itself. There's now a change, which is inside as an order to the department. It has also been important, as stated in the mandate, that there should be a majority of government-appointed board members. Then there will be a very tidy way to direct Innovation Norway. There I think it's been a very good process. It is important that Innovation Norway is well-functioning. They have an important role to play around in Norway, which has also been mentioned in the previous speeches. It is important to support the processes and entrepreneurs that exist out there. As I said, I think the setting available is a good order for the department. We have got through the most important thing, which is that the company itself has control over how to organize. And we look forward to the matter coming back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1792	SV has not been involved in the committee process – we only joined the committee in the new year – and our views are therefore not included in the discussion. Norway is a long-term country, and there are different challenges and opportunities in different parts of the country. The proposal states that the objective of giving county municipalities ownership in 2010, in addition to the role of contracting entity, was to strengthen the strategic and coordinating role of county municipalities. The county councils should be given an increased opportunity to influence the objectives, strategies and priorities of Innovation Norway, and in addition, the county should be given greater responsibility for the design and implementation of regional and national enterprise policies. And the county councils would have a stronger influence on the national overall framework. Thus, the interventions taken in 2010 were designed to strengthen the roles and opportunities of county councils in the development of their own region’s economic development. It was an act of transferring power from central to regional level. For SV, these objectives are as important in 2016 as they were in 2010. We do not fully manage to see how the Ministry's proposal for a centralisation of the governance structure and a change in ownership should be the right means of responding to and responding to regional needs. It seems that the desire to take into account corporate structure has been more important than the consideration of the societal mission and the regional instrument that Innovation Norway is and is set to take care of. Centralisation and coordination away from regional and local structures have gained some experience from other activities, both in Nav and elsewhere, and the results may not always be in line with the objective underlying the reorganisation. We have already been informed that it has become more difficult for regional actors to make representations after the changes in the structures around the regional offices in Innovation Norway. SV believes it is important that no decision is now taken which may further hamper the provision of regional input. SV therefore believes that regional governments must retain their place in the law and we are pleased with the Committee's recommendation that the current ownership structure be maintained. There are important interventions to ensure that the initial objectives of 2010 are met in Innovation Norway also in the course of its continuation. SV will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and we join the Committee's recommendation on the other points.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1807	We are within a period of high conversion needs in Norwegian business. In the short term, we need a tough adjustment to lower oil prices. In the long term, we need to convert to the low-emission society. The government is working hard to arm Norway for the future, and we are doing so with a wide range of measures. A key element is the creation of new growth businesses and growth in private, competitive business. The focus on research and innovation is important here – not least a well-functioning Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway is a special law company where the state owns 51 pst. and each of the counties owns 2,6 pst. The government has proposed changes to the Act on Innovation Norway to create a better framework for ownership management, for the management of the company and for the development of Innovation Norway as an organisation. Close dialogue with the county councils has taken place during the preparation of the legislative changes. The proposition reflects this dialogue both for changes that are agreed upon and for changes that differ between the owners. Business and Innovation Norway has also provided input into the process. The consultation of the legislative changes and the suspension of the Economic and Social Committee shows a broad consensus on the overall leadership of Innovation Norway, which should be the instrument of the State and State municipalities, and it should contribute to business and socio-economical economical economic development throughout the country. The broad agreement on the main routes is a good starting point for the contracting entities of the counties and departments, and it is a good starting point for ownership. The agreement on the main lines is also a good one for Innovation Norway, and for the company to be able to offer ever better and more relevant services to Norwegian business. Then there are different views on some of the framework conditions in the law. It has been a wish of the government that the specific legislation for Innovation Norway should be more similar to the general company law. Clear responsibilities and well-known principles of good ownership and corporate governance reduce uncertainty and allow the use of established frameworks to address small and large governance challenges. This wish also characterises the proposals for amendments. The Government proposed that responsibility for ownership management be added to the State alone, that the requirement for regional governments be abolished, and that ownership of the company's obligations be limited. The majority of the Committee has reached a different conclusion from the government on ownership and wants to maintain the current ownership structure with the State and 19 county municipalities as owners. This is a demanding model in practice, and we believe that adding responsibility for the regular follow-up to the state alone will not weaken county councils as regional development actors. The majority of the Committee agrees with the proposal to repeal the requirement for Innovation Norway to have regional governments. This will help to give the Board room for action to organise the application process for the benefit of Innovation Norway’s customers. District offices can also be more adapted to regional needs. A majority of the Business Committee wishes to increase the minimum number of members of the Management Board from six to nine. Nine chosen persons are a high minimum number in relation to what is usually the practice of other companies. However, this is a company that is to represent the whole country, and the increase may therefore be appropriate for the withdrawal of regional governments. Finally, there is a broad consensus both in the hearing, in the Business Committee and between the owners of Innovation Norway that ownership should be limited. This is in line with general company law for independent legal entities. The Economic and Social Committee decides to return the proposal to the government. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on a clear position on a matter of different political views. We will present a new proposal in line with the position as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1843	It's interesting to hear how the government feels about lifting the regional governments. Is it true that there is a real freedom to be able to have the regional governments in the future? How, if any, do you view their tasks? I also feel that the government has argued that the Governing Council is best suited to dealing with the various matters that are going to be dealt with. How, then, do you view the possible maintenance of regional governance around and what types of tasks can you have? Should you consider whether they should have new tasks, look at strategic solutions, rather than being a handling body financially, or how do you view the possibilities here?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1848	It is clearly the government's view, to which it is in agreement by a majority of the committee, that it must be voluntary to have regional governments. This means that the Innovation Council in Norway will have greater scope for action to develop both customer contact and processing for the benefit of users, entrepreneurs, businesses, innovation and business environments, and in line with the fact that it is the Governing Board that determines the internal organisation, they should also be able to establish the decision-making structure in line with developments in business and society. I think it can strengthen local offices, because one of the challenges today is that local offices have to deal with all kinds of issues. This in practice results in specialists staying in Oslo, while local offices become more of branches. The new model will allow for more specialisation regionally in line with regional needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1853	It's going to be exciting to see what this is going to be like in practice, but I thank you for the answer. I have one more specific question – whether the county is a regional development actor, especially in the field of business. The link with Innovation Norway is one of the most important fields — with food, change, etc. Regional competence here has been important. Then you see that the government, while wanting to remove the county as its owner, has also proposed cutting 500 million. kr in the regional development funds. How does the government feel that local expertise is being safeguarded when one wants to have a centralisation perspective over a regional perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1860	First, the question of regional development funds. They are important, but regional development is even more important. It's e.g. little that is more important for regional development than the good transport projects that we have accelerated in our time in government. It provides a basis for regional growth and development and is of greater importance overall than the county council's role in regional development, without underestimating the county council. The participation of the county council in regional processes and partnerships will continue. The requirements of Innovation Norway’s framework conditions at that point will remain the same. The overall premises for Innovation Norway are set out as before, by law, through the notification and follow-up of these, in order to ensure political leadership at both national and regional level, both on the part of the United Kingdom and through the processes under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1867	There is no doubt that regional development funds are important to ensure value creation. It is important that the adopted national transport plan is followed up, and it is important that we have a well-functioning Innovation Norway, which can assist business. We are in a situation in Norway where there is good progress in several industries — largely. One main explanation is a very weak crown. When the government looks at the overall development and value creation, there is a risk that one with an – I would say – artificially low Norwegian krone will quickly build up industries that could go on a click if the krone price normalizes itself again. It could be interesting to hear about the thoughts of the Council of State around this particular issue in a value creation perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1874	I think it's too easy to say when things go well – and very well – in a lot of states and regions and business there, that it's mainly due to the dollar rate. The krone course has contributed significantly to even better progress than before, but it is the knowledge, the expertise and the research and innovation efforts that we have that throw off. That is what Norway must build on in the future. We're not going to sit either in government or in big business and choose winning industries, but we're going to have to focus more on research and innovation. That's what this government is doing. Then the research we do will be matched by increased efforts in the private sector as well. That's what makes us look at growth and development. It is also the basis for the regions that are struggling to get out of the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1879	I understand the need of the Council of State and the government to point out the factors they themselves have to deal with, as an explanation that things are going well, but there is no doubt that the price of the crown also affects. Another factor that affects is that there is peace and stability around Innovation Norway. It hasn't been since. The issue of ownership has also created uncertainties about Innovation Norway. Then my question about the Council of State can say something about the government's work and the relationship with the majority and the cooperation agreement on the Stortinget. Because there is no doubt that here we have spent a long time discussing a matter which ends up with the government not getting a majority, which one could have simply checked out with its parliamentary basis in advance. Is this a decent way to drive political governance of Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1886	Innovation Norway has a complex governance structure: one main board, 15 regional boards, 20 owners, 40 letter of assignment, 130 board members. When there is a desire to simplify this structure and to clarify the position of responsibility, different views among stakeholders and different views are also made clear politically. It's a political question, it's not a process question. It's a political disagreement that means that we haven't had an impact on all our views, but we're pleased that we've had a round that will end up with better governance and a contribution to peacemaking, but also to creating creative unrest – and supporting creative unrest – that will create more innovation around the country. We are convinced that will come out of this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1891	At the moment of clarification here, I want to ask the Council of State a question. It says in the case that today there are 20 owners, 16 directors and 130 board members. Could the Council of State be clear if it is such that 16 still governs are wanted to be maintained locally and there is a local desire to do so, that they become it automatically? Or is it one thing they have to deal with with with the main board or possibly others? How do you relate to it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1896	Now we want to get back to Stortinget with a new case, but the starting point here is that it is the main board of Innovation Norway that determines the internal organisation. In this way, they should also be able to align decision-making structures in line with developments in business, in line with society elsewhere, including in line with regional needs. They will also be able to maintain regional governance if they see it as appropriate. But the point is to create a governance structure that is more in line with established company law principles, in line with good corporate governance principles, and we will come back with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1902	Then I understand that it is the main board that should initially be able to decide whether it is going to be regional governors around the future. But a little back to my questions instead: is it that the content of the tasks of the regional governments around the future will be adopted by the government in the matter before the Stortinget? Or does the government believe that it is the Governing Council that will also determine the types of tasks that regional governments should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1909	Based on the Committee's position and the different majority, the government will come back to Stortinget with a case that will elaborate these questions. However, I would like to stress that this is not about changing the objective, that Innovation Norway should be both the State and the county municipalities' tool for value-creating business development throughout the country. Nor does it alter the requirement for the company to be organised in a manner adapted to the different needs of the regions. Nor do we change the requirements for participation in regional processes and regional partnerships. This is about how the company should be better able to fulfil its obligations, to achieve its objectives, not to change the main objective of the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1914	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1919	Although we get this case back again, I still want to attach some comments to it. At a time when we need to change, it is important that we facilitate further development of the county council as an important development actor. As we have heard, over the last three years this government has proposed a cut of 500 million. kr in the regional development funds available to the counties. In the proposal we are discussing today, it is proposed to remove the regional governments as well as to cut the ownership of the county councils in Innovation Norway. But fortunately, this support is guaranteed not to cut ownership. This, however, shows a government that does not facilitate the use of county municipalities as the major regional development actors they could have been at a time when we especially need to convert in the regions of the South-West, which have major challenges. The Labour Party believes that the strength of Innovation Norway as a regional development actor is precisely in the regional organisational form. The different regions have different possibilities and assumptions, and the counties represent an important competence on which one should build. The county councils also have useful local knowledge and proximity to the regional business community, which is well anchored. They have the ability to mobilise regional resources and see different opportunities across sectors and industries. This is particularly important in the transformation of Norwegian business. We have noticed that eleven county councils that have issued a hearing opinion are negative to the proposal. We see a government that in several areas promotes matters that are centralizing. This case shows a new step in the same direction. In the past, the government has made Innovation Norway funds more nationwide and reduced the sector-specific and geographical instruments, which in turn has led to leaving the possibility of an active industrial policy. Norway is a country with a variety of geographical differences, and we are very concerned that the regional anchoring of Innovation Norway will be weakened as a result of government proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1936	Some claims were made in the last article that have to be commented on. The county is a completely independent entity, with elected representatives from the counties, and has a separate, independent role to play as a regional development actor. It's full respect for that. We have said that they also play an important role in relation to Innovation Norway, without the regional governments. That's the one. The second is that a corporate structure that actually facilitates the building of specialist environments outside, instead of bringing together all the expertise in Oslo and having satellites out in the regions that should be able to do everything, I just can't believe that is centralization. I think of it as the opposite -- here you add that Innovation Norway can actually organise itself in a completely different and decentralised way. So here we fundamentally disagree on how to tackle and build up those kinds of actors. That also gives the Stortinget a completely different opportunity to verify that this is actually happening, because now you can relate to one government in Innovation Norway. If they don't fulfill their mission so that the Storting is satisfied, you have one actor to deal with. If you have a number of regional governments out there and have organized the company so that you really don't know who to talk to when you don't get the organization you want, you get centralization. So here we fundamentally disagree on what is centralization and decentralization, and that's what I thought it was okay to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1947	It's an important thing for the whole country we're talking about today. I don't think we need to talk down Innovation Norway and the regional governments as it is today, because there's an incredible amount of special expertise around the country, and that's exactly what we want to preserve. If you move all that competence and say that it's the main board in Oslo that's going to sit and decide everything, and that knows everything best, neither is it an image that I can share with Gunnar Gundersen, although there are a lot of people who are good at that board, I'm sure. As the matter stands, and as the majority believe, it is now important to have a distribution in the Governing Council that helps the county councils to recognise themselves, and to maintain local competence also in the main board. Because it is precisely what needs to be important to us, in order to preserve regional governments, that there is local competence there. I think that the board has perhaps been used too little in relation to the local competence that is actually in place – not just to have a credit rating or to deal with matters in that area, but one should respect the competences of governments in strategic assessments and on how Innovation Norway should help the business community around the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1954	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1969	On 17 December 2009, the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Serbia was signed and entered into force on 1 July 2011. However, in the summer of 2010 at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting – i.e. after the signature of this Free Trade Agreement but before its entry into force – it was decided that all ongoing and future negotiations on free trade agreements should negotiate to include a separate chapter on trade and sustainable development. For this reason, the EFTA requested that a chapter on this be included in the Free Trade Agreement with Serbia and that the claim and the purpose of the Agreement be updated. It accepted Serbia. The Protocol amending the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA countries and Serbia was signed on 20 May last year. Since ratification of the Protocol is considered a matter of particular importance, the consent of the Storting to ratification is necessary under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The Protocol amending the Free Trade Agreement has been submitted to all departments, all of which recommend ratification. It also considers a unanimous nutrition committee. I can also add that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has had the draft opinion of the Economic and Social Committee and is unanimous in agreeing to this recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1978	I very much appreciate the unanimous vote of the Committee on the consent to the ratification of a protocol amending the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Serbia. The Free Trade Agreement with Serbia is part of Norwegian West Balkans policy. This policy is to integrate the countries of the Western Balkans into European and transatlantic structures, work for political stability in the region, contribute to social and economic development and support for democratisation. I believe that the extension of the FTA by including a chapter on trade and sustainable development supports this policy. The bands between Norway and Serbia are close. The many Yugoslav prisoners of war in Norway during World War II provided the basis for close cooperation between Yugoslavia and Norway. This contact was institutionalised in the post-war period through friendship associations and government cooperation. Norway has a high profile in Serbia, among others. due to extensive Norwegian assistance and the fact that we have been the second largest foreign investor in recent years. In 2011, the free trade agreement entered into force further strengthened the relationship. This is an important agreement for both countries. The agreement has helped to increase imports from Serbia and has ensured a level playing field for Norwegian exporters in Serbia as well as EU companies. The main objective of a free trade agreement is to increase trade. I am very happy to announce that this has happened between Norway and Serbia. The trade figures for 2015 are three times as high as for 2011. Most of this increase is due to increased imports from Serbia. There is still a modest trade, but I hope it will increase further in the years to come. The negotiations on the Protocol result from the good relationship and common interest between EFTA and Serbia. The Protocol may contribute to the raising of awareness and acceptance of trade in a way that contributes to sustainable development. The Government therefore requests the consent of Stortingen to ratify the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e1993	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Then Stortinget takes a break until noon. Seventy-five. The stork took a break at 0 p.m. 3:45. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2017	It's nice to see so much pressure here. Well, there are refugees you're concerned about, but maybe not refugees with disabilities -- we'll see. Back to the case: The news picture has been marked by the refugee disaster in the last few months. The debate here at home, as in other European countries, has so far been largely about how we can limit the arrival of asylum seekers without the need for protection. The next stage is how we can get a good integration of those who actually get to stay. Three refugee settlements have so far been concluded in Stortinget, the first on exceptional reception of quota refugees due to the situation in Syria, the second on restrictions on access to asylum in Norway for persons without a residence basis, the third on measures to improve integration. It is the government that is now responsible for coming back to the Storting with proposals for concrete measures that satisfy the differences. This is the back cover of the interpellation. But more specifically, this interpellation concerns the perhaps most vulnerable group of the world's refugees, namely refugees with disabilities, and how we in Norway can go ahead and take our share of responsibility for this vulnerable group of refugees in a good way. As I say in the interpellation, the UN General Assembly in 1992 decided that December 3rd every year should be the International Day for the Disabled. Since then, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has entered into force. Norway signed in 2007 and ratified in 2013. The Convention does not initially confer any new and specific rights on people with disabilities, but, unfortunately, represents an essential emphasis on human rights for all. It also concerns the right to protection against persecution and the right to apply for asylum. According to the UN, there is a close link between poverty and disability. 80 pst. of all people with disabilities living in poor countries, and the relationship goes both ways. Poverty leads to disability. More than half of all disabilities in the world are caused by injuries and diseases that could have been avoided if everyone had had an adequate health supply. In addition, war itself leads to more damage to life. Disability is, on the other hand, leading to an increase in poverty due to a lack of education and work for those affected. So we're talking about the poorest of the poor. According to the United Nations, 98 pst. of people with disabilities in poor countries without access to rehabilitation services. In addition, in poor countries, 90 pst. by children with disabilities not in school. During the United Nations Summit from 6 to 7. on education for development here in Oslo, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was appointed a UN Commission on Health and Education. The lack of education for children in crisis situations, such as the Nepal earthquake or the refugee crisis in and around Syria, was a review theme during the conference. A related question will therefore be: What do we do ourselves — how can we contribute? About 1 billion or 15 pst. Of the world's population, 9 million of the world's 60 million refugees, of whom 30 million – half, in other words – are children. 9 million out of 60 million are also about. 15 pst. This is also the number we recognize from our own country. At home, approx. 15 pst. that they live with a disability. In that context, there may be reason to believe that worldwide figures are a little too low, because according to the UN, at least three people become disabled for every person killed in war, but let's still take the official figures – they're challenging enough. Let's say it's 15 pst. of the refugees we're talking about. The next logical question is: How much of the refugees living in Norway are people with disabilities? I have tried to find out, but have not succeeded. It is possible that the Council of State knows that, but probably it is very few – and much less than 15 pst. It is unlikely that there are very many of those who come here, who are seeking asylum and finally get refugee status in Norway, who are people with disabilities. But what about the quota refugees? On last year's World Day for Persons with Disabilities, December 3, the Atlas Alliance and Plan Norway published a chronicle on the NRK Opinion under the heading Last in the queue. In the introduction, it said: ‘Functional-impaired refugees are ignored by the auxiliaries. Now, the Norwegian authorities have to meet the obligations required by international agreements.» I allow myself to quote a little bit more: ‘Think of being on the run from Syria in a wheelchair, on crutches through the jungle in Burundi, or blind in a small rubber boat on the way across the Mediterranean. This harvest has finally brought the world up to the challenges and sufferings of people on the run. It's about time. But still the refugees who have it all are overlooked and forgotten." And on the other hand, ‘And they don’t just end up last considering who will get here as quota refugees – here they don’t even get into the queue.’ In 2012, the NTNU report published twice as vulnerable – disabled children and young people in receptions of asylum. One of their findings was that the number of children with disabilities in reception is low and that the competence to detect disabilities is poor. On the other hand, we know that families with disabled children find it difficult to live in Norwegian municipalities, because the municipalities fear extra costs. Those who had needed it the most, in other words, end up at the back of this line and are sitting on reception longer than others. One part of my question therefore applies if the Council of State will take the initiative to provide us with a systematic record of disability when people seek asylum in Norway, so that we can deal with the offer to which we are obliged, in accordance with international conventions. One thing is physical disability – another and even more demanding task will be different degrees of mental retardation and cognitive difficulties. In the case of quota refugees, we also know little. According to UDI statistics for 2015, there were 2 120 quota refugees, 40 of them – or less than 2 pst. – was removed on a medical basis. If any of them had permanent disabilities, there's nothing about it. And what about the future? In the refugee agreement, Stortinget has decided to accept 8 000 additional Syrian quota refugees in the period 2015-2017. Then we decide who we are to accept. The second part of my question therefore concerns whether the Council of State will consider how Norway can take its part in the responsibility for disabled refugees. The Health Declaration states that the government will give priority to quota refugees with the greatest chance of successful integration. The formulation has been repeated in the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. How these formulations are to be interpreted when we are to determine who is to come as quota refugees to Norway is not given without a doubt. Does the government and the majority of refugees with disabilities view as more difficult to integrate than others, so that they are overlooked when the quota refugees are to be selected? It would have been interesting if it could have been highlighted in the debate here today. How will the bulk of population increase the proportion and number of quota refugees with disabilities to Norway? In a more fair world, actually, 15 pst should be. of the quota refugees both to Norway and to other countries have been disabled people. The same should be true of asylum seekers who are granted residence. But it's not like that. But it could perhaps be a goal to reach for – pick up some of the ones at the back of the queue, if they get into any queue at all. So these are the most vulnerable people in wars and conflicts. The children are at their worst. They are the most vulnerable of the vulnerable. A good start could be to raise awareness of these people's needs by allowing them to fit into the quotas we're taking out, along with the UN. Finally, Article 11 of the United Nations Convention on Risk Situations and Humanitarian Emergencies states that the Parties shall, in accordance with their obligations under international law, take all necessary measures to ensure the protection and security of persons with disabilities in risk situations, including armed conflict, humanitarian emergencies and natural disasters. It's not like that today. It could be a worthy continuation of Norway's proud traditions in the field of refugees if we could now go to the fore to see the needs of these people and do something for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2068	Refugees with disabilities are persons with special needs. Without a conscious view of this, they are at risk of getting at the back of the queue in many contexts. In the context of assistance, therefore, Norway, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is working to bring this group forward so that they can be more adapted to help. Norway is not least working to provide disabled refugee children with appropriate training. It is important to realise that different degrees of disability may include a wide range of conditions and related relief needs. The state may be of both a physical and a mental nature, but with good organisation, disability will be less noticeable for the individual. They will then be more able to take an active part in society. Norway does not make a systematic record of disability among asylum seekers or refugees. It is the Foreign Database used for the registration of asylum seekers and refugees. At present, the functionality of the Foreign Database does not allow for systematisation of disability information. Technically, it is likely that it will be possible to change it. In this case, there had to be a clear purpose and a specific need for the foreign and integration authorities to record and store this type of information. As I see it, the foreign and integration authorities do not need this type of person-sensitive information on asylum seekers and refugees, and there is no purpose to justify the collection and storage of such information. Information on disability is to be considered to be personal data sensitive under the Data Protection Act. This type of registration and storage could then be contrary to the Data Protection Act. The fact that a person has a disability of some kind is not sufficiently relevant to the foreign and integration authorities. If an asylum seeker has some form of disability, the information will be provided in individual cases and included in the assessments. In any case, the most important thing will be the question of whether the person has a need for protection. If a disabled person has been granted a residence permit and is to be resident in a municipality, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity will have access to the information on health challenges that may lie in the matter so that it can be included in the work of housing in a municipality. With regard to the migration allowance, both Norway and other countries are accepting refugees with different types and degrees of disability. Norway has a subquota for refugees with a high medical needs, this year has a 60-place. The priority here is given to refugees who, with specialised treatment in Norway, may become healthy or become rid of disabilities. However, Norway is also taking out people with medical needs and those with special needs within the ordinary quota spaces. It is voluntary for municipalities to settle refugees, and I want it still to be so. It is then important to take into account the capacity of municipalities to provide adapted service. We have to make sure that we can make good offers to the refugees we choose to transfer to Norway. In quota matters, health information is collected for matters promoted on the medical sub-quota, but it is intended for the health authorities in Norway for the purposes of follow-up and treatment. The information is in individual cases but is not explicitly recorded in the Foreign Database. Finally, I would also like to say that it would be ethical to have to register information on health-related conditions for asylum seekers and refugees in databases that do not adequately serve health-care purposes. The Data Protection Act must apply to these, in the same way as to citizens of Norway in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2087	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm sure the Council of State understands that I wasn't very excited about the answer. What is the challenge here is how we accept and how we get into the process of integrating people with disabilities, children with disabilities, who are going to stay here in Norway. It's an important thing. It is such an important matter that the organisations of the disabled people themselves point out what happened as the NTNU Double Vulnerability report also pointed out: it is very random what is happening. It is almost personalised upon the reception of the kind of offer given to people with disabilities. There are no guides. The receivers are not universally designed. I was in contact with both the Norwegian Handicap Federation and the FFO before the debate here today and asked: What is their experience? What role do you as voluntary organizations play in relation to the people we are talking about here? Is there contact between you and authorities at different levels? Both responded relatively equally. There are few refugees or asylum seekers with disabilities coming to Norway, but there are some, including those with whom the organisations have had contact. Organisations can tell that accessibility has not been taken into account at the different receptions to which they are sent, nor is there access to or proximity to the necessary health institutions, which has led to very major challenges for the individual. None of the organisations has been contacted by the foreign authorities to contribute to their competence. The JRC, for its part, has an application from Bufdir for training of staff on reception, information to disabled asylum seekers on rights and opportunities and on the means to link disabled asylum seekers with membership organisations, counties and equal persons. And then it's essentially necessary that we know who these people are. An example that was mentioned at the UN meeting last year was an asylum seeker who was deaf, who had sought to come to Ål Folkhøgskole, but there was nothing of it. We are talking about people having to integrate, that they have to learn Norwegian. This was then a person who went for years without being able to talk to anyone. How on earth would this person be able to learn Norwegian at all? So I think the Council of State had a very bureaucratic approach to the question, and I hope that the Council of State, when she gets to think about it a little bit, sees that there's a point in knowing who these people are to give them a good offer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2094	I fully agree that we can definitely get better, and I will go on to offer a better offer. It's true in most areas. But at the same time, I think that the situation that has been at the receptions this past six months has been very demanding. There has been a tremendous pressure on the receptions we have, and the UDI has had its full rent to manage to maintain enough space to provide those who come to Norway and seek protection, roof over their heads and the facilities they need. So in many ways, there's been an exceptional state in the six months that we're now behind. So I think that to the extent that, in order to improve the situation, you can get involved with these organizations that are mentioned, I'm of course in favour of it. But once again, it is important to stress that there has been a special situation, where priority has been given to the tasks to be carried out, and who has actually had time to cooperate with. So it's also a fact that it's more difficult to settle people with disabilities than those who are functionally healthy, and that's something we have to work for all the time, to get them out in Norwegian municipalities. What I get feedback about is that the municipalities that take most of these are medium-sized and large municipalities. This is probably due to the fact that they can make it easier to give them an offer than many small municipalities can, which may have a small service facility initially, and where an extra demanding user can provide quite great challenges for the municipality. But it's quite clear that we can get better. We're going to work to stay, and these people are going to have the same rights to the data protection law that every other citizen in Norway has. It has to be an important premise anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2105	I would like to thank the representative Lise Christoffersen, who, in the light of the UN decision on the international day for the disabled, was about to address such an important topic – precisely in the light of today's situation. It has been quickly done that such things disappear in the great attention given to the asylum situation. This could be the group that needs us the most. They don't go on trains, and they have no one to raise their case. Disability can be both physical, mental and social, and the question addressed to the Council of State is whether a systematic registration can be made. When we read that 9 million out of 60 million are in this category, it's clear that Norway will get its share, and this will be a topical matter for us. There is every reason to stop these people living with and under, in addition to the troubled situation of society and the country of these people. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway needs to ensure that this is monitored and registered, if possible, so that they can be settled and integrated in the best possible way. In order to succeed, the authorities and municipalities need to have such information in order to cooperate on good local solutions, and there may be a number of institutions that need to get on the road to do so. Unfortunately, this group is always the last and is in danger of losing twice in the fight for dignified living conditions, in emergency situations and in the possibility of seeking protection. There may also be opportunities for schooling, for proper health care and, in particular, for demanding safety situations. Refugees with protective needs coming to us may have experienced terrible acts of war, deaths and killings in close proximity, and they may have traumas and crisis reactions, including late reactions. We need to look at this for several reasons — in addition to physical disabilities that some people may have. First of all, we need to look at it to see if it can affect the basis of residence. For the refugee, telling about his situation can be a safeguard that means predictability and security for his own health and future. For society, it can mean prevention, safety and the organisation of housing and integration. Should the municipalities be able to receive someone, they expect to receive relevant information to provide offers and meet expectations. Municipalities want to be well prepared and, if necessary, have an agreement with hospitals or others to get this done. If the disabled person with special needs is a child or a single minor asylum seeker, it is particularly important to ensure the quality of the registration when applying for a stay in Norway. The council says that it may be technically possible to get this done, but it has not been normal. It was okay to hear, but she asks further questions as to whether this has a purpose, and whether it is expedient. I then remind you that in an asylum interview situation, there are questions about writing down skills, language skills and education – a question about a number of information about the person. I believe that it must also be relevant to involve the health situation. For the general public, the data protection law and data protection apply, but health information is also retained in agreement with the person concerned, which is a common concern. When I go to the hospital doctor, or someone else is going to have a hospital stay, there is the relevant archive for this. I understand that there is an extra demanding situation now, but the question from Christoffersen and the answer from the Council of State will hopefully provide the basis and focus on how we in Norway can take this part of the responsibility for accepting asylum seekers and quota refugees with special needs. It's a matter where we get to try out our system to care for sufficient care and humanity. One day for people with disabilities in the United Nations system must not become mere words and speeches; it must be made concrete. I thank you for the answer and look forward to further cooperation if we can manage to improve this even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2129	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting an important question on the agenda. Then I would like to say that I think the post to the representative Tuskedal was good, especially the last part, where he correctly points out that there are opportunities in Norway today under health law so that you can actually both collect and keep this in a relatively good way. It's for all of us, so it'll be fully possible. There's a two-part question asked by the interpellant. If the Council of State chooses to be a little bureaucratic in terms of the first part of the question, it should be possible to be something more political in what I see as the second part of the question in the interpellation. It is about how the Council of State sees Norway as part of the responsibility for refugees with disabilities when we accept quota refugees for residence with us. I think the Council of State could answer that question. It's more of a political matter. So I just want to mention that the Council of State was involved – at least in its first post – that there were a number of municipalities that refused to settle refugees with disabilities. They were afraid of the local economy. It is also a political matter. It can help the Council of State. The question is whether the Council of State is willing to look at it, whether these municipalities are large or small.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2140	I would also like to thank the interpellant, Lise Christoffersen, for bringing up a very important matter. As the interpellant said, disabled refugees and asylum seekers are the most vulnerable of the vulnerable. And as she also said, they are at the back of the queue and may not be registered and will be allowed to stay. They also apply to quota refugees. It's important, I think, that Norway takes its share of responsibility here and that we do what we can to help those who come to our country and that we get to a good integration. I did not experience that the Council of State's response was as low and negative as Christoffersen did. I experienced that the Council of State just said that those who come to the country have the same rights as all the others who come to apply for asylum and are to stay here, and that at receptions it is made possible to provide health services. We have registration systems that capture those who need something extra, both for organisation and health care. I have been with myself in my previous life as an employee in a municipality and have been responsible for health services at reception, where we also had disabled people. It is clear that today we have an extraordinary situation at our receptions. They're overcrowded, we don't have all the stuff in place. But when you identify needs, I'm pretty sure you can do what you can to meet this group that needs support, organisation and health care in order to work best, learn language, get into Norwegian society and work as well as anyone else in Norwegian society who strives with their disability. I also think it is a good idea to contact the disabled people's organisations and get tips, drag and support on how to do this work even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2149	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. It's obvious that if you have disabilities and experience that your country is going to war, you're obviously in a more vulnerable situation than others, but it's also clear that a lot of people get hurt and suffer disability from war. That's why it's with a little bit of dismay SV has looked at the signals that the government and the cooperation parties came up with at the very beginning, namely that you had to change criteria, among other things. for withdrawals of quota refugees, so that it was the most integrated to come to Norway — those who could support themselves and had no problems. I'm afraid that's completely contrary to what war is all about. It's about someone getting hurt and destroyed, and then well whoever's going to help, should be busy helping those who need it the most, and not be most concerned about their own needs. So here you kind of put the helper in the center. We had a case last year where the government claimed that 123 Syrians could not be accepted, war refugees were injured because the municipalities of Norway could not accept them. We then made a proposal after we had checked with the municipalities. Only eight municipalities were asked – so the municipalities were not asked. We did a survey in the large municipalities, and it was the capacity of the large municipalities to receive these refugees, but the government would not hear. They owed them to the municipalities. The network of municipalities working on this was open that they could actually do this, but it was the government that had prevented it. So you didn't want to help those who had the most difficulty. I hear that the Council of State has ethical concerns about registering people with different types of injuries. That's good, but I get a sad feeling that this concern is being used as an excuse for not helping those who actually need it. To put it that way – there must be some ethical concerns by having rules that give priority to those who can do the best. That's the one. The second is that there's actually opportunities to get around this if you want to. The UN High Commissioner is asking us to do that, as they did at the time to accept the 123. Now we have a medical allowance, and I'm assuming it's going to be taken out somehow. Then you have to register this somehow. What concerns do not exist for the group to be removed according to medical criteria, but which suddenly exist for others who are not removed, is a little difficult to understand. After all, it was possible to reject these 123 that the United Nations had actually told us that we needed the most help, without any ethical concerns at the time. I feel that here the law is used to obstruct that you actually go in and help more of those who either experience a war situation and have a disability from before, or get it in the war. One of the first things I worked with as a big-time representative was about an Ethiopian child soldier who had trotted on a landmine and become blind. He had come to Norway. We stayed for 10 years with that case before he got to stay in Norway. Then, too, the argument was as I hear today: if we went to this human being, all the blind child soldiers around the world would come to Norway and seek asylum, and we had to prevent that. If there is someone who needs our protection, it must be, for example, children who have been forced to become child soldiers, and who are injured in the war and become blind. It is part of the story that this human being, after good help from the Blind Alliance today, is in full employment in Norway. That's how this can actually end up with what the government is concerned about, which is called good integration – it's SV busy too – but a slightly more open attitude to being able to prioritize those who are actually the most vulnerable to war and horror, I would have hoped that the government had. I record that the Christian People's Party participates in the debate and is set to do so. At least that gives you a little bit of hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2164	I will be allowed to thank you for the debate. It's an important topic that might have deserved us to have had an even longer debate, but I do, after all, perceive some positive signals from the hall. I think the invitation that Mr Tuskedal, who is a representative of one of the majority parties in Stortinget, made a good promise. The government is working on a new action plan for people with disabilities. Perhaps disabled refugees had earned a place in the new action plan. I also see Right Bente Stein Mathisen as positive to keep working on these questions. There has been talk of municipalities and municipal economy. I myself was the rapporteur in the municipality of Drammen when we had the situation in the Balkans, and that was what Karin Andersen said from the pulpit, that we worked together across municipal borders. The municipality of Drammen, who might have had a stronger and better health service for people with mental problems, offered to contribute to other municipalities that did not have an equally good offer. Municipalities with a surplus of housing said they were willing to contribute to it, so it is important for municipalities to cooperate. At the bottom of the debate, it might have been nice to remember some personal stories that illustrate what this is about, that it's not just numbers and statistics. One example is Sara of 17 years from South Sudan who in her young life witnessed rape, murder, kidnappings, she fled with the family that was split up, and lost all but Grandma. Sara is disabled. She walked on foot, with great trouble and pain, along with grandmother and came to a refugee camp in Ethiopia, where she is now. Everyone wants to go home from there, but it's impossible, because everything's ruined where they came from. She's not safe in the refugee camp. I saw that the Council of State was on a refugee camp visit last week and said that she had the impression that they were doing well. Sara's not doing well in the refugee camp she's in, in Ethiopia, because the evil is there too. She was raped in the camp, got pregnant. Now she's a disabled mother and without hope. We could give such a hope to her. We could give Sarah a hope. Then we have another example in Sally Kamara, 19 years old, originally from Sierra Leone, sitting in a wheelchair, but living in Norway. She is a fireworks company of energy and action and started 15 years old own business. Now, as a 19-year-old, she runs her own help organization, sending technical aids to Sierra Leone. She shows that the people we're talking about here, not only are a burden, but can actually add something positive to the Norwegian society in terms of its resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2176	Thank you for a good and important debate. I hear the representative Andersen admit me to a number of opinions and attitudes in which I am not at all familiar. It must be allowed to be concerned with privacy considerations without then stamping on the fact that you are busy with other things and using it as a shell cover. I don't use it as a scalpel. I am concerned about privacy. Registration could be contrary to the Data Protection Act, which I was in upon, and I think that is important. It is also the case that the IMDi has access to information on health challenges that may lie in the matter. There is important information when these people are to be settled in the municipalities, because it is clear that if we do not know that kind of information, there is no reason why it should be difficult to accommodate these people when they are going to live. Norway assumes a considerable responsibility for the housing of people with disabilities. We've actually increased the number of people who live in the last few years. It has been common with 20 medical places on that quota. Both in 2015 and now in 2016, 60 places have been entered. I think Norway is doing a good job there. Then you can always discuss community economics. You also do that in these cases. What is quite clear is that it is the medium-sized and the large that take those who are particularly heavy, and those who have major challenges, the most resource-intensive. It's probably because it's easier, as I said, to give them an offer there. I would also like to say that municipalities across the country accept people with less disabilities. This has been an important debate which, of course, we have to take input from beyond. Now it's like we have to work to give these people a better offer at receptions, but I also ask for understanding that the last six months has been relatively demanding for those who have worked in this system, where actually the first priority has been to give to those who come to Norway, thanks to their heads and the services needed to give them acceptable relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2195	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2277	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2286	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2293	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure that agricultural remedial action is taken over the State budget so that the compensatory means for the withdrawal of export subsidies are gradually increased as export volumes reach 2020.’ The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2313	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The biggest request is that the phasing-out of agricultural export subsidies be carried out by 2020, in line with the WTO Decision of 19 December 2015.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2347	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to resume its plans for Antarctica’. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2461	During the debate Else-May Botten put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the law of regional governments in Innovation Norway is maintained.’
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2500	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on IV and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2514	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of I to III and V and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2540	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2571	Thus, today's map has been processed. Audun Lysbakken has asked for the floor before the sitting is closed, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees that the representative is given the floor, thus giving the floor to the Lighthouse, which has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, also according to § 54. Admissibility of asylum seekers to Russia
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2579	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to ask questions to the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug in connection with the reports that shipments of asylum seekers are now underway from Finnmark to Russia. There is a great deal of concern about what kind of criteria are now being used to return to Russia, and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees just a few days ago has come up with crass criticism of Norway. In this situation, it is necessary for the Storting to gain insight into what kind of groups of asylum seekers are now returning to Russia and to have a basis for deciding whether we mean Norway is acting inside or outside international law. Together with the Helsinki Committee and Amnesty, the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation has warned the High Commissioner about the new Norwegian practice of rejecting in practice asylum seekers entering Norway across the Norwegian-Russian border – a practice they consider to be contrary to the right to apply for asylum. The European Chief of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees stated to NTB on Friday 15 January that Russia is not a safe country for return. Jon Ole Martinsen, senior adviser in NOAS, says to the NRK on 17 January that he “fears that the consequence is that we send people to death”. Earlier this month, there has also been strong criticism from internal debates in the UDI. We have had concerns today from a number of lawyers. Everything revolves around the issues of whether it is such that people with short stays, people who can have real protection needs, who have used Russia as a refugee, are cut off from both the possibility to apply for asylum and to have a real complaint in Norway, and whether we risk putting ourselves in a situation where Syrian asylum seekers are sent back to Russia. We must trust that the regime in Russia – as is well known to be very positive about the regime in Syria – does not send refugees back to Syria. Russia has recently been sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights to refuse access to asylum procedures for Syrian refugees and instead to have tried to send them to Syria. The information now available from lawyers and organisations suggests that Norway has in practice introduced a rule that does not allow anyone crossing the border across Storskog to receive a real treatment of their asylum applications. This means that, for example: Syrian refugees who have only been in Russia for a few days on transit can be returned there. No one opposes the rapid return of asylum seekers who have had a long-term stay or who have been legally resident in Russia, or asylum seekers who come from countries where there is obviously no need for protection. However, if people with a real need for protection end up in a situation where they never receive treatment of their application, or are returned to a country where they may be subjected to persecution or abuse, Norway violates our international obligations. I would also like to add that the SV Group has today been in contact with several lawyers who are deeply concerned about how asylum matters are now being handled. In particular, it concerns the non-existent right of appeal, which they consider to be in conflict with Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights on effective remedies and the right to have their case tried. There is a very serious criticism and very important question addressed to the government. I therefore expect clear and honest answers from the Council of State, and I want to ask the following questions: Can the State Council assure the Storting that the Norwegian authorities are not now sending back refugees who are at risk of being transferred to a country where they are being persecuted, tortured, inhumane treatment or death – which our international conventions and obligations require of us? The Council of State may inform the Government of whether the deployment of Syrian asylum seekers is planned without a permanent residence permit in Russia, for example. persons with short-term permits such as tourist visas or multi-entry visas, as mentioned in the government’s instructions? Will the strong criticism that Norway has received from the United Nations lead to some sort of re-examination of the legislation in question and the relevant instructions to ensure that Norwegian policy is consistent with our international commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2607	At a time when we are under heavy pressure on our asylum and reception systems, it is important that people who do not have the right to stay in Norway, for example. because they have resided in a safe third country, has a rapid decision on their case, followed by a rapid return. As Stortinget is well known, it was a dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers who came to Norway over Storskog last autumn. The influx created enormous pressure on the registration and reception capacity and threatened the entire asylum system. It was absolutely necessary for Norwegian authorities to reverse developments in Storskog. The legislative changes and instructions of last autumn were key actions and contributed to the control of the situation by the Norwegian authorities. I am pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget were behind the legislative changes, which have contributed to the absence of asylum seekers across Storskog since 30 November last year. It is important to stress that the central condition for returning a person to a third country is that the person is not at risk of being treated in breach of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights or of being forwarded to a country where he is at risk of such treatment. The international law does not require the processing of an asylum application in the country to which it is returned. That is why we changed the Foreign Affairs Act last autumn, so that this condition was removed from the law. The government believes that Russia is a safe country for most third-country nationals, where there is normally no risk of inhuman treatment or of being passed on to a country with such a risk. Therefore, the starting point is that an asylum application should be rejected if the foreigner has resided in Russia. Whereas it is necessary for the foreign authorities to make a specific assessment in each case; This is the starting point for the Direction of the Ministry of Justice and Security to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs on the treatment of asylum applications by persons who have been resident in Russia. Returning to other countries without a right of residence in Norway will in most cases result in their return to more difficult conditions than they have lived in Norway, simply because Norway is one of the best countries in the world to live in. This does not mean, however, that we cannot or should not carry out such returns. For applicants who have a visa to Russia of a shorter duration and come from an area where the situation is considered to be somewhat more insecure, a further assessment of the specific risk of return may be necessary. I have been informed by the Foreign Affairs Department that everyone who is currently to be transported is persons who either have a multi-visa or a residence permit in Russia. I have received a letter from UNHCR, expressing their views on the changes in the law that Stortinget adopted last autumn, and the subsequent instructions. UNHCR is an important partner for the Norwegian authorities, and I will therefore go through the letter in depth. However, Norwegian authorities do not always agree with UNHCR assessments. We will have a meeting with UNHCR later in January. This will be an arena for us to discuss the theme. A request, known as ‘rule 39’, has been sent to the European Court of Human Rights to stop returns from Norway to Russia. I am not aware that the court has yet given its opinion on the matter. I must therefore come back to this on a later occasion. I would also like to point out that last December Oslo Byfogdembete dealt with an application for temporary enrichment in a Storskog case. The case was of a Syrian family who had arrived from Russia and had been denied treatment of their asylum application in Norway. The family had been in Russia for four days, and the court found that this qualified to stay in the sense of the law. The court found that the decisions were not invalid, as it was considered that there was no real danger that the family would be sent to Syria if they were returned to Russia. In addition, Landinfo informed the court that they have recently been in contact with UNHCR — that was in December. The UNHCR informed that they have no knowledge of the dispatch of any refugees to Syria from Russia since July 2014. Decisions have been taken on the expulsion of Syrian citizens, but these decisions have been converted by general courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2624	The President will now open up the possibility that the other groups will have the floor once each for up to 3 minutes. Then the questioner and the state council will have the word one more time for up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2627	When, on 16 November, the Stortinget examined the proposal to remove the condition that asylum seekers have to have their application for protection processed on return to third countries, the Labour Party pointed out that the proposal was not subject to consultation and that there was very little discussion in the proposal. We nevertheless chose to support the amendment of the law, but on clear terms, and I quote from the representative Helga Pedersen's contributions to that debate: ‘On the part of the Workers’ Party, it is a prerequisite for our support for the proposal that it lies within our international obligations relating to the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, as expressed in the Proposition. The basic condition for rejecting an asylum application and returning the applicant to a country where he has previously resided is that it must be safe to return the applicant to the third country in question. Furthermore, it is a condition that the non-refoulement principle of the Refugee Convention should be respected, i.e.: protection against being passed on to a country or an area where there is persecution. With this clarification, the Labour Party supports the proposal.’ On the basis of a press survey in which UDI employees are concerned by the instructions prepared by the Ministry of Justice and Defence following the amendment of the law, the representative of Parliament Helga Pedersen asked 11 January of this year a question to the Council of State Listhaug on what the government has done to ensure that the instructions on rapid processing for asylum seekers who have been resident in Russia are in line with international law. In the reply from Listhaug, it says: ‘It is my view and that of the Government that the relevant instructions are in line with our obligations under international law. The instructions state that Russia is a safe country for most third-country nationals and that the starting point is that an asylum application should be rejected if the foreigner has resided in Russia. However, if there are concrete points of view that a return to Russia would be contrary to our human rights obligations, the application for asylum must nevertheless be dealt with in reality in Norway.» For the Workers' Party, it is essential that asylum seekers are not returned in breach of our international obligations. We have to bear in mind that the Council of State's information that this is not happening is correct, and we want to point out that it is the government's responsibility that Norway properly adheres to the international conventions to which we have committed ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2642	First of all, I will give honor to the Council of State. In these cases, the Council of State has proved to be decisive in meeting the proposals of the majority of the population and the recordings made in relation to the comparisons that have been made here in the autumn. 161 out of 169 representatives in this room have been behind the tightening up proposals that have been put forward in this field — restrictions that have been very important to get control of the situation that Norway stood up in the autumn. In this context, the Council of State has today shown that the persons currently being sent are persons who have either a multi-visa or a residence permit in Russia. Then it is quite natural that these persons should be returned. If this will question the correctness, it will have a pull effect, i.e. that it will contribute and contribute to the resumption of refugee flows over the Great Forest. Now it is important that the Stortinge supports the decisions that the Stortinge have actually taken. As far as international law is concerned, the Council of State has just pointed out that there are people, whom I have just had, who have a multi-visa or residence permit. The Progress Party has full confidence that the Council of State in this matter is doing the right thing. It's important that we send the signals that we're doing. It is important that we take action to show that we have control of the situation and that we should also have it in the future. The answer given by the Council of State here is adequate for the Progress Party, and it is right to continue this practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2649	The influx of asylum seekers in the autumn of 2015 struck all records. In total, 30 000 asylum seekers came to Norway last year. There are more than three times as many as it was supposed to come, and the large majority came in the last half of the year. There opened up a new fluctrate over Storskog, and at one point there were 120 refugees per day across this border. Such a situation meant that our entire reception system was in crisis. For this reason, it was also essential that a broad majority of the Stortinget in November agreed so quickly on restrictions in the Foreign Affairs Act in order to deal with the situation over Storskog. The handles taken by the government have worked. The result has been both that the situation has become manageable and that those who need protection get it. In order to protect those who need it, it is important that those who do not need protection in Norway be returned. Norway will make use of the possibilities of return resulting from Dublin cooperation and bilateral agreements, including the readmission agreement with Russia. The key condition for returning a person is whether he or she is at risk of being subjected to persecution, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. This condition must also be fulfilled after the legislative changes. It is also true that if there are concrete points of view that return to Russia would be contrary to our human rights obligations in respect of return, then the asylum application must nevertheless be dealt with in reality in Norway. Finally, I would like to say that although we see clear effects of the mitigation measures, the legislative changes need to be evaluated. The changes are temporary for two years, before we in Stortinget decide again whether they have worked in line with the objective. It's important that those who need protection get it. At the same time, we have to find the balance sheet that makes it not necessarily many.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2660	In the spontaneous Question Time on Wednesday, the Christian People's Party with Prime Minister Erna Solberg addressed this with this instruction to the UDI on the deployment of asylum seekers who have arrived in Norway from Russia. The background was both legal and media response that this could be contrary to the Refugee Convention. It has caused internal unrest in the UDI, Amnesty, the Norwegian Helsinki Committee and the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation, claiming that the changes in the legislation could be contrary to the right to apply for asylum, and thus contrary to Norway’s international obligations. This concerns the Christian People's Party. If that were true, it would be contrary to the premise that the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the tightening up of the foreign regulations in the autumn. It has been a fundamental and clear premise throughout that tightening and practice of the instructions should not conflict with Norway’s international obligations. It's a bottom plank. However, the Christian People's Party agreed on the need to put in place measures to control the influx, and we contributed to it. We also agreed to return to Russia by persons who do not need protection because they have longer residence permits or citizenship in Russia, or possibly a renewable permit. Don't worry about it. But now we are looking at the practice of the new instruction, and we are concerned if it leads to asylum seekers being sent out of the country without individual assessment if they have used Russia as a transit country. They've done that instead of risking their lives, their families and children in the Mediterranean. This applies both to those who have a transit visa and to several of those who have a multi-entry visa. Norway cannot send out persons who are at risk of being sent on to areas where they are at risk of persecution. It is the asylum institution's basic idea, and it is a international responsibility for Norway to ensure that it does not. Russia was sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights in October last year for violating the right to asylum, and they have done so a lot. UNHCR, i.e. the Commissioner for Refugees, has also reported on several returns from Russia to Syria, as also UDI Landinfo reports on asylum treatment in Russia. There is therefore good reason to ask these questions. The critical warnings that Norway now receives from the legal team, from the United Nations system and from other human rights teams make the Christian People's Party feel that it is necessary for the government to ensure that the practice of the instruction is what we all thought, that is, in line with Norway's international obligations, and that any doubt about it is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2673	The centre part, like many other batches, ends with the narrowing of Prop. 16 L for 2015–2016, followed up by the Ministry of Justice’s changes to the foreign policy. The changes have been made in order to meet the exceptional situation of massive instigation of asylum seekers over Storskog, where it appeared that very many had residence permits in Russia and therefore do not fulfil the requirement for protection under the Foreign Law and international agreements by Norway are required. The centre party supports the restrictions on foreign law, because it was quite necessary to control the situation of Storskog. We know that the asylum stream this road has stopped. Through the decisions taken, the Centre Party has not accepted the rejection of asylum seekers who are in real need of protection. Nor is the reason for the Stortinget’s decisions. It is the government that is responsible for the practice of the law of the Stortinget, which is in line with the constitutions and obligations of Norway in relation to international law and conventions. This is a clear premise for the support of the Centre Party. The Rapid Prop. 16 L was followed up by a decision that the legislative changes made should be evaluated. This is necessary to ensure that our legislation is capable of meeting our obligations relating to the right of asylum. The central section believes that the contractions were necessary. The government is responsible for ensuring that the law and its design are consistent with the obligations of Norway. We assume that the government takes that responsibility, and that the heads of state and government are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2685	I think it's good that we have a big deal that can throw around and make decisions when we get such challenges on us. However, I would like to point out that one must also be more cautious, then one must also be more responsive, because that is a reason why we have over time developed the thorough, good procedures we have in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we be responsive and listen more to organisations’ objections when we take urgent decisions than after thorough consultations and public debate. The left voted under that case against instructing UNE. The reason was that UNE is the judicial authority to ensure that we do not break any other law passed in the Grand Duchy, with the Constitution and with the international conventions we are in favour of. That is why we were very critical that an urgent decision was taken and that we were also open to review the legal authority of our country in the same decision. I'm afraid we've now abdicated the forum that's going to check that we're doing things properly, while at the same time we've made a rapid treatment procedure, which we can't be sure of following the international conventions that we're actually going to follow. It is a great responsibility on the Council of States, which must be able to assure us that we do not send people back to persecution and war or break any of the international conventions. She must also be able to promise us that we will not be judged for it in any forum. I'm in order to have a big deal that can throw itself around and make a grip when something challenges us, but when we set aside both hearings and decision-making procedures and the courts we've created to control them, we're getting old with a lot of important values in Norwegian society at the same time. The left supports the fact that those who have spent a long time in Russia should be able to return to Russia, but we must also admit that Russia is not the country that holds human rights highest. The left has a sister party in Russia, which is experiencing persecution on many levels. When we see those who are in political opposition in that country fighting for their right to fight politically, it is in a ghastly light that we are now going to send back without the individual assessment that I believe everyone is entitled to based on the rule of law we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2696	The answer from the Council of State was really quite clear. She cannot give any insurance related to what will happen to the people sent out of Norway, and whether there will be someone sent out in breach of our international obligations. All the government has is a hope that Russia has a well-functioning asylum system. The UN says that Russia does not have a functioning asylum system. And if we are to be honest, we who are in this room tonight, we know that Russia does not have a functioning asylum system. Nevertheless, we are going to lend these serious decisions to hope that they are. The council says that people will be sent out to more difficult conditions. That's right, but that's not what worries us. SV supports sending out people who do not need protection. But what all parties should be concerned about is the danger of us sending out people who need protection. These are the guarantees we have not received. Multi-visum, for example, just means that you have a visa for multiple entry, not that you have some kind of residence permit. The reports that have arrived today suggest that one can now also have a refusal to deal with the application in Norway if only a tourist visa has been in transit in Russia for only a few days with it as a transit route. It is also clear from the instructions. Then I would ask the government not to put the responsibility on the UDI, not to assume that the case handlers will give this a thorough treatment when the government itself has asked them not to give these matters a thorough treatment. I would like to ask the parties that took part in the decisions in November to stop saying that the government is responsible – and done with it. The decision has been taken in a totally exceptional manner, without proper comitology, without any comments that could lead to the processes, without consultation and without time to consider alternative proposals. Anyone who has participated has a responsibility for the consequences of those decisions. We have no assurance that the practices currently in place in Norway are safe. We have a hope that it will be safe. I share that hope – I hope the Council of State is right in that. But we don't know what the consequences of the government's policy are, and I think it underlines that that policy is irresponsible and that the decision taken by the Stortinget in November was irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2709	I have just been informed that the urgent letter sent yesterday by lawyer Halvor Frihagen has received his answer, where we have received support from the Human Rights Court, regulation 39, and decided that there is no basis for asking for temporary measures from Norway in the case of a family of asylum seekers. It's okay to clarify. Then I have to say that I have a great deal of understanding that many people want to come to Norway. Norway is a wonderful country to live in. Many want a better life, a better economy and security for their family and future. However, this in itself does not justify a stay in Norway. Conducting a strict and fair immigration policy also means returning those people who do not have the right to protection. It is important that we have the opportunity to accept all those who are entitled to protection, who may be persecuted in the country from which they come and who may be tortured, or who meet the other premises set up by the European Convention on Human Rights. A broad majority in this room saw the need for us to do something to stop the influx that was over Storskog. We saw that there were Russian citizens. We saw that there were people who had been in Russia for years because they wanted a better life in Norway. I understand that, but I also understand that we cannot accept all those who want it. Therefore, the consequence is that we have to return those who do not have the basis for staying in Norway. It's actually important to maintain the asylum institute, which I think everyone in this room is actually concerned about. So it's like neither the government nor the state council are dealing with individual matters. That's the way it has to be. But I have faith that the foreign agencies that are now doing this job are doing it in a proper and good way. It's a prerequisite for us to do this in a good way, and I actually believe that we're doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2016-01-19.ana.ud1389e2718	So this sequence is over. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
